                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 34061

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                     (PPFI-P6350 PPFI-P6351 PPFI-P6352 IDA-28110)

                                        ON A

                                       CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 77.1 MILLION (US$115.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF KENYA

                                      FOR THE

                   URBAN TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT




                                  December 28, 2005




Water and Urban 1
Kenya Country Department
Africa Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective December 21, 2005)

                             Currency Unit = Kenyan Shillings (Ksh)
                                      Ksh 1 = US$ 0.01
                                     US$ 1 = Ksh 72.70

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                   July 1    June 30

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CSC            Construction Supervision and Engineering Design
CTA            Chief Technical Advisor
DARE           Decentralized HIV/AIDS and Reproductive Health Project
EIRR           Economic Internal Rate of Return
ENEP           El Nino Project
IFMS           Integrated Financial Management System
KACC           Kenyan Anti-Corruption Commission
KLGRP          Kenya Local Government Reform Program
KPIs           Key Performance Indicators
KRB            Kenya Roads Board
LAs            Local Authorities
LASDAP         Local Authorities Service Delivery Action Plan
LATF           Local Authorities Transfer Fund
MMWI           Maintenance Management and Works Inspectorate
NMT            non-motorized transport facilities
PDO            Project Development Objective
PSM-TAP        Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
RMLF           Road Maintenance Fuel Levy Fund
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SBP            Single Business Permit
SSATP          Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Program
TMU            Traffic Management Unit
UDD            Urban Development Department
WMS            Works Management System

                            Vice President:      Gobind T. Nankani
                         Country Director:       Colin Bruce
                          Sector Manager:        Jaime M. Biderman
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Lance Morrell

                                               KENYA
                     URBAN TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            18
   6. Sustainability                                                                19
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               24
   9. Partner Comments                                                              25
   10. Additional Information                                                       25
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             40
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             45
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             47
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                48
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            49
   Annex 8. Review of the costs of urban road works in Kenya                        50
   Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution                                                 52



MAP

IBRD No. 26340

Project ID: P001319                                                  Project Name: KE-Urb Transp (FY96)
Team Leader: Lance Morrell                                           TL Unit: AFTU1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: KE-Urb Transp (FY96)                                     L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P6350; PPFI-P6351;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P6352; IDA-28110
   Country/Department: KENYA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (74%); Central government administration (15%); Sub-national
                            government administration (11%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Access to urban services and housing (P); Municipal governance
                            and institution building (S); Other financial and private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/15/1989                                     Effective: 05/13/1996                06/27/1996
     Appraisal: 05/07/1993                                         MTR: 03/31/1999                  02/19/2000
      Approval: 01/30/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Director:               Colin Bruce                                    Francis Colaco
Sector Manager:                 Jaime M. Biderman                              Stephen J. Weissman
Team Leader at ICR:             Lance Morrell                                  Gautam Sengupta
ICR Primary Author:             Rowena J. Martinez; James N.
                                Karuiru


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Due to unusual nature of this project; the ICR is longer than would normally be the case.

The Project Development Objective (PDO) in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was two fold. It was to:

      (i)    increase the economic efficiency of the urban road network in the project towns; and

      (ii)   build sustainable road maintenance capacity - institutional, financial, and engineering - of the
             project towns and Ministry of Local Government through a program of municipal reform.

The PDO was further elaborated in the Development Credit Agreement to include a third PDO which is to
target investments to benefit the urban poor. Towards this end, the project is geared to support a program
of high priority investments and a parallel program of municipal, financial and operational reforms. The
project DOs were clearly defined and reflected country priorities both at the time of appraisal and in
subsequent years. The premise for the DOs was that the main development challenge remained poverty
reduction through accelerated economic growth and employment creation. This was outlined in the GoK's
Development Plan for 1994 ­ 98 and the Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1994 which underscored the theme of
Sustainable Development. The World Bank Country Assistance Strategy supported this premise.
Reforming of Kenya's local authority system was seen as a necessary ingredient of this strategy, given the
economic importance of the towns as centers of agricultural trade, transport and communication services,
manufacturing, construction and government, including national and local government services. The Letter
of Sector Policy recognized the fact that fundamental structural and systematic changes were necessary in
the current local authority system for financing and operating the public services required for continued
economic growth and for their sustainability. As local authorities were part of an integrated system of
national and local institutions that should be working together in pursuit of common objectives, the inability
of councils to meet their share of development responsibilities undermined efforts towards national
economic growth. The need to give priority to the road sub-sector was that inadequate maintenance over the
years and gradual erosion of the public sector capacity to effectively plan, finance and manage basic road
infrastructure had reduced the quality of services in other sub-sectors. The deeper objective of the project
is to use urban roads as a specific sector in which to demonstrate how local authorities can take over the
function of providing and maintaining public services. By demonstrating the effectiveness of such
decentralized public service provision, the hope was that this could lead to a push for broader
decentralization. With that long term vision in mind, this project provided for a broader parallel program of
local government reform to lay the groundwork for deeper reforms in the future.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives of the project were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The following is a list of main project components and related sub-components:

(a) Road and Transport Infrastructure Investments (US$ 118.5 million, 76%, of the original total project
cost of US$155.0 million)

          (i)    Routine road maintenance works of about 2000 km of urban streets in project towns, either
                 by local authority own-forces or by contract, in accordance with a satisfactory program
                 accepted by the Traffic Management Unit in the Ministry of Local Government.




                                                     - 2 -

          (ii)    Periodic road maintenance works of about 400 km of priority paved urban streets in
                  project towns, including bituminous surface, patching and resealing; painting pavement
                  markings; repair of drains, culverts, footpaths and bicycle paths; and maintenance of street
                  lightning and traffic signals.

          (iii)   Road rehabilitation works in all participating towns, on about 400 km of priority paved
                  urban streets, consisting of major paved road-surface and road-base repairs, bituminous
                  pavement sealing, pavement marking, also repair or reconstruction of curbs, sidewalks,
                  drainage structure and facilities, foot-paths and/or bicycle paths, as well as maintenance of
                  street lighting and traffic signals.

          (iv)    Road improvement works, in the primary towns only, of about 75km of priority streets,
                  including construction of strategic missing streets sections, road widening, traffic capacity
                  and safety improvement.

          (v)     Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Program (SSATP) pilot works and investments were
                  targeted to address the issues of mobility of the urban poor through an integrated network
                  approach. The specific non-motorized transport facilities (NMT), included foot paths,
                  cycle paths and footbridges. These were to be implemented as part of the rehabilitation,
                  reconstruction and improvement of road works or as stand alone investments in existing or
                  new NMT facilities. NMT would also include pilot traffic management and infrastructure
                  interventions in Nairobi and Eldoret.

(b) Institutional Capacity Building Program (US$ 14.5 million, 9% of the original total project cost of
US$155.0 million)

          (i)     Maintenance Management and Works Inspectorate (MMWI) ­ to verify the adequacy of
                  routine and periodic maintenance works by local authorities throughout Kenya. The
                  inspectorate will also provide technical assistance to the Local Authorities (LAs) in the
                  field of road maintenance, monitor their performance by regular and systematic inspections
                  and implement a maintenance management system which will assist the LAs in planning
                  their road maintenance.

          (ii)    Maintenance Planning and Contract Management ­ to establish a comprehensive
                  maintenance management system which would include technical reviews of design
                  standards and safety aspects and rigorous contract management systems.

          (iii)   Traffic Management and Coordination ­to provide support in traffic and transport
                  engineering, particularly the identification of implementation of short term traffic
                  management improvements, comprising traffic control improvements, parking, public
                  transport facilities, and road safety measures.

          (iv)    Training and Staff Development ­comprised of fellowships, seminars, workshops, short
                  courses, study tours and on the job training. The participants were to include Traffic
                  Management Unit (TMU) personnel, and local authority officers involved in the project
                  planning and implementation.

          (v)     Road Inventory and Condition Survey ­ to develop a roads inventory and condition data
                  base for all local authority roads for forward planning for maintenance program and


                                                       - 3 -

                budget.

(c) Program and Policy Studies (US$ 0.8 million, 1% of the original total project cost of US$155.0
million)

         (i)    Nairobi Long-term Traffic Management Study ­ was aimed to develop a strategy to
                consider land use and environmental measures, and transport infrastructure needs ­
                operational, institutional and legislative.
         (ii)   Mombasa Long-term Investment Study ­ was aimed to formulate a long-term sector
                investment strategy and needs.

(d) Project Implementation Support (US$ 19.7 million, 13% of the original total project cost of US$155.0
million)

         (i)    Construction Supervision and Engineering Design ­ to support the TMU in the preparation
                of the documentation, the bidding process and the management and quality control of civil
                works construction contracts.

         (ii)   Financial Compliance and Audit Support ­ to annually verify financial and physical
                compliance with credit conditions of works for which expenditures are incurred under the
                project.

         (iii)  Establishment of an up-to-date information technology system commensurate with project
                planning and management requirements.

         (iv)   Implementation of maintenance management, planning and monitoring activities in all
                urban centers, through expanded use of maintenance management and works inspectorate
                functions.

         (v)    Establishment of non-motorized transport planning and implementation units in TMU and
                selected project towns.

(e) Future Project Preparation Support (US$ 1.5 million, 1% of the original total project cost of US$155.0
million)

          Technical assistance to MoLG through studies, design and implementation arrangements for
          defining a municipal investment program covering other basic infrastructure and pilot
          demonstrations projects aimed at improving maintenance and investment planning, resource
          mobilization, and expenditure management.

Assessment of Components

Broadly, the components were identified to meet the objectives of the project, although some of the
indicators necessary to fully evaluate these objectives were lacking. The project was designed with the
primary objective to improve urban transport infrastructure management and its efficiency, with particular
emphasis on maintenance. The needs and concerns for the urban poor were considered through specific
project design and selection criteria. Overall, the design was effective but could have included more
emphasis on the institutional and policy reform outcomes of the Kenya Local Government Reform
Program, M&E and social impact assessment for the project.


                                                      - 4 -

Component (a) Road and Transport Infrastructure Investments Program: This took the major share of the
project, was well planned and designed, including appropriately defined work plans, outputs and
performance indicators, and procurement procedures. Four of the six sub-components, namely, periodic
maintenance works, rehabilitation works, improvements and pilot investments in non-motorized facilities
were packaged into 21 packages. Most of the preparatory work had already been done for the
sub-components and the remainder were to be completed in the early stages of the project. The project
design had several elements to build the required maintenance capacity for urban roads: (a) enhancing the
institutional capacity of the local authorities (to plan for and manage road maintenance); (b) channeling the
funds allocated for this purpose from the Road Maintenance Fuel Levy Fund (RMLF); and (c) adopting a
two phase implementation plan to introduce positive incentives for local authorities to perform (i.e. only
those local authorities meeting certain performance standards would be eligible for further support from
IDA in the second phase of the project). However, due to delays in project implementation, which resulted
in an increase in the costs, the two phase implementation plan which was part of the original design was no
longer possible.

Component (b) Institutional Capacity Building Program: was well planned with well defined component
objectives, terms of reference, scope of works, budget, performance review guidelines and outputs, and
schedule. For the training sub-component, the types of training that were to meet the objectives were also
defined.

Component (c) Program and policy studies: was well planned with well defined component objectives,
terms of reference, scope of works, budget, performance review guidelines and outputs and schedule. The
idea of developing a master plan and investment program for roads, with full supporting financial/economic
rationale, was very noble as this would have formed a basis for future prioritized investments in Nairobi
and Mombasa and the other major urban centers.

Component (d) Project Implementation Support: was well planned with well defined component objectives,
terms of reference, scope of works, personnel to be provided, time schedule, reports and documents,
budget, selection and appointment time table, performance review guidelines, and outputs and schedule.

Component (e) Future Project Preparation Support: Although the specific activities to be included in this
component were not identified during project preparation, it formed a base for carrying out studies and
providing support to the TMU to define a future municipal investment program covering other basic
infrastructural services.

Key performance indicators (KPIs) were developed and these were to be applied in measuring the quality of
the project implementation. Since the project was designed before the introduction of the outcome/impact
indicators in the late 1990s, the KPIs were revised during the mid term review. The revised KPIs are
shown in Annex 1.

3.4 Revised Components:

Although, the components were not formally revised, some of the road activities under Component 1 were
transferred to the El Nino Project (ENEP) as detailed in paragraph 4.2.2.1 (a) in response to Government's
request. In addition, during the midterm review it was noted that due to the time that had elapsed between
the appraisal and the credit effectiveness and the time the contracts were awarded, the actual road
conditions had changed considerably necessitating changes in the scope of works. Roads that initially were
targeted for recarpeting required rehabilitation, and those that required rehabilitation now required



                                                       - 5 -

reconstruction. Due to the increased cost implications, this meant a reduction in the overall scope of work
in terms of the roads to be rehabilitated, reconstructed and /or improved as well as a reprioritization of key
activities, since not all of the activities previously envisaged could now be accommodated with the available
funds.

Amendments were made to the DCA during the life of the project:

         (i)     Reallocation of funds under the project to finance emergency repairs and rehabilitation to
                 infrastructure damaged by the El Nino floods;
         (ii)    Change of implementing agency from TMU (MoLG) to ENEP Management Unit for those
                 road activities transferred from KUTIP to ENEP;
         (iii)   Provision for financing of microprojects not initially included in the DCA;
         (iv)    Two extensions of the project's closing date; and
         (v)     Provision of forensic audit fees for MoLG not initially included in the DCA.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no formal assessment of quality at entry by QAG since the project predated QAG. (Although
once QAG came into existence, it evaluated the quality of supervision and also commented, retrospectively
and favorably, on the quality at entry - see Section 7.2). At the time of project preparation in 1993,
Kenya's economy was deteriorating and there was a sharp decline in public investment in essential
infrastructure. To arrest and reverse the economic decline, GOK launched an economic recovery program
in 1993, embodied in the Policy Framework Paper for 1994-96. The project was fully consistent with the
Government's development objectives as well as the Bank's country and sector assistance strategy.
Improving the urban road network would support the government's objective of directing public
expenditures to improving basic services to the poor, as well as other road users, thus also benefiting the
economy through improving infrastructure to promote growth of private sector activities and encourage
private investment. The project was part of the first phase of a much larger GOK program of urban road
improvements, including maintenance costs. It would promote and encourage a broader government
initiative to fundamentally reform the policy and operational framework of road infrastructure maintenance
throughout Kenya and support the institutional strengthening efforts which this would require.

The design of the project was based on the prevailing performance of the local authorities in the delivery of
services, various studies and other experiences. In 1990, the Bank prepared a Sector Study: Kenya Urban
Transport Development Issues which proposed a program of policy and institutional reforms and
investments for Nairobi and other large towns. The Study identified several issues which needed to be
resolved to improve Kenya's urban transport infrastructure system. One of the main findings was the
urgent need to improve basic maintenance and the strengthening of maintenance management capacity in
the subsector. In addition, the Bank, in collaboration with the government, undertook a comprehensive
review of the local government system particularly finances and the findings are contained in the "Kenya
Local Government Finance Study, Report 8997-KE". This was followed by an initiative to define and
implement the Municipal Reform Program, and this program was launched by the government in March
1993. In the letter of sector policy, the government related how the project would complement the
municipal reform initiatives that were being undertaken. Hence, there was adequate basis to identify
appropriate objectives and corresponding components to meet those objectives.

While interventions on many fronts were required in the subsector, the project was designed to explicitly
address road maintenance and rehabilitation as a priority. Improving maintenance performance and



                                                        - 6 -

addressing the financial and institutional problems surrounding it, were the most critical actions necessary
to solving the urban transport problems in the country. The government recognized that other reform
issues, such as more effective demand management policies, increasing efficiency and improving the
management of public transport entities, while important, were not as urgent as improving maintenance
capacity and instilling maintenance discipline in the local authorities. Component 5 was designed to lay the
groundwork to address broader sector issues, recognizing that these would be difficult to implement in the
short term.

With regard to the Bank's safeguards, the project was a category B and did not identify any significant
adverse environmental impacts. All maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement works under the project
affected existing roads and did not involve any land acquisition or permanent resettlement of people.
Clauses were included in the civil works contracts regarding landscape preservation, prevention of water
pollution, abatement of water pollution, dust abatement, use of pesticides, disposal of waste water
materials, construction site sanitation and safety, traffic safety as well as fire prevention. In addition, an
Environmental Mitigation Plan was agreed with the government. Monitoring of the environmental actions
and responsibilities was included as a specific responsibility for the construction supervision consultants.
Constant monitoring of implementation of mitigation measures by the construction supervision consultants
and the periodic on site inspections by the IDA team ensured that any required environmental safeguards
were complied with. On the Bank side, an environmental engineer was included in the project team to
ensure compliance of the environmental mitigation plan.

On the social impact, there was an intention to target the urban poor particularly through the provision of
NMT facilities, and employment generation. The NMT component was only partially accomplished.
However, the use of the facilities that were provided as part of the rehabilitated/reconstructed roads
indicates heavy use for the facilities, but unfortunately there was no dedicated monitoring of the statistics
on the level of utilization. During the construction of some of the roads, stone hard packing was used and
this is a labor intensive operation.

As the project was prepared in 1993, the mandatory fiduciary assessments were not in place. Under the old
standards, more emphasis was placed on the technical preparation of the project and less emphasis on
fiduciary issues.

Overall, quality at entry was satisfactory.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4. 1.1 Some background to the assessment: As part of a World Bank internal investigation into allegations
of abuse of Consultant Trust Funds, three World Bank staff were terminated and 11 companies were
debarred, when evidence was uncovered that 2 of the 3 Bank staff involved in a separate on-going
investigation involving a Trust Fund case were also involved in a scheme to steal funds from the KUTIP
IDA credit on the Geomaps/Digidata consultancy. That investigation, which concluded in Oct 2001,
revealed sufficient evidence that a scheme existed between the KUTIP TMU Manager and Bank staff to
steal funds from the IDA credit by means of a kickback scam. The two Bank staff pleaded guilty in U.S.
Federal District Court in Feb 13, 2002 and Dec. 17, 2002 respectively, for among other charges,
facilitating bribe payments to a foreign government official, (the TMU Manager of KUTIP).




                                                      - 7 -

As a result of the above investigation, the Bank suspended further disbursements from the KUTIP IDA
credit on October 15, 2001 and made a criminal referral to the Kenya Anti-Corruption Authority the same
day. Among other things, the suspension letter contained a number of conditions for lifting the suspension
one of which was to conduct a forensic audit of the project and to implement the recommendations. The
government in power at the time failed to take action despite repeated communications from the Bank.
When a new government (which had campaigned on a platform of putting an end to official corruption)
took power at the beginning of 2003 it took a number of measures targeting corruption generally and
proved to be much more responsive to the Bank's requests for action on the forensic audit. Consequently,
the government contracted an independent auditor in June 2004 and the auditor's report was issued in
August 2004.

The forensic audit conducted found significant control weakness in the project and also multiple indicators
of fraud and corruption. Perhaps most alarming is that the auditors found credible evidence that all
consulting contracts may have been rigged. This evidence consisted of documentation showing that the
tender committee, TMU Manager and Bank desk officers in the Treasury rigged the award on all
consultancy contracts. Although the auditors believed that the same scheme probably existed on the works
contracts as well, according to the Forensic Audit report they could not find evidence of any irregularities
in the procurement of contractors for civil works. The results of that audit were turned over to the Kenyan
Anti-Corruption Commission (KACC) for investigation. KACC is seeking additional information from the
forensic auditors that would facilitate the compliation of credible evidence to support the prosecution of
those involved. An adequate response from the auditors is pending. Meanwhile the TMU Manager has
been brought to trial, which is ongoing as of this writing.

Due to the extent of the findings from the audit, the Bank decided that it could not lift the suspension of
disbursements, except to compensate the auditor for its work.

4.1.2 For an assessment of the specific objectives, this is as follows:

Objective (i): increase the economic efficiency of the urban road network in the project towns - improve
the conditions of the urban roads which are deteriorating rapidly, through a balanced investment of routine
and periodic maintenance, rehabilitation, improvements, and improved traffic management measures: the
objective was only met to a limited extent as the outputs were drastically reduced during the mid-term
review. Some of the agreed physical activities after mid-term review were implemented fully, while others
were left uncompleted. However, the works undertaken were done to a satisfactory quality level. Both the
Bank credit and GoK resources were utilized in implementing the activities.

Objective (ii): build sustainable road maintenance capacity, institutional, financial, and engineering of the
project towns and Ministry of Local Government through a program of municipal reforms: this objective
has only been partially achieved. A number of local government reforms in the areas of policy and
financial management under the Kenya Local Government Reform Program (KLGRP) have been initiated
and implemented with success. The project has developed and pilot tested routine maintenance planning,
capacity building, and implementation and inspectorate/monitoring systems. However, these initiatives
have not been expanded and tested because of the lack of a critical mass of financial resource flow to the
local governments from RMLF. Consequently, although the building blocks for enhancing routine road
maintenance capacity have been put in place, these initiatives were not fully implemented nor were they
made fully operational and no assessment was made as to whether they would be applicable in the longer
term. In addition, the creation of the Kenya Roads Board (KRB) that manages the RMLF resulted in a
lack of clarity on the role of the LAs in road maintenance activities. An amendment to the KRB's Act in
2000 failed to recognize the LAs as implementing agencies. It was only later in 2003 that selected LAs


                                                     - 8 -

were included in the KRB Act. As a result, the training program that had been prepared for the various
personnel in the LAs was never undertaken.

Objective (iii): targeted investments to benefit the urban poor. This objective was only achieved to a
limited extent, as depicted by the following: (a) all eleven road improvement contracts incorporated cycle
and pedestrian walkways; and in one contract three foot bridges were constructed. A total of 37.49*
kilometers of NMT as detailed in Annex 2 (i) were constructed at a cost of about Ksh 246.03 million
(equivalent US$ 3.28 million, comprising about 10 percent of the overall cost of the works. A self-standing
NMT investment for Nairobi was under preparation but due to the suspension of the credit, it was not
implemented. However, all the road civil works contracts completed under the project had an element of
NMT facilities; (b) the implementation of various micro projects, particularly markets (in Nyeri,
Kakamega and Ahero Towns) have greatly benefited the urban poor, who now can operate from protected
sheds; (c) implementation of the Kenya Local Government Reform Program (KLGRP) has facilitated the
involvement of the residents in the planning process through Local Authorities Service Delivery Action
Plan (LASDAP), a participatory planning approach to increase citizen participation and improve LAs
accountability and responsiveness; and (d) under KLGRP, the increase in the resources available to the
LAs through the Local Authorities Transfer Fund (LATF) which is intended to transfer 5% of the national
income tax to all LAs based on a simple, transparent and accountable formula meant that the poor also
benefited from investments using such resources. However, the initiatives under the KLGRP are in the
initial stages and their impact on the poor has yet to be assessed.

Overall, the objectives of the project were not achieved; nevertheless, in terms of some positive outcomes
the following are noteworthy:

l The improvement of roads like Langata Road from single carriageway to dual carriageway, have
     greatly improved the traffic flow on the road. Also, the frustrations experienced by motorists due to
     illegal overtaking and the keeping of traffic police on this section of road to curb the menace have been
     minimized. Overall, the improvement of the roads in other towns has improved the riding condition of
     the roads leading to savings in vehicle operating costs and time. The benefits of all these road
     improvements are reflected in the relatively high economic rate of return (see section 4.3).

l The construction of the bridge over the railway line on Jogoo Road has eliminated accidents that were
     frequent on this section.

l Drainage improvement has meant that there is no stagnant water on the roads and also in the drains.
     Particularly for the latter, there is a reduction of breeding areas for mosquitoes. In addition, improved
     drainage has reduced the maintenance of the both the drains and the carriageway.

l With respect to NMT facilities some positive outcomes have been as follows:


           -   The GoK now takes into consideration the provision of these facilities during new designs,
               and reconstructions of roads or as stand alone facilities.
           -   The construction of footpaths and cycle paths (and foot bridges) has separated the vehicular
               and pedestrian traffic and enhanced road safety. In addition, it has improved the comfort of
               the pedestrians and cyclists, particularly during the rainy season.
           -   The cyclists and particularly the boda boda which are very prevalent in the towns of
               Kakamega, Busia and Bungoma can now make more trips than they would have otherwise
               made.
           -   Since the trips are for commercial purposes the cyclists can now generate more income for


                                                        - 9 -

                 themselves.

l Rehabilitation, reconstruction and improvement of the roads have increased the percentage of roads in
    good condition in the respective towns.

l The introduction of the LATF enhanced and increased the resources available to local authorities. The
    resources account for about 25% of the total resources available to the LAs.

l The introduction of the Single Business Permit (SBP) has meant that the business community spends
    less time in acquiring a business license. Previously, there were several players involved in the
    issuance of the business license.

l The construction of markets under the micro projects has created shelters that are comfortable to
    operate from as they are protected from the sun and rain.

* The figure includes only works that were 100% complete. It does not include works done in Meru, Embu, and Muranga which were partially
completed. It also does not include the works planned for Nairobi which were never done.


4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1 The original anticipated outputs at the start of the project compared to the outputs of the project at
the closing date are summarized by component in the table below.

  Part Component Description                       Planned Output                                  Actual Output                         Rating


a)       Road and Transport                - Routine maintenance, 2,775 - Funds were disbursed for routine maintenance                    U
         Infrastructure                    km. Revised to 2,000 km at           except in one financial year. The LAs carried out
         Investments (US$118.5             mid-term review                      the required maintenance done on 1,200 km
         million SAR; US$128.3             - Periodic maintenance - 400 - Actual periodic maintenance 185 km
         million actual)                   km of roads. Revised during
                                           mid-term review to 199 km
                                           - Rehabilitation of 400 km of - Actual rehabilitation/improvement 138 km
                                           roads. This was revised
                                           during mid-term review to 90
                                           km
                                           - Improvement of 75 km of
                                           roads. This was revised
                                           during mid-term review to 55
                                           km
                                           - Activities targeted to             - Non-motorized facilities - 37.49 km of footpaths
                                           mobility of urban poor               and cycle paths, and three foot bridges undertaken
                                                                                as part of the road works contracts.
                                           - Traffic Management                 - Only the draft bid documents for traffic
                                           Infrastructure                       management infrastructure had been prepared by
                                                                                the time of Credit suspension




                                                                   - 10 -

b)      Institutional Capacity    - Consultancy for              - A Consultant for MMWI was employed and his        U
        Building (US$14.5         Maintenance Management and performance was satisfactory. However, there was
        million SAR; US$11.7      Works Inspectorate             not adequate time to widely operationalize the
        million actual)           - Consultancy for              developed pilot maintenance systems.
                                  Maintenance Planning and       - A Consultant, Chief Technical Advisor (CTA),
                                  Procurement Management         was employed and their performance was
                                  - Provision of Support on      satisfactory.
                                  Traffic Management and Co- - Traffic Management and coordination support
                                  ordination                     was provided under the CTA.
                                  - Training and Staff           - Staff attended various courses and seminars,
                                  Development                    although the allocation was only 16.9% spent.
                                  - Mapping-Road Inventory       - The mapping consultancy had completed 95% of
                                  and Condition Survey           the mapping. The TMU had not finalized the
                                                                 review of the output from the consultant by the
                                                                 closing date.

c)      Program and Policy        - Undertaking of Nairobi       - Out of the proposed three stages of the NBI       U
        Studies (US$0.8 million Long-Term Transport Study        study only Stage I was undertaken and the final
        SAR; US$0.3 million       - Undertaking of Mombasa       report was not acceptable to the Borrower.
        actual)                   Transport Investment Study     - The Mombasa Study was not undertaken at all.


d)      Project Implementation    - Employment of                - CSCs were employed and their performance was      U
        Support (US$19.7          Construction Supervision       satisfactory
        million SAR; US$11.7      Consultants to support TMU     - External audit was carried out by the Controller
        million actual)           in engineering design and      and Auditor General whose reports were submitted
                                  construction supervision       late most of the time and mainly qualified. A
                                  - External Auditor for         forensic audit of the project was carried and the
                                  financial compliance and audit recommendations were to be used in the
                                  support                        formulation of future projects
                                  - Consultancy to provide       - The consultancy of Information Technology was
                                  information technology         terminated after the consultant failed to perform
                                  - Incremental operational
                                  costs

e)      Future Project            - Technical assistance to      - Four studies undertaken and completed             U
        Preparation (US$1.5       MoLG through studies           - Some key KLGRP policy initiatives developed
        million SAR; US$4.8                                      and implemented.
        million actual)                                          - Due to suspension, follow up project was not
                                                                 anticipated.



4.2.2. The details of outputs are provided below.

4.2.2.1 (a) Road and Transport Infrastructure Investments (SAR US118.5 million; ICR US$128.3 million):

(i) Routine Maintenance ­Under the Project Agreement, the GoK was expected to disburse funds to the
local authorities for the maintenance of these roads. A summary of the road network in each project local
authority is attached as Annex (f). The total road network is 4,727.3 km composed of 2,357.9 km of paved
roads and 2,369.4 km of unpaved roads. About 67% of these roads were in poor condition. During the
period 1999/2000 to 2004/05, the GoK disbursed Ksh 1.47 billion (equivalent US$ 19.66 million) to the



                                                      - 11 -

project LAs compared to the US$ 27.33 million estimated at appraisal. The details on the disbursement of
the road maintenance funds for maintenance are summarized in Annex 2(e). The assessment by the
Maintenance Management Works Inspectorate consultant was that the LAs carried out the required
maintenance with the allocated funds. During 1999/2000 and 2000/01 it was recorded that the LAs
maintained about 800 km and 1200 km respectively. The assessment of the consultant is that the LAs
could comfortably maintain 1200 km per year with the available funds.

(ii) Periodic Maintenance; (iii) Rehabilitation Works; and (iv) Improvements: These were the major
sub-components of the project and took the center stage of the operations of the TMU. The road works
were divided into 21 Packages which were all advertised for prequalification as shown in Annex (g).
However, there was a delay of two years in doing the prequalification evaluation after the documents were
received. Subsequently, the applicants were requested to update their information but this approach had
the disadvantage of not tapping any potential contracting firms that may have wished to apply at the
prequalification stage. The delays may have been due to lack of internal controls and slow procurement
processes within the Ministry of Local Government. Thus, GOK found it necessary to repackage and
implement the 21 contracts under three arrangements (i) Transport Management Unit (TMU); El Nino
Emergency Project (ENEP); and (iii) Urban Development Department (UDD) of MoLG. The details for
the outputs under each arrangement are given in Annexes 2 (h), 2 (k), and 2 (l). Of the eleven contracts
implemented by the TMU, six contracts were completed, three contracts were 94%-99% complete, and two
contracts were 62%-65% complete. All eight contracts that were transferred to ENEP were completed on
time. The remaining two packages were never implemented due to the suspension of the credit.

The target kilometers for (a) periodic maintenance were 399 km; (b) rehabilitation works were 400 km; and
(c) improvement were 75 km, a total of 874 km. During mid-term review in April 2000, the targets were
revised as from 874 km to 323 km. At ICR, the total output under the three implementation arrangements:
TMU, ENEP and UDD were 437.7 km. Based on the revised planned outputs, the project achieved the
target. In addition, MoLG rehabilitated about 295 kilometers of urban roads financed under the Road
Maintenance Fuel Levy funds and 73 km of urban roads under the El Nino project.

(v) SSATP Pilot Works and Investments in non-motorized transport facilities. All eleven road
improvement contracts incorporated cycle and pedestrian walkways and in one contract three foot bridges
were constructed. A total of 37.49 kilometers as detailed in Annex 2 (i) were constructed at a cost of about
Ksh 246.03 million (equivalent US$ 3.28 million, comprising about 10 percent of the overall cost of the
works. The design of a stand alone NMT investment for Nairobi was completed but the procurement of the
works was affected by the suspension of the Credit. One outcome of the implementation of the NMT
facilities under the project is that the GoK now takes into consideration the provision of these facilities
during new designs, and reconstructions of roads or as stand alone facilities.

(vi) Nairobi Traffic Management Infrastructure ­ At the time of Credit suspension, the bid document had
been completed and was in the final stages of review by the Bank. The works were therefore not
implemented.

4.2.2. 1 (b) Institutional Capacity Building (SAR US$14.5 million; ICR US$11.7 million):

       (i)    Maintenance Management and Works Inspectorate (MMWI) ­ The MMWI teams assisted
              the project towns and the MoLG with planning and implementing road maintenance, and with
              liaison, administration and monitoring of the Road Maintenance Fuel Levy funds that were
              issued to the project towns for maintenance. Specific outputs included:
                      ·    Evaluation of the maintenance capacity of the local authorities;


                                                    - 12 -

             ·    Development of a database for proper documentation of the road network;
             ·    Development of road condition assessment procedures;
             ·    Establishment of service level standards;
             ·    Improvement of work scheduling and budgeting procedures;
             ·    Improvement and standardization of quality and quantity control standards; and
             ·    Development of a computerized Maintenance Management System.

(ii)  Maintenance Planning and Procurement Management (acronym Chief Technical Advisor
      (CTA) - The CTA provided, on full time basis, a team leader, two Contract Management
      Specialists, and a Quality Control Manager. Specialists in the computerized contract
      management system, traffic management and urban traffic control systems were involved on
      short ­term assignments. Areas of assistance to the TMU included:
             ·    contract management, procurement management, quality control of construction
                  and maintenance and other project management aspects;
             ·    Preparation of a set of comprehensive guidelines for the design of urban roads that
                  are appropriate to the financing and maintenance capability of the local authorities
                  in Kenya;
             ·    Development of a maintenance management system with special emphasis on
                  planning, programming and budgeting aspects;
             ·    formulating transport policies for major towns in Kenya with respect to travel
                  demand management, public transport planning and control, road safety
                  management and environmental management; and
             ·    preparing operational traffic management policies and techniques in traffic
                  control, parking, public transport priority, road safety studies, signals and
                  measures and non-motorized transport.

(iii) Traffic Management and Coordination ­ This activity was undertaken under the Maintenance
      Planning and Procurement Management consultancy and covered the relevant issues including
      traffic and transport engineering, identification of short term traffic management
      improvements such as traffic control improvements, parking, public transport facilities, and
      road safety measures.

(iv)  Training and Staff Development ­ Initially, emphasis was given to training comprising of
      fellowships, seminars, workshops, short courses, study tours and on the job training for TMU
      personnel, and local authority officers. Most of the seminars and workshops were held under
      the auspices of the Kenya Local Government Reform Program mainly to sensitize the local
      authorities' staff on the new reforms. In terms of training, 29 officers from MoLG and TMU
      attended various courses relating to areas such as procurement, financial management, human
      resource management, road maintenance, development finance, project management, and
      fiscal decentralization. The training program for officers from the local authorities could not
      be implemented due to the suspension of the credit.

(v)   Mapping ­ Phase I of the work covered an area of 500 km2 in the 26 project towns and was
      substantially completed to about 95% by April 2000. This included 100% of the aerial
      photography ground control surveys and digital mapping and more than 90% of road
      inventory field work and editing of maps. Final map production is about 70% complete. A
      Phase II of the exercise was procured midway into the project and the aim was to cover an
      additional of 650 km2 in the four main regional centers of Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu and



                                             - 13 -

             Eldoret in order to ensure more complete digital maps for these four regional centers. Work
             on this phase was begun in late November 1999. The expected completion date for this
             assignment was anticipated to be November 2001. Although the consultant delivered the draft
             outputs for review, the TMU never completed this review, hence deferring the production of
             the final documents. This may be due to lack of follow up in the Ministry of Local
             Government.

4.2.2.1 (c) Program and Policy Studies (SAR US$ 0.8 million; ICR US$ 0.3 million)

     (i)     Nairobi Long-term Traffic Management Study ­ Only the first stage of three stages of this
             study was undertaken, but the final report was never accepted by the government and the
             consultant was not paid 10% of the contract price. With the failure to successfully complete
             the Stage 1 of Phase I of the study, Stages 2 and 3 of Phase I and Phase II were never
             pursued.

     (ii)    Mombasa Long-term Investment Study ­ this study was not undertaken.

4.2.2.1 (d) Project Implementation Support (SAR US$ 19.7 million; ICR US$ 11.7 million):

     (i)     Construction Supervision and Engineering Design (CSC) ­ the procurement of the consultants
             was undertaken early in the project. The CSCs' responsibilities included preparation of
             bidding documents, assisting the TMU in the bidding process and carefully monitoring the
             contractors' performance in terms of on-schedule delivery of work of the requisite quality and
             within the available budget, carrying out design improvements, measurements of works done,
             process contractors payments, monitoring of environmental aspects of works and preparation
             of works progress reports. The CSCs performance was satisfactory. Even with the
             suspension of disbursements and non payment of outstanding fees, the CSCs have always
             been willing to carry out some services including final measurements and providing
             information during ongoing arbitration and court cases with the contractors' claims.

     (ii)    Financial Compliance and Audit Support ­ Internal audit of the KUTIP expenditures was
             carried out by an auditor in the MoLG headquarters. External audits were carried out by the
             Controller and Auditor General. Although the financial statements were submitted on time,
             there were delays in getting the C&AG audit reports. It is on record in the supervision aide
             memoires that IDA noted a number of weaknesses in the financial management system,
             including poor record keeping, internal control weaknesses and lack of compliance with
             established procedures. Submission of audited project financial statements lagged behind the
             set submission due dates in contravention to financial covenants in the DCA. In addition, all
             Project Account audits were qualified, an indication of deficiencies in the ability of the
             implementing agency to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect the operations,
             resources, and expenditure in respect of the project. Response to audit queries by the
             implementing ministry was less than satisfactory as no follow up actions were taken to
             address the deficiencies highlighted in the audit reports. The MoLG made key personnel
             changes in the Accounting Section, but this did not change the situation.

             KUTIP was suspended in October 2001 due to identified mismanagement of the resources. As
             a result of the suspension, the GoK was requested to take actions that would lead to the lifting
             of the suspension. The action of choice was the undertaking of a forensic audit of the project.
             The ToR of the audit required that the consultant report on:


                                                    - 14 -

                    ·    The fiduciary aspects of KUTIP: this included identifying any fraudulent and
                         corrupt practices in KUTIP, including corruption, bribery, kick backs,
                         mismanagement and fraud;
                    ·    Control weaknesses: this included reviewing the effectiveness of the GoK's
                         oversight, the procurement processes, project management and project
                         supervision, quality control processes, internal control measures and risk
                         management; and
                    ·    For both of the above, provide practical recommendations for the GoK remedy the
                         situation and minimize the risk of further occurrences.

             The forensic audit was completed in October 2004 and the final report presented to the
             Minister of Local Government. The auditors provided in their report key recommendations
             based on the following observations:

                    ·    There were many red flags indicating the potential existence of fraud and
                         corruption;
                    ·    the procurement of consultants was irregular and was fraudulently reported to the
                         World Bank;
                    ·    the procurement process did not necessarily achieve value for money;
                    ·    project management suffered because of an over concentration of power;
                    ·    project supervision did not aim to avoid claims;
                    ·    inspections indicated that the roads were built to specifications, although no
                         maintenance had taken place on them since they were completed;
                    ·    Contracts were adequately supervised and contractors were held accountable to
                         the terms of their contracts and to the quality standards specified;
                    ·    GoK oversight on KUTIP was weak and did not adequately address the critical
                         governance issues;
                    ·    internal control system was grossly inadequate and was not able to mitigate the
                         risks faced by KUTIP; and
                    ·     there was no proper management of the major risks facing KUTIP.

             As a result of the KUTIP forensic audit, the GoK requested the World Bank's assistance to
             carry out forensic audits in selected projects in the IDA Kenya portfolio and that these audits
             were funded using KUTIP funds. The three projects selected were Public Sector Management
             Technical Assistance Project (PSM-TAP), Decentralized HIV/AIDS and Reproductive Health
             Project (DARE), and KHADREP. These forensic audits were substantially completed on June
             30, 2005, and their results and recommendations are being followed up separately and
             vigorously by Government and the World Bank.

      (iii)  Information Technology ­ A consultancy under the Works Management System (WMS)
             contract was procured with a commencement in July 1999. Due to non performance of the
             consultant, the contract was terminated in May 2000.

4.2.2.1 (e) Future Project Preparation Support (SAR US$ 1.5 million; ICR US$ 4.8 million):

This component consisted of the Kenya Local Government Reform Program (KLGRP). The KLGRP is
aimed at being a reform instrument to improve governance, efficiency, accountability, and transparency at
the local government level. Four studies were undertaken to support the MoLG in defining a municipal



                                                     - 15 -

investment program covering other basic infrastructure: (i) resource mobilization and physical
management study; (ii) intergovernmental financial relationship; (iii) design and implementation of a
simplified accounting system; and (iv) infrastructure needs assessment and stakeholders' participation. The
project also provided technical assistance to the KLGRP Technical Secretariat towards its formulation of
various reforms. Based on this and government support, a number of local government reforms have been
initiated and implemented with success. These are as follows:

       (i)    Introduction of Single Bus Permit (SBP) to enhance local resource mobilization. The SBP
              policy requires that a local authority and the business community consult an appropriate fee
              schedule to be applied. The fee schedules are pre-approved by the Minister of Local
              Government and the LA only needs to select and adopt an appropriate fee, gazette it, and
              inform the ministry on its decision. This maybe eliminated based on recommendations of a
              Tax Reform Task Force.
       (ii)   Establishment of the Local Authorities Transfer Fund (LATF) as a grant system to local
              authorities. This mechanism transfers financial resources to the LAs and provides incentives
              to improve local service delivery, financial management and debt resolution. Currently the
              LATF constitutes 5% of national income tax, and is distributed to all LAs based on a simple,
              transparent and accountable formula. The LATF Act requires that an annual report detailing
              funds disbursements and activities be prepared annually. World Bank Country Office has
              been receiving a copy of the report once it is issued. One of the challenges of the LATF is to
              ensure effective use of the funds. The government needs to put in place a monitoring
              mechanism to ensure that the funds are used for the purposes identified in the budget
              submissions.
       (iii)  Introduction of Local Authorities Service Delivery Action Plan (LASDAP). This is a
              participatory planning approach which was introduced in 2002 in order to increase citizen
              participation and improve LAs' accountability and responsiveness and was linked to LATF.
       (iv)   Development of a computer-assisted Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS)
              which is now operational in selected local authorities aimed at improving the financial
              management and accountability of the local authorities. Currently all property rates, single
              business permit, and water supply accounting (where applicable) are managed with assistance
              of the system.

An infrastructure needs assessment and stakeholders' participation study, about SDR 1.0 million SDR
(US$ 1.37 million) was completed to finance the implementation of small interventions (micro-projects) in
support of the stakeholder participation process. The objectives of these micro-projects were to: (i) provide
immediate assistance to selected LAs in improving the delivery of basic services; (ii) develop and test
methodologies and procedures that can be replicated and applied in project implementation partnerships;
and (iii) determine the commitment of the local authorities to participate in the reform process and that of
the central government in reforming the local government system. Eleven pilot local authorities were
selected to participate in the process. The LAs were to identify appropriate projects - each having a funding
cap of KSh 6 million. Two categories of micro-projects were considered. Category A - projects involving
construction of works and/or purchase of equipment for use in the improvement of infrastructure such as
roads, water supply, sewage disposal, refuse collection, markets, bus parks, etc. Category B - projects
involving purchase of office equipment, computer hardware and software and/or training of personnel for
use in the strengthening of the efficiency and effectiveness of delivery of local services particularly those
related to the operations and maintenance of basic infrastructure.

The implementation of the micro projects was very slow. At the time of the credit suspension, fourteen
micro-projects had been agreed to as detailed in Annex 2 (j). Four projects were completed; four contracts


                                                     - 16 -

were terminated due to the suspension of the credit. The government using its own resources for
development has re-tendered three of the micro projects contracts and these are in the process of
implementation. The remaining three projects were never initiated.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The project's main benefits are the savings to be derived by road users in vehicles operating costs,
passenger time costs and accident costs. Sample Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) estimates for
capacity improvement i.e. dual carriage of the Nairobi/Langata roads and Nairobi/Jogoo Roads; and the
periodic and rehabilitation of Nyeri/Meru roads were conducted. The overall EIRR is about 44% and the
NPV is US$48.4 million. Nearly 90% of the benefit contributions are from vehicle operating cost savings,
while about 10% of the benefits are from passenger time and accident costs savings. The post construction
overall EIRR of about 44% varies from 20% to 53% for the different projects and it appears to be
comparable to the appraisal EIRR estimate of 41% for all towns with ranges from 10% to 100%. The
benefits from the relatively higher traffic growth appear to have more than compensated for the increases in
rehabilitation costs.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The Institutional Development Impact is rated negligible.

Some of the noted institutional development impacts include:
      ·      Allocation of 5% of the total income tax by the central government to LAs under the
             intergovernmental fiscal transfers. This emphasized that the LAs are mandated to deliver
             various services.
      ·      Recognition of the LAs as road implementing agencies and hence able to access the RMLF.
      ·      The KLGRP received government support to implement various reforms and this has
             encouraged the LAs to accept institutional reforms. The City Council of Nairobi is proceeding
             in that direction and has requested the Bank's assistance to institute institutional and financial
             reforms.
      ·      The inclusion of non motorized transport facilities in the design of roads or as separate projects
             by the various road implementing agencies.

Although, some basic groundwork has been established for some of these institutional issues, there is need
in the medium and long term to monitor and evaluate their impact.




                                                     - 17 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

      ·      The local contractors tend to focus on submitting claims rather than realistic proposals
             (substantial)
      ·      Depreciation of the US dollar against the SDR (substantial)
      ·      Passage of the Roads Board Act wherein the LAs were not recognized as Road Implementing
             Agencies and would therefore not be allocated any funds directly from the MoF (partial)

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

      ·      Delays in credit effectiveness (partial)
      ·      A vehicle procured for the project was allocated to the Minister of Local Government. When
             the minister was transferred to the Ministry of Health, he took the vehicle with him. Although
             IDA formally advised the Ministry of Finance on the issue, the vehicle was never returned to
             the MoLG and the government opted to refund the cost of the vehicle to the Credit (substantial)

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

      ·      Delays in staffing arrangements for key positions within the TMU (substantial)
      ·      Delays in the transfer of the Road Maintenance Fuel Levy Funds to the 26 project towns
             (partial)
      ·      Delays in award of contracts due to cumbersome clearance and approval process (substantial)
      ·      Delays in processing of payments to contractors and consultants (partial)
      ·      Lack of political commitment to getting impact on the ground (substantial)
      ·      Inability to act decisively on non-performing contracts (substantial)

5.4 Costs and financing:

The detailed project costs by component and financing source, comparing the situation at appraisal and end
of project, are shown in the tables in Annex 2.

In summary, at appraisal (1993), the total project cost was US$155 million equivalent, including taxes and
duties. An IDA credit of US$115.0 million would finance 74% of the total project costs and GOK would
contribute US$40 million or 26% of total project costs, including US$4.2 million of taxes and duties.
During the life of the project, the amount available from the IDA credit was reduced to US$ 103.5 million
due to the depreciation of the US dollar against the Special Drawing Rights (SDR). At ICR (2005), IDA
disbursed a total US$78.35 million which is about 68% of the US$115 million at appraisal. The IDA
credit was under-spent in four out of the five components, but over-spent in one of the components. At
appraisal, the bulk of the GoK portion was to be spent on the road and transport infrastructure component
US$38.57 million, while the balance was to be spent on capacity building (maintenance and works
inspectorate). At ICR, the actual GoK contribution was US$78.4 million and all spent on the road and
transport infrastructure component, comprising about 196% of the estimate at appraisal.




                                                     - 18 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The rating for Sustainability is unlikely.

The sustainability rating is based on an assessment of the probability that the achievements generated by
the project can be maintained. With most of the outputs that were anticipated not having been
accomplished and the project objectives not having been fully met, it is unlikely that the project would be
sustainable.

The above not withstanding, it would be appropriate to mention the following actions that have been
undertaken as a result of the project in addition to limited attempts to implement similar activities as those
that were under the project.

      ·      The Borrower has undertaken and adopted a number of policy studies and reforms through the
             project. The establishment of the Local Authority Transfer Fund and Single Business Permit
             have provided additional resources to the LAs to improve service delivery. The linking of
             LASDAP to LATF has facilitated citizen participation and improved LAs' accountability and
             responsiveness. The introduction of the Single Business Permit has streamlined the process of
             acquiring a business license. These and other adopted reforms bode well for the institutional
             gains under the project.

      ·      The creation of the Roads Board, which was undertaken with assistance from the Bank,
             provided a new organizational structure that is responsible for channeling the funds allocated
             for road maintenance and building road maintenance capacity at the local government level.
             The establishment of the RMLF enabled GOK to continue disbursements to all LAs for road
             maintenance, despite the suspension of the credit.

      ·      After suspension of the credit, GOK has completed the outstanding works under the project
             and the remaining works have been repackaged and re-tendered. The government is also
             paying outstanding consultant fees under the project.

      ·      With regard to non-motorized transport facilities, the government now takes into consideration
             the provision of these facilities in all road work design.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The TMU technically operated within the Urban Development Department. After the suspension of the
credit in 2001, the management of the project has been mainstreamed into MoLG. The Department has
about 36 technical officers of various disciplines and cadres. The sections of the department are as follows:
Water and Sanitation; Road and Transport; Accounts; Planning; Social Development; Survey; and
Building and Survey. The responsibilities of the Director include the following:

      ·      Aspects related to planning, financing, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of urban
             programs and projects;
      ·      Formulation of urban development policies;



                                                       - 19 -

       ·      Preparation of quarterly reports covering urban development progress, prospects and
              constraints;
       ·      Liaising with external agencies and other financiers on urban projects' financial and related
              loan and development credit agreements; and
       ·      Coordination of all donor/technical urban projects.

It is clear that KUTIP laid the groundwork for the Local Government Reform Program. Many of the
reforms and procedures introduced through the project have to be integrated into MoLG and LAs as part of
the longer term program.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance during project identification, preparation and appraisal is rated satisfactory. The
identification of the project was in line with Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Kenya. The Bank
facilitated and worked with the GoK to identify the core objectives of the project and the right components
to meet those objectives. The project implementation plan and the Staff Appraisal Report were very
comprehensive and to an extent greatly enhanced the implementation of the project. The Bank also assisted
the GoK to identify a reliable source (Road Maintenance Fuel Levy Fund) to fund most of the GoK
contribution to the project and it is noted that the GoK contribution at ICR far exceeded the estimated
contribution at appraisal. As mentioned below, the project design was ambitious and may have led to some
of the activities not being initiated or fully implemented.

A supervision QAG review of the project done in November 2001 concluded as follows: (i) the project
design at entry was sound, if somewhat ambitious; and (ii) major activities were ready to start
implementation at approval, although staffing issues were a problem. The QAG report indicated that it
was not possible to identify problems encountered during implementation at entry. These problems related
to establishing a reliable funding mechanism and enhancing local capacity for road maintenance, project
staffing and quality construction.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's performance during supervision is rated unsatisfactory. IDA terminated the first Task Team
Leader (TTL) in 2000 for involvement in corruption under the project and changed the composition of the
IDA team. Throughout, it conducted frequent supervision missions (before and after the staff termination
during project implementation. Throughout, the IDA project supervision team comprised a mix of financial
specialists, procurement specialists, engineers, operational analysts and other supporting staff as necessary.
Known problems related to the project's implementation and fiduciary procedures were resolved effectively
on missions or between them. The team carried out financial management assessments, including
systematic review of the statements of expenditures and conducted two independent procurement audit
reviews, but as the subsequent forensic audit suggests, this work was not sufficiently sensitive to fraud
risks. Overall, attention to fiduciary matters has been mixed, with strong performance on environment
issues but a weak performance on monitoring and evaluation and social impact assessment.

The second TTL took over in 2000 up to the closure of the Credit in 2005 and the preparation of the ICR.
A supervision QAG review of the project done in November 2001 concluded that the overall supervision of
the project was satisfactory. The assessment of the QAG review indicated that implementation problems



                                                      - 20 -

encountered during the review period were documented extensively through aide memoires, back to office
reports and letters to the government. There was also active involvement of both the country and sector
managers and the new IDA supervision team under rather difficult circumstances, in dealing with the issues
and bringing them to the attention of both management and the client. Some of the notable positive actions
by the IDA team during the post 2000 supervision included the following:

       (i)       in liaison with the TMU staff, inspected the facilities of selected consultants and
                 contractors to ensure that they had the prerequisites to perform their mandates;
       (ii)      during and between the missions, the supervision team made site visits to the project sites;
       (iii)     in the early stages of supervision, the team advised TMU to hold monthly meetings with
                 the consultants, particularly the construction supervision consultants to resolve any issues;
       (iv)      to ensure quality of works, the team recommended to the TMU to engage a consultant
                 under the Maintenance Planning and Procurement Management (Chief Technical Advisor
                 (CTA)) consultancy contract to come up with actions necessary to enhance quality;
       (v)       the team recommended to the TMU to suspend the construction works for the bridge over
                 the railway line under the PKG/1 Jogoo Road contract when the quality of concrete failed
                 to meet the required specifications. A team from the University of Nairobi was appointed
                 by TMU to provide a viable solution on the already completed concrete works;
       (vi)      The team advised the TMU that the foot bridges' superstructures were over-designed.
                 This averted an issue when the contractor indicated that the columns were not strong
                 enough to support the beams and the rest of the superstructure and was unwilling to hoist
                 them;
       (vii)     the IDA indicated to GoK that it was detrimental to award one contractor, three contracts
                 at the same time, as the contractor did not meet the combined capacity requirements. GoK
                 went ahead to award the contracts on the basis of the contractor being the most responsive
                 particularly on the bid price. The contractor had not completed the works by the time of
                 suspension.
       (viii)    the IDA recommended to the TMU to put in place a payment tracking system to enhance
                 payments, and particularly on first come first paid basis; and




                                                      - 21 -

       (ix)      due to accumulating claims from the contractors, the IDA team recommended to the TMU
                 to recruit a claims expert. This recommendation was overtaken by events and it was
                 recommended that the aspects related to claims be included under the ToR of the forensic
                 auditor and this was done.


In retrospect, however, much more pressure cold have been exerted on the implementing agency to
undertake agreed actions. Issues that were not adequately addressed included:

       (i)       placement of adequate technical staff;
       (ii)      termination of non performing contracts;
       (iii)     processing of payments;
       (iv)      enhancement of financial management;
       (v)       payment of one claim that had been retrieved from an arbitrator;
       (vi)      late submission of audit reports; and
       (vii)     giving less attention to the implementation of micro-projects


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank performance rating is unsatisfactory even though the Bank's performance in the
preparation of the project was satisfactory. Indeed, the Bank's performance in the supervision of the
project would not have been satisfactory even with the exclusion of the involvement in corruption of the
first TTL which resulted in his termination and suspension of the project because the following additional
notable weaknesses were identified during the ICR review mission:

       (i)       The institutional aspects of the project received lower priority compared with the physical
                 road works. This may have contributed to the slow implementation of the micro­projects
                 sub-component to the extent that only four projects were completed and the rest were
                 caught up with the suspension of the credit in 2001; and
       (ii)      Not ensuring that the implementing agency undertook some agreed actions.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. Due to the large number of LAs
involved, the borrower facilitated deliberate and sustained dialogue between IDA, GoK, MoLG and both
the executives and the elected representatives of the local authorities. To enhance this dialogue, a series of
workshops and on-site consultations between the technicians, the executives and elected leaders were held
and this ensured a strong sense of ownership of the project by both the national government and the local
authorities. In addition, the borrower established an inter-ministerial policy committee comprising the PSs
from the relevant ministries and in parallel with this an inter-ministerial technical committee which included
officers from the relevant ministries and representatives from the local authorities. The borrower also put
in place competent staff that participated in the preparation and design of the project activities.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The government's performance during implementation was unsatisfactory. As mentioned in Sections 5.2



                                                     - 22 -

and 5.3 this was mainly due to lack of internal controls, a long list of steps of processes and procedures,
and slow decision making processes and not addressing pertinent issues raised during World Bank
missions. The following are some of the drawbacks and positive actions that characterized the
unsatisfactory performance of the government:

          ·   Some specific drawbacks:
               o     the GoK upheld a recommendation not to award a contract to a firm which according
                     to basic evaluation did not have the combined turnover for the contracts in which the
                     contractor was the most responsive. This led to the contractor not performing and
                     these are the three contracts that were never completed.
               o     one of the Ministers of Local Government moved to another ministry with a project
                     vehicle and the GoK opted to repay the money instead of enforcing a return of the
                     vehicle for the project's use.
               o     There were delays in the award of the first civil works contract which prompted the
                     decision to fast track implementation by transferring the implementation of some
                     roads contracts to El Nino Emergency Project.
               o     The MoLG went ahead to pay a claim under the Jogoo Road contract without
                     following the proper procedures. The claim was withdrawn from the arbitrator before
                     the process was completed and paid as per the recommendations of the adjudicator to
                     which the TMU had contested.

          ·   The positive actions included:
               o     The government ensured that the counterpart funding required for the project was
                     available. In addition, government corrected the situation when road maintenance
                     funds could not be satisfactorily remitted to the local authorities by the implementing
                     agency; and
               o     The government ensured that they were in compliance with the relevant legal
                     covenants.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agency was unsatisfactory. The project was managed as two
entities. The physical works were managed by the Project Manager, and the KLGRP was managed by the
Kenya Local Government Reform Program Coordinator. The main shortcomings included:

      (i)     The Ministry of Local Government had a very high turn-over of the Permanent Secretaries.
              During the period 1996 to June 2005, the office had been held by eight Permanent
              Secretaries. The different management styles and the understanding of the issues underlying
              the project took a heavy toll on the implementation of the project;
      (ii)    The Project Manager was involved in the mismanagement of the credit funds;
      (iii)   The TMU did not act on issues identified during missions, particularly the delays in
              payments to contractors and consultants;
      (iv)    Decisive action was not taken in terminating non performing contracts;
      (v)     Delays in the recruitment of additional staff;
      (vi)    Lack of supervision of the consultants and very few site visits were made by the TMU staff;
              and
      (vii)   Financial management was poor as noted through the lack of /or missing supporting
              accounts documentation due to poor record keeping, and internal control weaknesses; and



                                                    - 23 -

                qualified audit reports on the project account.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The Borrower's overall performance was unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


Some of the lessons learned were as follows:



(i)      Detection of Mismanagement: It is difficult to detect mismanagement of funds; particularly if
those involved are the Project Manager from government and the TTL from the Bank. In addition, the IDA
staff are not adequately trained to identify the "red flags" which could indicate mismanagement within a
project nor are the task teams provided with the time or resources to identify potential problems.
Management is looking into these issues and training of some key staff has begun.

Oversight accountability. The forensic audit noted weak oversight on the part of the government,
permitting far too much discretion to project management. This calls for the establishment of an effective
control review process, presumably within the Ministry of Finance, and the linking of project performance
(including the proper application of funds) to the performance criteria of responsible staff, who should be
at a senior level (Kenya has recently introduced performance contracts in the civil service). Of equal
importance, project steering committees must be established, empowered and given real accountability for
overseeing the proper execution of projects.

Involvement of high-level officials. Related to the accountability lesson, the KUTIP example demonstrates
the need for oversight and discussion of project results to be conducted at a high level, both on the
government and Bank side. Currently, regular reviews not just of project results but of administrative,
procurement and financial procedures should take place at the level of Permanent Secretaries of responsible
ministries and senior Bank staff, including the Country Director. Following preliminary discussions with
permanent secretaries during October - November 2005, the Country Management Unit will begin an
intensive, rolling country program review in January 2006 which will include regular senior level attention
to these fiduciary issues, supported by detailed implementation reviews of selected operations by the Bank's
Integrity Department.

(ii)     Participation and Downward Accountability and Communication. A well developed and
resourced communication strategy should be adopted to ensure that civil society is well informed of the
objectives of the project, the intended outputs, and the progress in meetings these objectives and outputs. In
addition, the project should include programs to actively seek the participation of CSOs in the design and
implementation of the agreed programs to both ensure that only high priority activities are undertaken but
that the government receives value for money for those activities which are undertaken.

(iii)    Payment Procedures. Streamlining the procurement and financial/payment procedures of
government will result in a reduction in the turn-around time for the award on contracts with similar
improvements in efficiencies for payments to contractors and consultants.

(iv)     Financial and Technical Audits. One of the observations during the forensic audit of the project
was that the procurement process did not necessarily achieve value for money. Carrying out a technical



                                                      - 24 -

audit would provide an additional quality control layer of project management supervision to demonstrate
government's commitment to having an efficiently managed project. For future IDA financed projects, it
would be useful to enhance the function of the audit firms to encompass more of the monitoring and
evaluation functions on a routine basis which could be included in the quarterly technical and financial
audit activities. The Bank now requires that all projects strengthen their accounting (ledger) systems and
undertake risk-based audits.

(v)      Staffing and Mainstreaming of Activities: Adequate staffing should be in place prior to project
effectiveness and maintained during implementation. Increased efforts should be made to include the
functions of managing the project and implementing the various activities into the responsible agency and
reducing the dependence on separate project units. Recognizing the problems that this will cause to project
implementation, the expected outcomes of the projects should be reduced to make them consistent with the
capacity of the staff. While this may result in less complicated projects and extensive outcomes, this will
be offset by being able to increase the capacity of the agency staff and increase internal controls resulting
from a greater distribution of responsibilities.



(vi)     Institutional Aspects: Institutional issues need to be given as much attention as the physical works
in order to fully achieve the overall development objectives. Emphasis should be given and agreements
reached which link the start of physical works to the completion of institutional targets and human resource
capacity building. The fiduciary activities should include support given to the establishment of a qualified
and independent internal audit function as well as both financial and performance audits to ensure that the
client is receiving value for money.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

  See Annex 9

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

   See Annex 8




                                                     - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


KPIs at ICR, including revisions of KPIs at appraisal

          Key Performance Indicators            At Appraisal   End of Project


                                                   Baseline  Revised   Actual
           Outcome/Impact Indicator

Urban roads - Rehabilitated/reconstructed (km)        475     145        138


Urban roads (periodic maintenance) (kms)              400     199        185

Percentage of civil works dedicated to non-            4      19.3       11.5
motorized
Funds made available to 26 LAs for roads             24 m     23.1       16.5
maintenance from RMLF per year (m US$)
No. of LAs with installed computer facilities to      26      26          4
facilitate roads maintenance
Training: No. of LAs trained on roads                  0      23          23
inspectorate
Training on management and procurement: No             0      31          31

Training on roads maintenance: No.                  None      454         0


LG Reforms:                                         None     FY 1998   FY 1998

   ·     SBP Implemented
   ·     LATF                                       None     FY 1998   FY 1999

   ·     Fuel levy                                           FY 1996   FY 2000

   ·     Simplified Accounting System               None     FY 1998   FY 2000

   ·     CILOR                                      None     FY 1998   FY 2000
   ·     Integrated Financial Management            None     FY 2000   FY 2001
   System

   ·     Local Authorities Service Delivery         None     FY 2002   FY 2002
   Action Plan
   ·     Number of workshops/seminars               None      14          14




                                                - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Annex 2a : Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


                                           Appraisal     Actual/ Latest Percentage of
                Component
                                           Estimate         Estimate     Appraisal


1. Road and Transport Infrastructure         118.5            128.3        108.3
Routine Maintenance                           27.3            19.4
Periodic Maintenance                          16.5                           0
Rehabilitation Works                          36.3            79.6         219.5
Improvements                                  27.9                           0
SSATP Pilot Investments                        4.4              0            0
Traffic Management Infrastructure              6.1              0            0

Re-allocated to ENEP                            0             29.4          N/A


2. Capacity Building                          14.5            11.7          80.7

Maintenance and Works Inspectorate             2.9             2.8          97.5

Maintenance Planning and Coordination           1              3.3         333.4

Traffic Management and Coordination            1.7              0            0

Training and Staff Development                 1.8             0.3          17.1

Mapping                                        7.1             5.3          74.2


3. Program Policy Studies                      0.8             0.3           39

Nairobi Long-Term Traffic Management           0.5             0.3          58.5
Study
Mombasa Long-Term Investment Study             0.3              0            0


4. Project Implementation Support             19.7            11.7           59


5. Future Project Preparation                  1.5             4.8         318.5



Total                                          155            156.8         101




                                             - 27 -

Annex 2b. 1 : Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements

Project cost by Procurement Arrangement (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)


                                                               Procurement Method
              Expenditure Category                        ICB           LCB      Other           Total Cost



1. Civil Works                                            85.2           8.4         18.91/         93.6
                                                         (74.1)                                    (74.1)


2. Goods                                                   2.1            0            0            2.1
                                                          (2.1)                                    (2.1)


3. Consultancy Services                                    0              0           30.9          30.9

                                                                                     (29.3)        (29.3)


4. Training                                                0              0           2.6           2.6

                                                                                      (2.6)        (2.6)


5. Incremental Operating Costs                             0              0           4.92/          0

                                                                                      (4.9)        (4.9)


6. Refunding of PPF                                        0              0            2             2

                                                                                       -2           (2)


Total                                                     87.3           8.4          57.3         131.2
                                                         (76.2)                      (38.8)        (115)




Note Figures in Parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
1/ Works to be carried out by local contract or force account using government funds and procedures
2/ Travel and operational costs using Ministry of Local Government internal procedures
(US$ million equivalent)




                                                  - 28 -

Annex 2b. 2 Project cost by Procurement Arrangement (Actual/latest estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)


                                                         Procurement Method1/
          Expenditure Category                     ICB             LCB      Other2/            Total Cost


1. Civil Works                                      55.5            72.9                          128.4
                                                   (49.9)         (0.05)                         (49.95)


2. Goods                                                            1.1             0              1.1
                                                                   (1.1)                          (1.1)


3. Consultancy Services                              0               0            24.4            24.4

                                                                                  (24.4)         (24.4)


4. Training                                          0               0             0.3             0.3
                                                                                  (0.3)           (0.3)


5. Incremental Operating Costs                       0               0             0.7             0.7

                                                                                  (0.7)           (0.7)


6. Refunding of PPF                                  0               0             1.9             1.9

                                                                                  (1.9)           (1.9)


Total                                               55.5            74            27.3            156.8
                                                   (49.9)          (1.15)         (27.3)         (78.35)



Note: Figures in Parenthesis are the respective amounts finance by IDA
1/ Works to be carried out by local contract or force account using government funds and procedures
2/ Travel and operational costs using Ministry of Local Government internal procedures




                                                  - 29 -

Annex 2c - Project Financing by Component
(US$ million equivalent)
                                                             P L A N N E D                 A C T U A L
C o m p o n e n t                                       GoK              I D A        G o K        I D A


1. Road and Transport Infrastructure3     /             38.57            79.91       78.44         49.91
Routine M aintenance                                    27.33              0         19.41           0
Periodic M aintenance                                    3.24            13.26        N/A          N /A
Rehabilitation W o rks                                   4.35            31.91       59.03         20.56
Improvements                                             3.35            24.54        N/A          N /A
SSATP Pilot Investments                                   0              4.41           0            0
Traffic M anagement Infrastructure                       0.29            5.79           0            0

Re-allocated to ENEP                                      0              32.3           0          29.35


2. Capacity Building                                     1.44            13.03          0          11.68

M aintenance and W orks Inspectorate                     1.44            1.44           0          2.82
M aintenance Planning and Coordination                    0                1            0          3.32

Traffic M anagement and Coordination                      0               1.7           0            0

Training and Staff Development                            0              1.83           0           0.3
M apping                                                  0              7.05           0          5.24


3. Program Policy Studies                                 0              0.81           0           0.3
Nairobi Long-Term Traffic M anagement Study               0              0.54           0           0.3


M ombasa Long-Term Investment Study                       0              0.27           0            0


4. Project Im p lementation Support   4 /                 0              19.76          0          9.78

Construction Supervision Consultants                     N /A            N/A            0            4
Re-allocated to ENEP (CSCs )                             N /A            N/A            0          3.57
Operating Costs                                          N /A            N/A            0          0.75
Audits                                                   N /A            N/A            0          0.36
G o o d s                                                N /A            N/A            0           1.1


5. Future Project Preparation                             0              1.51           0          4.78
KLGRP Studies                                            N /A            N/A            0          4.73
M icro projects                                          N /A            N/A            0          0.05


Total                                                   40.01            115         78.44         76.45
 Refund of PPF                                                                                      1.9
                                                                                                   78.35


Note:Figures in Parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
1/ Works to be carried out by local contract or force account using government funds and procedures
2/Travel and operational costs using Ministry of Local Government internal procedures
3/US $ 32.3 m was re-allocated to the El Nino Emergency Project
4/US $ 5.0 m was re-allocated to the El Nino Emergency Project




                                                  - 30 -

Annex 2d - Outstanding Payments by Component
(US$ million equivalent)


               Component                   GoK         IDA



1. Road and Transport Infrastructure   1,568,639.89 3,731,209.40


2. Capacity Building                         0      1,546,756.77


3. Program Policy Studies                  0.00          0


4. Project Implementation Support          0.00      130,913.33


5. Future Project Preparation              0.00      55,157.03



Total                                  1,568,639.89 5,464,036.53




                                          - 31 -

Annex 2e - Allocations for Road maintenance from the Road Maintenance Fuel Levy (RMFL)


          Local    Allocation for Allocation for  Allocation Allocation for Allocation for Allocation for Allocation for
        Authority  FY 1999/2000   FY2000/2001    for FY2001/ FY2002/ 2003 FY2003/ 2004     FY2004/ 2005   Cumulative
 No.                  (KSHS)         (KSHS)         2002        (KSHS)         (KSHS)         (KSHS)      1999 to 2005
                                                   (KSHS)                                                    (KSHS)


 1   Bungoma           3,010,310      3,447,648            0     1,961,367      3,161,404      3,161,404      14,742,133
 2   Busia             2,446,152      2,785,204            0     1,804,072      2,542,361      2,542,254      12,120,043

 3   Eldoret          10,977,793     12,803,190            0     7,771,791     11,904,017     14,458,860      57,915,651
 4   Embu              2,984,178      3,416,961            0     2,065,419      3,132,730      2,132,730      13,732,018

 5   Garissa           3,433,059      3,944,044            0     2,385,831      3,625,281      3,625,281      17,013,496
 6   Homa Bay          2,685,314      3,066,030            0     1,852,037      2,804,791      2,804,799      13,212,971

 7   Kabarnet          1,436,527      1,599,686            0       960,701      1,434,514      1,434,703       6,866,131
 8   Kajiado           1,436,527      1,599,685            0       960,701      1,434,514      1,434,514       6,865,941

 9   Kakamega          6,012,443      6,972,800            0     4,227,301      6,455,605      5,453,891      29,122,040
 10  Kapsabet          1,486,804      1,658,722            0       996,578      1,489,682      1,488,434       7,120,220

 11  Kericho           5,043,060      5,834,532            0     3,535,391      5,391,914      5,391,914      25,196,811
 12  Kisii             4,634,574      5,354,884            0     3,553,103      4,943,688      4,943,980      23,430,229

 13  Kisumu           18,549,577     21,694,104            0    13,177,162     20,212,434     24,532,301      98,165,577
 14  Kitale            5,764,876      6,682,100            0     4,050,440      6,183,953      4,000,000      26,681,369

 15  Machakos         11,390,915     13,288,284            0     8,066,670     10,357,330      5,921,682      49,024,881
 16  Malindi           3,688,522      4,244,012            0     2,568,213      3,905,597      3,905,419      18,311,763

 17  Meru              9,391,836     10,940,934            0     3,639,719     10,163,767      3,163,776      37,300,032
 18  Mombasa          43,743,451     51,277,152            0    31,162,504     47,857,334     58,052,541     232,092,982

 19  Murang'a          2,527,554      2,880,786            0     1,739,519      2,631,683      2,631,679      12,411,221
 20  Nairobi          62,523,402    146,157,744            0    93,247,222    136,521,769    165,517,044     603,967,181

 21  Nakuru           15,856,088     18,531,366            0    11,254,227     17,256,904     20,928,440      83,827,026
 22  Narok             1,589,041      1,778,769            0     1,077,993      1,601,865      1,601,600       7,649,268

 23  Nyeri             9,046,363     10,535,274            0     4,392,949      9,784,684      3,784,686      37,543,956
 24  Thika             5,894,569      6,834,390            0     4,142,904      6,326,263      5,326,244      28,524,370

 25  Voi               1,736,358      1,951,752            0     1,174,716      1,763,514      1,763,535       8,389,875
 26  Wote                687,305        719,936            0       425,743        612,402      1,000,000       3,445,386
     TOTAL           237,976,598    349,999,989            0  212,194,273     323,500,000    351,001,712  1,474,672,572




                                                  - 32 -

Annex 2 (f): Adopted Streets Road Network in the project towns



                           Adopted Streets Road Network
 Serial       Town        Paved     Unpaved        Total


   1      Bungoma           3.1       63.4          66.5
   2      Busia             0.7       45.6          46.3
   3      Eldoret          78.6       132.5        211.1
   4      Embu              0.3       86.9          87.2
   5      Garissa           3.7       22.6          26.3
   6      Homa Bay          4.5       56.4          60.9
   7      Kabarnet          3.9       35.5          39.4
   8      Kajiado           4.5       27.6          32.1
   9      Kakamega          5.6       65.2          70.8
  10      Kapsabet          1.2       22.9          24.1
  11      Kericho          13.4       56.6          70
  12      Kisii             4.1       74.6          78.7
  13      Kisumu            87        71.1         158.1
  14      Kitale           32.2       167.8         200
  15      Machakos         15.6       279.9        295.5
  16      Malindi           2.4       23.9          26.3
  17      Meru              8.3       69.4          77.7
  18      Mombasa         258.7       88.4         347.1
  19      Muranga          20.3       128.4        148.7
  20      Nairobi        1,643.60     210.4       1,854.00
  21      Nakuru            83        338.5        421.5
  22      Narok             4.1       117.1        121.2
  23      Nyeri            39.1       98.7         137.8
  24      Thika            39.2        38           77.2
  25      Voi               0.8       24.4          25.2
  26      Wote               0        23.6          23.6


          Total          2,357.90   2,369.40      4,727.30




                                            - 33 -

Annex 2 (g): Details of road civil works contracts advertised on October 23, 1995

Contract No.    Contract Name                              Nature and size of works
PKG/1           Nairobi/Jogoo Road                         Dualling 1.1 km

PKG/2           Nairobi/Langata Road                       Dualling 6.25 km

PKG/3           Nairobi/Likoni Missing Link Road           Construction 1.5 km

PKG/4           Nairobi/Ngong Road Part A                  Dualling 0.8 km

PKG/5A          Nairobi/PM                                 Periodic maintenance 80 km
PKG/6           Nairobi Rehabilitation                     Rehabilitation 15 km

PKG/7           Nairobi Rehabilitation                     Rehabilitation 15 km
PKG/8           Nairobi Rehabilitation                     Rehabilitation 15 km

PKG/9           Mombasa/Malindi Roads                      Rehabilitation 25 km; periodic
                                                           maintenance 10 km
PKG/10          Mombasa Roads                              Rehabilitation 20 km; periodic
                                                           maintenance 27 km
PKG/11          Mombasa/Voi Roads                          Rehabilitation 25 km; periodic
                                                           maintenance 10 km
PKG/12          Eldoret Roads                              Rehabilitation 8 km
PKG/13          Kisumu Roads                               Rehabilitation 19 km
PKG/14          Bungoma/Buia/Kakamega Roads                Rehabilitation 5.5 km; periodic
                                                           maintenance 2.0 km
PKG/15          HomaBay/Kisii Roads                        Rehabilitation 3.9 km; periodic
                                                           maintenance 1.4 km
PKG/16          Kabarnet/Nakuru/Narok                      Rehabilitation 12.0 km
PKG/17          Kapsabet/Kericho Roads                     Rehabilitation 8.0 km

PKG/18          Kitale Roads                               Rehabilitation 2.3 km; periodic
                                                           maintenance 2.5 km
PKG/19          Embu/Garissa/Muranga/Thika Roads           Rehabilitation 8.0 km; periodic
                                                           maintenance 6.0 km
PKG/20          Nyeri/Meru Roads                           Rehabilitation 6.0 km; periodic
                                                           maintenance 3.3 km
PKG/21          Machakos/Kajiado/Makueni Roads             Rehabilitation 4.0 km; periodic
                                                           maintenance 2.0 km




                                               - 34 -

Annex 2 (h): Details on the civil works (roads) contracts implemented under the TMU

Package No.   / Contractor     /  Contract        / Start Date  Contract    Certified to   Physical
Towns /Sites    Consultant        Scope of        /(Rev.          Value     Date (KSh) / % Progress
                                  Works           Finish Date)   /Original  Contract Value (%)
                                                                /Revised
                                                                   KSh

1               Krishan Behal/    Dualling of 1.6    19-Apr-99  269,591,104 25,752,674,542        94
Nairobi / Jogoo Otieno Odongo     km and bridge   15 months     299,962,363     A.   86
Road            and Partners      over railway    18 Jul 00
                                                  (Unknown)
2               Crescent /        Dualling of     07/29/1998      400606982    499,950,120        98
Nairobi /       Otieno Odongo     Langata Road, (Unknown)        + Variation            104
Langata Road    and Partners      6.25 km.                        79,286,290

14             Associated /       Rehab &         01 Dec 98     214,499,351    209,723,171       100
Kakamega       Gath Consulting    periodic mtce   (27 Jun 00)                            98
Bungoma        Engineers
Busia
15             Associated /       Rehab &         01 Dec 98     114,540,961    113,034,025       100
Kisii           Gath Consulting   periodic mtce    (28 Jun 00)                           99
Homa Bay        Engineers

16              Hayer Bishan      Rehab &         01 Dec 98     211,376,380    211,359,556       100
Kabarnet        Singh & Sons      periodic mtce   28 Feb 00                            99.9
Nakuru          Ltd./  Integrated
Narok           Strategic
                Consultants Ltd


17             G. Issaias/        Rehab &         15 Feb 99     139,298,165    137,837,238       100
Kericho        Integrated         periodic mtce   (19 Apr 00)
Kapsabet       Strategic                                                                 99
               Consultants Ltd.
19A            S.S. Mehta &       Rehab &         27 Dec 99       78,019,893    77,143,405       100
Thika          Sons/              periodic mtce   26 Mar 01                              99
               Sapamo/Gibb JV

19B - Embu     Victory Constr/    Rehab &         01 Sep 00       80,689,536    47,930,000        62
M urang'a       Sapamo/Gibb JV periodic mtce      30 Nov 01                            59.4

20 A            Victory Constr/   Rehab &         27 Dec 99     142,777,062     97,559,201        99
Nyeri           Sapamo/Gibb JV periodic mtce       (30 Nov 01)                           68

20B             Victory Constr/   Rehab &         01 Sep 00       81,341,689    40,666,850        65
M eru           Sapamo/Gibb JV periodic mtce      30 Nov 01                              50
21              S.S Mehta/        Rehab &         27 Apr 99     152,768,546    150,732,475       100
M achakos       Uniconsult        periodic mtce    (31 Oct 00)                         98.6
Kakiado         Kenya Ltd.
M akueni




                                              - 35 -

Annex2(i):DetailsoftheNon-MotorizedFacilities


                                              LENGTH/
                                               WIDTH       CONTRACTSUM     COSTOFNMT                 COMPLETION      Remarks


 PACKAGE &TOWN       TYPEOFNMTWORKS             KM/M           (KSH)       WORKS(KSH)   STARTDATE      DATE


PKG1-JogooRoad-
Nairobi             Foot Path              2.8 km, 2m
                    CycleTrack             2.8 km, 2m          269,591,104    10,700,000  19-Apr-00      31-Jul-01

                    Foot Path              9 km, 2m

PKG2-LangataRoad-   CycleTrack             3.4 km, 2m                         18,000,000
Nairobi             Footbridges            3No.                400,606,982    15,000,000   29-Jul-98     07-Jul-00



PKG14-Kakamega,
Bungoma, Busia      Foot Path              2.5 km, 1.5m


                    CycleTrack(Kakamega)   4.5km, 2.5m         214,499,351    12,857,119  29-Dec-98      27-Jul-00
PKG15-Kisii,HomaBay Foot Path              0.2 km, 1.5m                        1,380,232
                    HandcartLane           0.85km,2.5m         114,540,961     2,261,625  29-Dec-98     30-May-00



PKG16-Kabarnet,
Nakuru, Narok       FootPath(Kabarnet)     0.70km,2m           211,376,961       445,145  29-Dec-98      29-Feb-00


PKG17-Kericho,                             1No.across
Kapsabet            FootBridge             river               139,298,165       666,200  01-Feb-99     15-May-00
PKG19A-Thika        Foot Path              6.85km,2m            78,019,893    14,389,650  27-Dec-99     27-Mar-01


PKG20A-Muranga,                                                                                                   not completed
Embu                Foot Path              1.14 km, 2m                         3,289,200
                    Foot Path              1.7 km, 2m           80,689,537     1,569,750  01-Sep-00     30-Nov-01
PKG20B-Nyeri        Foot Path              1.7 km, 2m          142,777,062     3,711,770  27-Dec-99     26-Mar-01

                                                                                                                  not completed
PKG19B-Meru         Foot Path              4.3 km, 2m           81,341,689     5,393,640  01-Sep-00


PKG21-
Machakos/Kajiado    FootPath(Machakos)     2.19 km, 2m         152,768,546     6,370,050  27-Apr-99      31-Oct-00
/Makueni
Nairobi             Cycletracks/footpaths  12.4 km             150,000,000   150,000,000  01-Feb-02               Not done
                    1US$=Ksh.75            Total: Ksh.        2,035,510,250  246,034,381
                                           Total Equiv. US$.    27,140,137     3,280,458




                                                         - 36 -

Annex 2 (j) Details of Micro Projects

  MP        Local Authority        Project       Project cost    IDA       Commitment by        Status
                                                              contribution Local Authority

  No.                                               Kshs.        Kshs.          and
                                                                            Stakeholders
                                                                               (Kshs.)
                             Construction of      8 million    6 million     1.4 million  Contract

1           Ahero town       business kiosks                                              terminated

                             Construction of      7.8 million  6 million       660,000    Bid documents not

            Kisumu           public toilets                                               completed

2           Municipal
3                            Rehabilitation of    7.8 million  6 million       331,424    Contract
            Kakamega         main market                                                  terminated
            Municipal
4                            Rehabilitation of    4.6 million 4.14 million 10% of cost met Design stage
                             municipal offices                             by Council
                             and chambers
5           Maragwa          Maragwa Water        28 million   6 million                  Bid documents
                             Supply                                                       completed and no
                                                                                          further action.
6                            Capacity building    2.7 million 2.43 million 430,000 in cash Completed
                                                                           and.230,000 in
                                                                           kind.
7           Embu             Construction of      6.7 million 5.4 million    1.76 million Award revoked
                             health clinic
8           Nakuru           Provision of refuse  7.8 million 5.4 million    1.8 million  Complete
            Municipal        truck
9           Mavoko           Provision of       3.922 million 3.52 million     700,000    Complete
                             exhauster truck
10                           Embakasi estate      5 million   4.5 million      200,000    Not initiated.
                             water supply
11          Bomet            Construction of a    9 million   5.4 million      602,000    Award revoked
                             bus park
12          Thika            Kenyatta             6 million   5.4 million    1.8 million  Not initiated.
                             Secondary School
13          Naivasha         Construction of      7.7 million  6 million     1.61 million Award revoked
                             Kinangop bus park


14          Nyeri            Soko Mjinga         9.65 million  6 million    1.2 million in Completed.
                             market                                         cash and 3.65
                                                                           million in kind




                                                - 37 -

Annex 2 (k): Details of civil works (roads) contracts implemented under the El Nino Emergency Project


Serial  Contract   Contract    Scope   Technical  Contractor   Contract Start Date    Original  Revised   Contract Price

Number  Number     Name        (km)    Unit                                           Contract  Contract            KSh
        PKG 7N     Central             Tahal      China Road             01-Sep-99   30-Dec-00
                                                                                     End Date  21-Dec-00
                                                                                                End Date     487,189,729
                   Business                       and Bridge
    1              District            /Bhundiia
        PKG 8N1    Industrial          Tahal      TM-AM &                01-Sep-99   30-Dec-00 21-Dec-00     543,286,590
    2              Area                /Bhundiia  Stirling

        PKG 8N2    Eastleigh &         Tahal      China Road             01-Sep-99   30-Dec-00 21-Dec-00     548,760,828
    3              Eastlands           /Bhundiia  and Bridge

        PKG 9N     Malindi             Uniconsult Victory                01-Sep-99   30-Aug-00 31-Oct-00      47,295,112
    4              Roads
    5   PKG 10N    Voi Roads           Uniconsult Victory                01-Sep-99   30-May-00 31-May-00      18,297,965
        PKG 11E    Mombasa             Uniconsult Stirling               10-Mar-99   09-Sep-00 10-Jun-01     332,630,210
    6              Roads
        PKG 13E    Kisumu              Gath       Hayer                   15-Oct-99  14-Jan-01 15-Mar-01     130,980,186
                   Roads                          Bishan Singh
    7
        PKG 19C    Garissa             Gibb       Tenfold                18-Feb-00   17-Oct-00 13-Dec-00      24,003,564
    8              Roads
        Total                       73

                                                              Total Ksh                                    2,132,444,184
                                                              Total Equivalent US$:                           28,432,589




                                                  - 38 -

Annex 2 (l): Details of civil works (roads) contracts implemented by GoK using own funds
           from the Road Maintenance Fuel Levy funds

 Item        Contract Description          Contractor      Initial Contract Road Length Revised Contract Sum
                                                                 sum           (Km)            (Kshs)


        Periodic Maintenance             Kabuito              381,921,386.00    34             381,921,386.00
   1    Westlands/Parklands Roads        Contractor Ltd.


        Periodic Maintenance of          Kirinyaga            297,553,565.98    23             297,553,565.98
   2    Makadara/Kasarani area roads Construction
                                         (K) Ltd.
        Repair and Rehabilitation of     Westfield            497,139,376.50    56            *564,253,192.00
   3    Karen/Langata roads              International
                                         Ltd.
        Repair and Rehabilitation of     Krishan Behal        624,187,949.30    32             624,187,949.30
   4    Pumwani area roads               & Sons

        Repair and Rehabilitation of     Kirinyaga            399,755,217.00    42             399,755,217.00
   5    Nairobi Roads                    Construction
                                         (K) Ltd.
        Periodic Maintenance Eldoret Kabuito                  383,484,747.00    24             383,484,747.00
   6    roads                            Contractor Ltd.


        Repair and Rehabilitation of     Nyoro                288,311,887.00    18             288,311,887.00
   7    Nakuru Roads                     Construction
                                         Company

        Repair and Rehabilitation of     Hayer Bishan         397,856,162.00    30            *416,774,197.35
   8    Kisumu Roads                     Singh & Sons
        Repair and Rehabilitation of     PUT Sarajevo         587,415,403.00    36             587,415,403.00
   9    Embakasi. Umoja, Dandora         General
        and Gigiri Roads                 Engineering

        Nairobi Storm Water Drainage Firoze                   456,863,729.30     _            *532,863,729.00
  10                                     Construction
                          Total                             4,314,489,423.08    295          4,486,521,273.63




                                                  - 39 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Economic and Financial Analysis

Summary of Benefits and Costs

The project's main benefits are the savings to be derived by road users in vehicles operating costs,
passenger time costs and accident costs. Sample Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) estimates for
capacity improvement i.e. dual carriage of the Nairobi/Langata roads and Nairobi/Jogoo Roads; and the
periodic and rehabilitation of Nyeri/Meru roads were conducted. The overall EIRR is about 44% and the
NPV is US$48.4 million. Nearly 90% of the benefit contributions are from vehicle operating cost savings,
while about 10% of the benefits are from passenger time and accident costs savings. The post construction
overall EIRR of about 44% varies from 20% to 53% for the different projects and it appears to be
comparable to the appraisal EIRR estimate of 41% for all towns with ranges from 10% to 100%. The
benefits from the relatively higher traffic growth appear to have more than compensated for the increases in
rehabilitation costs.

Assumptions

The methodology used is similar to that employed by the SAR. However, post-construction economic rates
of return were computed using the most recent version of the Highway Development and Management
Model (HDM-4) while at appraisal ERR estimates were calculated for a range of traffic values based on
certain imputed parameters related to vehicle types using HDM-III.

Traffic projection

Traffic counts for the selected rehabilitated roads were carried out. Traffic growth was projected at 3% for
all types of vehicles based on historical traffic data and economic trends.

Traffic Counts (October 2004)

              Project                         AADT
1. Nairobi/Jogoo Road                                   10,813

2. Nairobi/Langata Road                                 19,350
20. Nyeri/Meru Roads                                     2,489


Economic Costs

Maintenance and rehabilitation costs were estimated in financial terms and converted into economic costs
(net of taxes) in 2004 prices, with economic costs being on average 78% of financial costs.




                                                      - 40 -

                        Rehabilitation Economic Costs
Road                                          Length Road work                     Economic Costs
                                               (km)
1. Nairobi/Jogoo Road                           1.6    Dualling and bridge over                   3.21
                                                       railway
2. Nairobi/Langata Road                         6.25   Dualling of Langata road                   8.47

20. Nyeri/Meru Roads                             6     Rehabilitation                             1.88


                       Maintenance Unit Costs
Operation                                                                           Economic Costs
Reconsideration (US$/m2)                                                                        29.09
Patching (US$/m2)                                                                               14.52
Edge Repair (US$/m2)                                                                             7.25
Overlay (US$/km)                                                                                 9.24
Resealing(US$/km)                                                                                1.66
Crack sealing (US$/m2)                                                                           1.11
Drainage Maintenance (US$/km)                                                                    2.15

Routine maintenance(US$/km/year)                                                                  858



Economic Benefits

The economic analysis includes the benefits derived from: (a) VOC savings on rehabilitated roads; (b) time
savings through relieved congestion on capacity improved roads and (c) lower accident costs.

Vehicle operating cost savings. Vehicle fleet characteristics and economic unit costs were defined for six
vehicle classes, which are given in the table below.

Time saving. The value of working time of car passenger savings was estimated considering an average
economic annual income of Kshs250,000 per annum and 2000 working hours per year (250 days at 8
hours), and the value of the working time of public transport users was estimated to be twice the minimum
wages. The value of non-working time was considered 25 percent of working time and the percent of work
journeys to be 35 for cars and 25 for public transport. The value of cargo time has been estimated on the
basis of an average cargo value of US$400 per ton and a cost of working capital of 15%. The table below
presents typical road user costs at different roughness levels, in US$ per vehicle-km, and typical road user
cost composition for a road roughness equal to 2.0 IRI.




                                                    - 41 -

                         Vehicle Fleet Characteristics and Economic Unit Costs
                               Car         Light      Medium Heavy       Matatus    Bus
                                           truck      truck     truck
Vehicles characteristics
Service life (years)                     6        10          8         8          6               7

Hours driven per year                  400      1300       2500     2500       1600             3000
Km driven per year                   20000    60000       80000    60000     100000            15000

Number of passengers                     2          0         0         0        12               40
Gross vehicle weight (ton)             1.6          5      12.3       40         3.2            12.6

ESA loading factor                       0      0.03        4.3       4.6        0.1             2.4
Typical Unit Road User Cost Composition for roughness =2.0 IRI (US$/vehicle-km)
Economic Unit Cost                         Car        Light     Medium Heavy        Matatus Bus
                                                      truck     truck    truck
New vehicle price (US$)                       15440       16130    55270     119210   19460    61660

New tyre price (US$)                                4        72      238        260       46     238
Fuel cost (US$/lt)                              0.38       0.43      0.43       0.43    0.43    0.43
Lubricants cost (US$/lt)                        1.32       1.32      1.32       1.32    1.32    1.32
Maintenance labor (US$/hr)                      6.71       6.71      8.66       8.66    6.71    6.71
Crew cost (US$/Crew-hr)                             0      1.48      2.99       2.99    1.48    1.48
Passenger work time (US$/pa-hr)                 1.64       0.61      0.61       0.61    0.61    0.61
Passenger non-working time (US$pa-hr)           0.41       0.16      0.16       0.16    0.16    0.16
Cargo time (US$/hr)                                 0     0.015     0.038      0.133       0       0
Annual interest rate (%)                          12         12       12         12       12      12


Typical Unit Road User Costs in Kenya (US$/vehicle-km)

Roughness (IRI)                    Car     Light truck   Medium      Heavy     Matatus     Bus
                                                          truck       truck
2                                 0.231       0.209        0.45       0.884      0.244     0.486
4                                 0.236       0.22        0.447       0.936      0.253     0.513
6                                 0.245       0.238       0.524       1.033      0.269     0.562
8                                 0.261       0.255       0.569       1.353      0.289     0.621
10                                0.282       0.274       0.619       1.239      0.315     0.698
12                                0.305       0.295       0.672       1.353      0.344     0.783
14                                0.329       0.318       0.728       1.469      0.375     0.87
16
Typical Unit Road User Cost Composition for roughness =2.0 IRI (US$/vehicle-km)
Unit cost                          Car     Light truck   Medium      Heavy     Matatus     Bus
                                                          truck       truck
Fuel and oil                      0.042       0.07        0.105       0.239      0.064     0.13
Tires                             0.002       0.004       0.014       0.024      0.003     0.019
Parts and labor                   0.041       0.088       0.213       0.346      0.093     0.131
Depreciation and interest          0.13       0.031       0.086       0.24       0.035     0.062
Crew time                           0         0.016       0.032       0.035      0.015     0.062
Overhead                            0           0           0           0          0         0
Subtotal                          0.215       0.209        0.45       0.884      0.21      0.404
Passenger and cargo time          0.016         0           0         0.002      0.034     0.126
Total                             0.231        209         0.45       0.884      0.244     0.486



                                                    - 42 -

Accident cost savings. For capacity improvement roads, roads to be widened to four lanes, accident
benefits were computed considering an estimate of the actual accident rate on two lane roads (180 accidents
per 100 million vehicles-km) and an assumed reduction in accidents of 40 percent once a road is widen to
four lanes. Insurance companies for various types of injuries in Kenya based the unit accident cost, given
on the following table, conservatively on the average payouts.

                                  Accident Units Costs
                                    Accident Costs (US$)       Percent of Accidents
Fatal                                               13,600                         20%
Injury                                               6,800                         30%
Damaged only                                         2,200                         50%

All Accidents                                        5,860                        100%
Accident rates (100 million vehicle-km)
Two Lane Road Actual                                                                180
Four lane Road Estimate                                                             108


Economic Evaluation

A discount rate of 12% and evaluation period to 20 years was applied. As presented below, all project
roads yield an ERR greater than 12%. The sub-projects covered in the economic analysis were: (i) capacity
improvement by means of dualling and /or redesign of junctions; and (ii) rehabilitation of badly deteriorated
pavements by means of structural overlays or addition of granular base with surface treatment or asphalt
wearing course.

Economic Evaluation Results

                   Project                     NPV (Million US$)         IRR (%)
1. Nairobi/Jogoo Road                                         10.62                 20%
2. Nairobi/Langata Road                                       34.92                 53%
20. Nyeri/Meru Roads                                            2.9                 32%
Total                                                         48.44                 44%

The following table presents the distribution of the projects benefits, which indicates that about 89.0% of
the project benefits are due to a reduction of vehicle operating costs, while passenger time and accident
savings represent 10.0% of the project benefits.

Distribution of Net Benefits

                     Project                       PV (Million US$)         Percent (%)

Increase in road agency costs                                  14.04                    -

Decrease in vehicle operating costs                            66.71             89.07%

Decrease in the passenger time costs                             7.56            10.00%

Decrease in accident costs                                       0.02             0.03%

Net Society benefits (NPV)                                     48.44             65.20%




                                                     - 43 -

Sensitivity analysis /Switching values of critical items:

The sensitivity analysis is based on eliminating accident benefits, eliminating passenger time savings,
increasing costs and decreasing benefits. The results show that all sub-projects yield an EIRR greater than
12%, even under the sensitivity scenario of increasing the construction costs by 20% and reducing the
benefits by 20%.

Economic Evaluation Sensitivity Analysis

                                                       Internal Rate of Return (%)
                                       Base       No Accidents     No Time      Costs  Benefits
                                                                                + 20%     -20%
1. Nairobi/Jogoo Road                   28%            28%           25%         28%       24%
2. Nairobi/Langata Road                 53%            53%           46%         53%       44%
20. Nyeri/Meru Roads                    32%            32%           28%         32%       27%
Total                                   44%            44%           39%         44%       37%


                     Switching values                                      % increase
Cost increase to reduce EIRR to 12%                                           300%
Benefits reduction to reduce EIRR to 12%                                       75%

The EIRRs with different scenarios show that changes in assumptions to be made in the evaluation could
alter the yield on the investment. Because the operation and maintenance costs of the capacity improvement
and rehabilitation are relatively small, any variation in maintenance costs would have minimum impact on
the EIRR. A reduction of 20% benefits has the largest impact on the EIRR as noted above. The reduction
of EIRR to 12% will require 300% increase in investment and maintenance costs or benefits reduction to
reduce EIRR to 12%.




                                                     - 44 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              March, 1979                 4    TTL, Engr. Adv., Division Chief,
                                               Municipal Engr.
              June, 1979                  4    TTL, Fin. Analyst., Transp.Eco.,
                                               Public Transp.Exp.
              October, 1979               5    TTL, Fin. Anlyst., Transp.Eco,
                                               Public Transp. Exp., Transp.
                                               Eng.
              February, 1980              2    TTL, Fin. Anlyst
              April, 1980                 7    TTL, Fin. Anlyst, Transp.Eco,
                                               Public Transp.Exp., Transp.
                                               Eng., Engr. Adv, Consultant
              October, 1980               5    TTL, Fin. Anlyst., Transp.Eco,
                                               Consultant, Fin. Anlyst
              February, 1981              2    TTL, Transp. Eco.
              October, 1982               3    Transp. Engr, Urban Transp.
                                               Adv., Division Chief
              February, 1989              6    TTL, Highway Engr, Consultant,
                                               Financial Anlyst, Transp.Eco.,
                                               Road Safety Engr.
              November, 1990              2    TTL, Transp.Planner
              Mar. & Sept., 1991          3    TTL/Fin.Anlyst, Transp.Planner,
                                               Urban Transp. Adv.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              June, 1993                  6    TTL, Sr. Highway Engr.,
                                               Consultant, Transp. Spec.,
                                               Urban Transp. Adv.,
                                               Operations Analyst
              January, 1994               1    Sr Operations Officer
              July, 1994                  8    TTL, Highway Engr., Transp.
                                               Spec, Operations Anlyst, Proc.
                                               Spec. (2), Maint.Mgmt.Spec, IT
                                               Spec.

 Supervision
              November, 1996              4    TTL, Operations Off.,                S               S
                                               Consultant, Oper. Anlyst.
              February, 1997              5    TTL, Operations Off.,                S               S
                                               Consultant, Oper.Anlyst., M&E
                                               Spec.
              June, 1997                  5    TTL, Oper. Anlyst, Cons (3)          S               S
              September, 1997             3    TTL, Cons (2)                        S               S
              November, 1997              5    TTL, Oper.Anlyst, Impl.Supp.         S               S
                                               Off., Cons.(2)
              March, 1998                 7    TTL, Cons (3), Oper.Anlyst,          S               S



                                                - 45 -

                                             Task Team Asst., Sanitary Engr
               May, 1998                5    TTL, Cons (3), Sanitary Engr       U    S
               September, 1998          4    TTL, Cons (2), Sanitary Engr       S    S
               November, 1998           5    TTL, Cons (2), Sanitary Engr,      S    S
                                             Fin. Mgmt Spec
               May, 1999                4    TTL, Oper. Anlyst (2), Impl        U    U
                                             Support Off.
               August, 1999             4    TTL, Cons (3)                      U    U
               November, 1999           5    TTL, Operations Off, Cons (3)      S    U
               February, 2000           4    TTL, Operations Off, Cons (2)      S    S
               June, 2000               6    TTL, Cons (2), Impl.Support        S    S
                                             Off., Fin.Mgmt.Spec, Operations
                                             Off.
               September, 2000          1    TTL                                S    S
               March, 2001              3    TTL, Impl. Support Off., Fin.      S    S
                                             Mgmt. Spec.
               June, 2001               4    TTL, Operations Off., Fin.Mgmt.    S    S
                                             Spec, Cons.
               September 2003           6    TTL, Operations Offr, Impl         U    U
                                             Support Off, Environmental
                                             Engr, Procurement Spec,
                                             Fin.Mgmt Spec
               April, 2004              5    TTL, Operations Off,               U    U
                                             Procurement Spec, Impl Support
                                             Off., Fin.Mgmt Spec
               November, 2004           2    TTL, Engineer                      U    U

 ICR
               September, 2005         3     TTL, Operations Off., Imp.
                                             Support Off.




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            103.9                           230.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 113.3                           275.2
  Supervision                           281.6                           561.9
  ICR                                      6.3                            28.6
  Total                                 505.1                          1096.6




                                             - 46 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 47 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 48 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The following documents used in the preparation of the ICR are available at AFTU1

     a)      Project Implementation Plan: Republic of Kenya, Ministry of Local Government, Transport
             Management Unit (TMU), Kenya Urban Transport Infrastructure Project, April 1995
     b)      Staff Appraisal Report No. 13848-KE: Kenya Urban Transport Infrastructure Project,
             January 3, 1996.
     c)      Development Credit Agreement, February 1996
     d)      Review of the costs of urban road networks in Kenya, Summary of recommendations, 1999.
     e)      Mid-Term Review Report, Kenya Urban Transport Infrastructure Project, March 3, 2000
     f)      QAG Report on quality of supervision, November 2001.
     g)      Forensic Audit Report, 2004




                                                 - 49 -

Additional Annex 8. Review of the costs of urban road works in Kenya


At the request of the Minister for Finance to the Vice President for a consultant to analyze the costs of
construction/rehabilitating roads in Kenya, the WB engaged an independent consultant to undertake this
work. In particular, the consultant was to assess the contract prices for road works under KUTIP in
comparison with contract prices for other similar work. The review assessed: (i) a sample of contracts for
urban roads for the KUTIP, contracts financed from other sources (including the Fuel Levy) in Kenya and
contracts for similar projects in Ghana and Tanzania; and (ii) the integrity and effectiveness of the
procurement process under the project. The first phase of the review was carried out from January 11 to 25
1999 in the Bank headquarters and consisted of a review of available documentation, contracts, and unit
prices relating to the IDA funded KUTIP (or IDA KUTIP) and to projects in Ghana and Tanzania. A
second phase was carried out in Kenya, from March 1 to 11, 1999 to gather information on urban and
interurban road works in Kenya, from the Ministry of Local Authorities (MoLA), in particular on Fuel
Levy-funded KUTIP (or FL KUTIP) roads, the Ministry of Public Works and Housing (MOPWH), the
Central Tender Board (CTB) and from other sources.

The report intended to highlight the key issues and recommendations for improving the delivery of road
infrastructure and services in Kenya. The main findings presented in the report were summarized as
follows:

        ·      the average cost of the Urban Transport Infrastructure Project (KUTIP) IDA financed roads
               reconstruction Program is US$ 236,000 /km; this is within a reasonable range for road
               reconstruction when compared to a project most similar in scope in Tanzania;

        ·      there is an unusually high variation in contract costs for similar road works within Kenya, as
               much as six times the cost from the lowest to highest costs which can be partly explained b
               (i) wide variations in technical specifications, (ii) unclear technical specifications, (iii) lack
               of real competition, including possible collusion, and (iv) contractors escalating the bids in
               anticipation of slow payments or no final payments;

        ·      there is a lack of effective competition among contractors, partly due to inappropriately
               sliced and packaged contracts, which results in higher roads costs;

        ·      there is an unbalanced enforcement of procurement rules and practices in the
        ·      roads construction industry in Kenya; and

        ·      there are many complaints about the poor quality of civil works and late payments for works
               and services performed, and some of these complaints are founded.

Based on these findings, the main recommendations of the report, suggesting an improved way forward for
               the road sector in Kenya, were:

        ·      encourage better competition by adopting a more appropriate slicing and packaging of the
               works, and by informing potential bidders on programs of works well in advance of the
               bidding;

        ·      when faced with high bid prices per kilometer, question: (i) the economic and technical



                                                     - 50 -

  justification; and (ii) the existence of fair and free competition;

· enhance the transparency and efficiency of procurement and contract management by strictly
  enforcing rules which most probably have been relaxed over time, e.g. awarding contracts of
  a particular size (cost) based on the contractor's documented (audited accounts) financial
  position;

· use consistent technical standards and specifications on all urban road works independent of
  the origin of funding;

· set up technical audits for road projects; significant irregularities should lead to question and
  investigation of possible collusion between contractors; consultants and clients; and

· commence the works only when the \total funding package is available in order to ensure
  timely payments.




                                          - 51 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution




                                         - 52 -


