Report No. 945a-PH
Appraisal of a Third Education
Project in the Philippines                                                 FILE C
February 27, 1976
Education Projects Division
East Asia and Pacific Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.,00       =    Pesos 7.471
Pesos 1,000          US$133.85
NEASURES
1 m                 1.09 yd
1 m2           =    10.76 sq ft
1 km2          *    0.38 sq mi
1 hectare           2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/   To be changed to January 1, to December 31 in 1977.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
I.  INTRODUCTION        ..........................................    1
II.  BACKGROUND        ............................................    1
III.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR ....... .....................        3
IV.  THE PROJECT    ...........................................   8
V.  PROJECT COST AND IMPLEMENTATION   .      ................  16
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION    ............................  21
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED .................. ......  ......      23
APPENDICES
1.  Summary of World Bank Group Education Projects
2.  Textbook Development, Printing and Distribution
3.  Educational Mass Media
4.  Technical Assistance
ANNEXES
1.  Comparative Education Indicators
2.  Total Expenditure on Education by Source 1973-75
3.  Public Expenditure for Education by Government Level 1967-75
4.   Education Expenditure of Special Education Fund (SEF) 1973-75
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
5.   Enrollment in Elementary & General Secondary Schools 1967-80
6.   Public Elementary Teachers, 1972-83
7.   Enrollment in Public and Private Vocational Schools and
Universities 1967-80
8.   Proposed Book Production Cycle
9.   Phasing of Book Production by Subject and Grade
10.   Projected Textbook Supply by Year and Grade, 1976-1983
11.  Number of Textbooks and Teachers Guides (TG) to be
Produced by Year of Manufacture/Distribution
12.   Estimated Project Costs by Year and Category of Expenditure
13.   Summary of Estimated Project Costs by Category and Purpose
14.   Contingency Allowances
15.   Summary of Estimated Foreign Exchange Costs by Categories
16.   Responsibilities of Implementing Agencies
17.   Forecast of Disbursements
18.   Detailed Implementation Schedule
19.   Schedule of Staff Appointments for the Textbook Board Secretariat
CHARTS
1.   Educational Pyramid, 1971
2.   Structure of the Formal System of Education
3.   Department of Education and Culture Organization Chart prior to July 1975
4. Department of Education and Culture Organi7ation Chart as of July 1975
5.   Organization of Textbook Production & Distribution
6.   Implementation Schedule



APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
THE PHILIPPINES
BASIC DATA (1974)
Population
Estimated total                                41.4 million
Annual rate of growth                            3-0%    2
Average density                               140 per km
Literacy of Adult Population                         87%
Elementary school enrollment as a
percentage of population aged 7-12                104%
Secondary school enrollment as a
percentage of population aged 13-16                46%
Higher education enrollment as a
percentage of population aged 17-20                21%
Expenditures on Education by Source
US$ Million           %
National government                           223               65
Local government                               42                12
Student fees                                   80               23
345              100
Total national government expenditure
for education as a percentage of
total government expenditure                       14.9%
Total public and private education
expenditure as a percentage of GNP                  3.2%






GLOSSARY
BETDECCO  -    Basic Education Textbook Development Coordinating Council
CDC       -    Curriculum Development Center
CLSU      -    Central Luzon State University
DEC       -    Department of Education and Culture
EDPITAF   -    Education Development Projects Implementing Task Force
MIS       -    Management Information Service
OPS       -    Office of Planning Services
PCAT      -    Philippine College of Arts and Trades
PCPM      -    Philippine Council for Print Media
PIU       -    Project Implementation Unit
PNC       -    Philippine Normal College
RSTC      -    Regional Science Teacher Center
SEF       -    Special Education Fund
SSC       -    Social Studies Center of the Department of Education
and Culture
TPS       -    Textbook Production Service
TG        -    Teacher Guide
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
UNESCO    -    United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
UJPSEC    -    University of the Philippines Science Education Center
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development






PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMKARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a third education project in
the Philippines, for which a loan of US$25.0 million is proposed. The first
lending by the Bank Group for education in the Philippines (Loan 393-PH,
signed in 1964) provided US$6.0 million to the University of the Philippines
at Los Banos for increasing the quantity and improving the quality of higher
level agricultural manpower. The project was satisfactorily completed in
1972. An IDA credit of US$12.7 million was approved in 1973 (Credit 349-PH)
to help finance a second project covering the construction of new facilities
and equipment in science teacher training and in secondary and post-secondary
agricultural education and technical training. The execution of this project
is progressing satisfactorily and the project is expected to be completed on
schedule.
ii.       With high literacy rates and enrollment ratios approaching 100%
for the first eight years of schooling, the Philippines has one of the
strongest education systems of any developing country in terms of enroll-
ments. In addition, there is a comparatively well trained teaching force
and generally adequate physical facilities. Despite these achievements,
much improvement is needed in the quality of instruction. Curricula tend
to be outdated and textbook development has been neglected. There is an
average of only one textbook per subject for ten students, and 80% of available
books are more than five years old. The chronic lack of teaching materials
handicaps the relatively well trained teaching force and compels them to
rely on rote teaching. The result is low quality of instruction as manifested
in poor student achievement and high repetition rates.
iii.      The purpose of the proposed project is twofold:  (a) to develop
the institutional capacity for the continuous development and supply of
relevant textbook material in the Philippines, and (b) to increase over
the next four years the available supply of textbooks in public schools.
In terms of institutional development the project would provide technical
assistance, equipment and facilities to:
(a) reorganize and strengthen the management functions
of the existing Textbook Board;
(b) strengthen five curriculum development centers to
develop curricula, write, test and revise textbooks
in the five principal subject areas;
(c) establish 14 staff development centers and 34 devel-
opment high schools for purposes of testing books
and training teachers in their use; and



- ii -
(d) establish a textbook distribution system consisting
of one national and 107 provincial and sub-provincial
warehouses.
In terms of textbook supply, the project would finance the development of
75 new textbook titles and the manufacture and distribution of 27 million
textbooks. This would be the first phase of an eight year government program
to distribute 98 million new textbooks to public elementary and secondary
schools by 1984. In addition, the project includes financing to develop a
management information system in the Department of Education and to conduct
a pre-investment study on the use of educational mass media.
iv.       Each textbook produced under the project would cost about US$0.79
in 1975 prices including costs of development, paper, printing and distri-
bution. This is about 40% less than books currently being produced largely
because of greater economies of scale envisaged under the project. The total
cost of the project is estimated at US$51.6 million equivalent with a foreign
exchange component of US$25.2 million, or 49% of the total cost. The proposed
loan of US$25.0 million would finance the foreign exchange costs.
v.        The project implementation unit established for the second education
project would be responsible generally for overall administration, financial
control and liaison with the Bank and specifically for implementation of the
physical facilities and technical assistance components of the project. The
Textbook Board would be responsible for contracting for curricula development,
manuscript writing, testing and revision, teacher training, paper procurement,
printing contracts and distribution of books to schools. To expedite imple-
mentation the new implementing rules for the Textbook Board have already
been issued by the Department of Education. A condition of loan effective-
ness would be appointment to the Textbook Board of key staff to implement
the project.
vi.       Contracts would be grouped to the maximum extent possible.  Civil
works contracts exceeding US$500,000, paper contracts above US$100,000, and
equipment and furniture contracts exceeding US$50,000 would be awarded follow-
ing international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Local bidders would be allowed standard preferences. Contracts below these
amounts and those for printing would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with present Government procurement
practices which are acceptable to the Bank. Foreign firms would be allowed
to participate.
vii.      Disbursements would be made over a five-year period against:
(a) 100% of the foreign expenditures of directly imported equipment, furni-
ture and paper; (b) 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
equipment, furniture and paper; (c) 71)% of the cost of imported and locally
procured equipment, furniture and paper; (d) 100% of foreign expenditures
or 60% of the expenditures for technical assistance; (e) 45% of the expend-
itures for printing and delivery; (f) 30% of the expenditures for civil
works, including related professional fees; (g) 15% of the expenditures for



- iii -
textbook development and teacher training.   It is proposed that costs
incurred on the mass media preinvestment study between February 1, 1976 and
loan signing would be eligible for retroactive financing up to a total of
US$50,000 equivalent.
viii.     The proposed project would assist the Government in establishing
the institutional framework needed for continuous curricula development and
textbook production. The strengthened management of the textbook development
process sought under the project should enable: (a) a reduction by about half
in the time required to produce new books; (b) a threefold increase in the
output of new book titles; (c) a tenfold increase in the capacity to produce
new books; (d) a 40% reduction in the average cost per book; and (e) a substan-
tial increase in the quality of books produced. The increased supply of 27
million books should enable the pupil/book ratio per subject to be reduced
from 10:1 to 2:1. Not only would this help raise individual learning
achievements, but the distribution of uniform textbooks equitably throughout
the country would help equalize educational standards between urban and rural
areas.
ix.       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Third
Window Loan of US$25.0 million equivalent to the Republic of the Philippines
with a term of 25 years, including seven years of grace, and interest at
4-1/2% per annum.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bank Group made its first loan for education in the Philippines
(Loan 393-PH) in 1964 to assist with the financing of a development program
for the University of Philippines College of Agriculture at Los Banos. The
main objective of the project was to increase the quantity and improve the
quality of higher level agricultural manpower. The loan of US$6.0 million
helped finance construction of buildings, procurement of equipment, curricu-
lum improvement and staff development. The project was satisfactorily com-
pleted in 1972, within the original cost, 30 months behind the original
schedule due mainly to delays in provision of Government counterpart funds.
The project performance was subsequently audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department. 1/ An IDA credit of US$12.7 million was approved for a second
project in 1973 (Credit 349-PH) to help finance the construction of facilities
and equipment for (a) a curriculum development center and four science
teaching centers; (b) 13 agricultural high schools and two agricultural
colleges; and (c) ten regional skill training centers and three technical
institutes. The execution of this project is progressing satisfactorily,
and the project is expected to be completed on schedule. These projects
are described in further detail in Appendix 1.
1.02      This report presents the findings of an appraisal mission 2/ which
visited the Philippines during June/July 1975 to appraise a third education
project. The project consists of textbook production, distribution and re-
lated teacher training, the establishment of an educational management in-
formation system, and an educational mass media pre-investment study. The
project request was prepared by the Government with the assistance of the
UNESCO/IBRD Cooperative Program.  Since the proposed project was large and
complex, it was agreed during appraisal to limit the project to four years
of textbook production and distribution, rather than eight years as originally
requested, and to consider a second textbook project at a later stage.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Geography and Population.  The Philippines consists of an archi-
pelago of several hundred islands stretching from north to south over 1,500
kilometers between the Pacific Ocean and the South China Sea. The total land
area is 297,000 sq kms. Most (80%) of the population of 41.4 million (1974)
is concentrated on the two main islands of Luzon and Mindanao. Migration
I/   "Project Performance Audit Report:  The Development Program of Univer-
sity of the Philippines College of Agriculture (Loan 393-PH)", Memo-
randum to the Executive Directors, July 30, 1975.
2/   Messrs. A.H. ter Weele (mission leader and educational planner), V.C.
Demetriou (architect), S. Futagami (mass media specialist), J.P. Jallade
(economist) and P.H. Neumann (educational publisher, consultant).



- 2 -
tends towards these two islands, especially towards Central Luzon where the
city of Manila is located. Population density averages 140 per sq km. The
population increased at an annual rate of 3% during the 1960s, but is
believed to be growing currently alt about 2.8%, reflecting in part the
impact of family planning programs. The climate is tropical, with humidity
high, especially during the June-September rainy season. Severe typhoons
are frequent. Transport is difficult due to rough terrain and the need
to combine water and land transporl; for most surface shipments. Much
transport is suspended during the season of rains and typhoons which flood
roads and make travel by boat dangerous.
2.02      Language.  There are eight dominant local languages in the Philip-
pines spoken by 86% of the people, and some 80 dialects spoken by 14% of the
people. Two vernaculars, Cebuano aLnd Pilipino, are each the mother tongue
of 20-25% of the population. Filipino, or Tagalog, is the closest to a
national language, being understood by about 60% of the people. The per-
centage of Pilipino speakers has increased steadily since its introduction
in public schools in the 1950s when about 37% of the population could speak
the language. The distribution of the Pilipino language is not yet uniform
throughout the country. A majority of the population speaks Pilipino in
Manila and surrounding provinces and the island of Mindoro, compared with
only about 15% in the southern provinces of Mindanao and the Sulu Archi-
pelago. English is the most important non-local language, known by about
half the population and used in about half of all publications. English
is the chief language of government, business and industry, mass media,
schools and universities. Scientific and technical knowledge is communi-
cated mainly through English. With few exceptions, the distribution of
English is relatively uniform throughout the country. The language policy
of the Government is to develop a bilingual nation able to communicate in
Pilipino as well as English.
2.03      Education and Health.  With about one quarter of the total popu-
lation (over 10 million persons), earolled in schools and universities, the
Philippines ranks high among developing countries in terms of educational
development. Census responses indicate 87% of the adult population are
literate but this figure may exaggerate actual functional literacy. The
availability of health services in ithe Philippines is approximately typical
for a country at its level of income, but the urban/rural distribution of
services is highly uneven. Malnutr:Ltion among infants and children is a
serious problem, and the Government has launched a program aimed at remedying
the situation.
2.04      The Economy.  In 1973, agriculture accounted for 35% of output,
and employed 53% of the active population. Manufacturing accounted for
21% of output, and 11% of employment. Services accounted for the remain-
ing 44% of output and 36% of employment. The growth in real GNP, which
had been about 5%-6% during the sixties, doubled to 10% in 1973, slowed
to 6% in 1974 and is expected to be 5% in 1975. CNP per capita was US$310
in 1974. Approximately 10% of the labor force in urban areas is openly
unemployed. An additional 15% of the labor force is underemployed. Post-
war economic growth has not changed the historic pattern of highly skewed



distribution of income. The Goverment is taking steps to distribute the
benefits of growth more widely, through increased irrigation, feeder roads,
water supply and health facilities.
2.05      Recent Trends.  The Philippine economy is vulnerable to increases
in the world price of oil and to world-wide inflation and recession, since
imported oil accounts for more than 90% of the country's energy requirements
and international trade for more than 40% of its GNP. However, the 1973
boom in the price of a number of export commodities such as coconuts, sugar
and forestry products has meant that the country has been able to maintain
a relatively satisfactory rate of growth despite the tumultuous events in
the world economv of late 1973. Inflation became a major problem in 1974
(consumer prices increased by 40%) and led to a deterioration of real in-
comes, but it was reduced sharply (to 10%) in 1975.
III. T1E EDUCATION SECTOR
Summary Evaluation
3.01      The most striking feature of the Philippine education system is
its high enrollment ratios at all levels. In quantitative terms, the coun-
try has achieved:
(a)  universal enrollment at the elementary level and
an enrollment ratio of 46% at the secondary level
(Chart 1);
(b)  one of the highest tertiary level enrollment ratios
(21%) in the world (Annex 1);
(c)  high percentages of qualified teachers (more than
95% of elementary school teachers are certified,
and three-quarters of those have university degrees);
(d)  reasonable pupil/teacher ratios (31:1 in public
elementary schools and 35:1 at the secondary
level); and
(e)  an adult literacy rate of 87%.
3.02      Despite these quantitative achievements, the educational system
still has the following key weaknesses:
(a)  ineffective management due to an uncoordinated
bureaucracy, inadequate planning, and a lack of
statistics to guide decision-making;
(b)  outdated curricula which do not reflect scien-
tific, economic, or political developments of the
past decade; and



(c) a serious lack of textbooks and other teaching aids
(in the average subject, there is one book for every
ten pupils).
As a result of the shortage of texitbooks and other educational materials the
well qualified teaching staff is hmndicapped in its work. Reliance must be
placed on learning by rote to an undesirable extent. The result is low qual-
ity which is manifested in poor exalmination performances, and high dropout
and repeater rates at the upper stages of each cycle.
3.03      Educational Structure and Administration.  The Philippines education
system (Chart 2) is comprised of a six-year elementary level (sub-divided into
a four-year primary and a two-year intermediate cycle), a four-year secondary
level and a four-year tertiary level, followed by further post-graduate pro-
grams.  Thus the combined elementary-secondary program is ten years long.
3.04      The formulation of educational policy lies formally with the
National Board of Education, chaired by the Secretary of Education and Cul-
ture. Administrative responsibility for public schools and non-chartered
colleges, as well as supervision oil private schools, rests with the Depart-
ment of Education and Culture (DEC'). The DEC was reorganized in July 1975.
Under the reorganization, three bureaus by types of school (public, vocational
and private, Chart 3) have been replaced by three integrated bureaus organized
by level of education (elementary,. secondary and higher education, Chart 4).
Staff services such as the Office of Planning Services have been strengthened.
The previous three parallel field organizations have been consolidated into a
single organization comprised of 12 regions. The consolidation of the field
organizations is a distinct improvement over past practices. Establishment
of 12 regional bureaus could speed up decision making on local matters if
accompanied by decentralization of authority as planned.
3.05      Reorganization is one step to improving educational administration
and planning. To be effective, it must be accompanied by an improvement in
data collection. Educational managers presently lack the regular flow of
up-to-date information which is necessary if they are to Improve their
decision-making. Basic educationaL statistics are inaccurate and out of
date. Extensive data were collected during the 1970 Presidential Survey,
but have not been updated since. Moreover, reorganization of the DEC into
12 regional bureaus means that staitistics must now be aggregated by region.
3.06      Elementary Education.  E:Lementary enrollment is universal, although
there is much repetition and dropout (about 15% of each class) and many first
graders (40%) are over the prescribed seven year old entering age. Most (95%)
of pupils attend public schools (Annex 5). The teaching force is generally well
trained. More than 95% of the 230,000 public elementary school teachers (Annex
6) are officially classified as fuLly qualified and about three-quarters of
these are four-year college graduates. Most of the remainder are graduates
from two-year normal colleges or from agricultural and arts and trades col-
leges. The pupil/teacher ratio is low (31:1 in public elementary schools),
and school facilities are adequate. One of the most serious problems is the



-5  .
lack of textbooks (para 3.13). There are few books, and most of those avail-
able are located in urban schools and are over five years old.
3.07      Secondary Education. About 461 of the secondary school age group
attend school, somewhat more than half of these (52%) in private schools.
About 6Z of the total secondary students are enrolled in 900 vocational-
technical schools (Annex 7). Growth of enrollment was 10% p.a. during the
1960s. It has declined to 6% p.a. for the period 1970-1975 since the Govern-
ment has not invested in public secondary school construction. On the whole,
opportunities for secondary schooling are reasonably well distributed, with
participation rates varying from 22% in Western Mindanao and 24% in Eastern
Visayas to 46Z_in Ilocos and 54Z in Southern Tagalog.  Pupil/teacher ratios
are reasonable (34:1 in private schools and 38i1 in public schools) and
teachers well-qualified (about 95% are college graduates in education).
However, as in primary schools, instructional materials are in short supply
and inadequate in content.
3.08      A 1970 presidential survey (para 3.17) recommended that curricula
in general and vocational secondary schools be merged into a single program
of study. The program would include compulsory courses for all students
in agriculture, industrial arts, homemaking, fishing and business arts
throughout the four years of secondary school. Survey courses in at least
three of these areas would be provided during the first and second year.
Pupils would pursue a variety of electives within these areas in some depth
during the third and fourth years. Implementation of the reform is progres-
sing slowly since most secondary schools have neither vocational facilities
nor specialist teachers. DEC calculations suggest that the workshops re-
quired to implement the reform would cost more to build and equip than the
DEC can afford (about US$600 million). Moreover, provision of the many
workshops and specialist teachers necessary to provide the range of choices
required by the new curriculum would be uneconomic in all but a few large
schools. Prior to any large scale investment in workshops or vocational
teaching materials the reform should be reconsidered in light of the above,
and curricula redesigned.
3.09      Higher Education. Higher education in the Philippines begins after
10 years of primary and secondary schooling rather than after 12 years as
in many countries. Thus, although the participation rate is high (21%), it
is not wholly comparable to other countries. Most students (93%) attend pri-
vate institutions, and 40% are in Manila, although educational opportunities
are substantial in other regions. Opportunities for women are excellent, and
the participation rate for women is higher than that for men. The quality of
higher education varies. Investments have improved the quality of graduates
from selected institutions, but graduates from many institutions are poorly
trained. Facilities, equipment, and instructional materials are good in a
few select institutions, but they are typically scarce or non-existent. In
the best institutions, 50% of the staff hold post-graduate degrees, but the
staff in most institutions hold few post-graduate degrees.
3.10      Language Policy in Education. A new, bilingual education policy
was announced in June, 1974. Prior to June 1974 the vernacular served as



-6-
the medium of instruction in the first two grades and English thereafter.
Under the new policy, English is the medium of instruction for all science
and mathematics courses and Pilipino is the medium for all other subjects
regardless of grade. The vernacular may be used as an auxiliary medium of
instruction in the first two grades. This means that teachers in grades
one and two may teach part of tihe time in a local dialect, but books and
teaching materials are not written in the auxiliary medium. The Implemen-
tation of this policy is to be phased over an eight-year period and be com-
pleted by 1982.
3.11      One objective of the nmew language policy is to create a cohesive
nation through development of a unifying national language (Pilipino) while
maintaining the widely spoken non-national language (English) which is suited
to mathematics and science. The policy seems to be a workable compromise to
achieve both objectives. However, its Implementation will pose difficulties
for a minority of the population in certain sections of the country (about
15%-20%, particularly in Southern Mindanao) which speaks little Pilipino at
present (para. 2.02). In these sections of the country it will be necessary
to accompany introduction of the bilingual education policy with intensive
language training in Pilipino, and possibly to extend the period of adoption
beyond the planned eight years.
3.12      Textbooks (Appendix 2).  The Textbook Board within the administra-
tive framework of the DEC (Chart: 4) controls textbook development. The Board
invites submissions of textbook rmanuscripts from publishers and authors, and
approves approximately three titles per subject at any grade level for use
in public schools. Manuscripts are written largely by private publishers
and individual teachers, and to a limited extent by curriculum centers such
as the University of the Philippines Science Education Center, the DEC's
Social Studies Center (both of wrhich are receiving assistance under Credit
349-PH), and the Language Study Center at the Philippine Normal College.
Development of titles which would be unprofitable to private sector pub-
lishers is undertaken by the DEC (e.g. teacher guides in secondary school
vocational subjects are developed for the DEC by the Philippine College of
Arts and Trades). The Textbook Production Service of the DEC contracts with
private firms for printing of books under price guidelines set by the Price
Committee of the Textbook Board. The Service also contracts with private
freight forwarders for book distribution. Payment for books ordered cen-
trally is made by the DEC and for books ordered locally by local government.
The present policy of the Government is not to charge public school students
for books.
3.13      The process for developing and distributing books has not proved
satisfactory. The supply of books has been irregular, insufficient and the
quality of the books is often poor. The development of new textbook titles
for publication takes an average of six years. It is estimated that in the
public schools in any one subject there is only one book for every 9.8 pupils
in grades 1-4, one for every 11.5 pupils in grades 5-6, and one for every
8.5 pupils in secondary school. Another 50 million textbooks would be
needed throughout the public school system to provide each pupil with one
textbook on each subject. The main reason for the lack of textbooks is



- 7 -
the absence of an institution to develop and supply textbooks to schools
regularly. In 1967, at the end of a textbook project under bilateral
assistance, 6-8 million books were being provided to schools annually. With-
out an institution to continue supplying books regularly, however, the output
rapidly declined to one million books in 1973 and 60,000 in 1974.
3.14      There are qualitative weaknesses in addition to quantitative short-
comings. About 80% of the books are at least five years old, in poor condi-
tion, and outdated. The books lack continuity in subject matter from grade
to grade, since the Textbook Board has in the past selected single textbooks
from series produced by different publishers. They are inconsistent in the
level of language proficiency demanded of pupils, and they provide no rein-
forcement in content between related subject areas. Most of these qualita-
tive shortcomings are the result of lack of coordination between author teams,
and the lack of any program of required testing of prototype books prior to
their large scale purchase by the DEC. It is necessary to place all
authority to direct and coordinate textbook development and testing into
a single agency if these shortcomings are to be remedied.
3.15      Electronic Media.  Radio broadcasts are used in elementary and
adult education, in-service teacher training and in agricultural extension
(Appendix 3). Despite the variety of educational radio and television
activities, little is known about their success and they appear to have
had only a marginal impact which may be attributable to their unsystematic
use and lack of follow up. Given the potential for widespread quality im-
provement in education through the use of mass media, particularly in rural
areas, the Government plans to undertake an evaluation of results achieved
thus far and the possible role of modern technology in Philippine education.
3.16      Educational Financing.  The total amount of funds (public and
private) allocated to education in 1975 is estimated at P 3,000 million
(3.2% of GNP), two-thirds from the national government. National govern-
ment expenditures devoted to education increased by 215% between 1968-74
from P 941 million to P 2,019 million (Annexes 2 and 3). Despite this in-
crease in absolute terms, the share of the national Government expenditures
devoted to education decreased from 32% to 15% over the same period. Two
factors contributed to the relative decline: the total government budget
increased steeply (460%) and increases in teacher salaries were restricted.
Most (85%) of the national government expenditure on education is devoted
to elementary schools, which are the responsibility of the national government.
Public secondary schools are supported by local government finance which
varies according to the income of the region. One consequence of this is
a substantial variation in the quality of instruction according to the
income of the locality. Another characteristic of educational financing
is that 90% of public operating expenditures on education pay for salaries
and other personnel costs. Hardly any provision is made for textbooks and
other supplies. However, a Special Education Fund was created in 1973 and
between 1973 and 1975 increased the funds available for textbooks from
P 6.8 million to P 21.5 million (Annex 4).



-8-
3.17      Development Priorities.  During the 1960s, Government policies
emphasized improvements in the training of middle and higher levels of agri-
cultural, industrial, and scientific manpower. A new national education
development strategy for the period 1973 to 1982 was developed by a 1970
Presidential survey of the educaition sector. The survey proposes that
priority be given to improve educational quality, to strengthen educational
administration, to redress imbalances of educational opportunities between
rural and urban areas, and to increase Governmental control over tertiary
level schooling. Improved educational quality is to be achieved by updating
curricula, integrating academic and vocational studies of the secondary level,
and producing textbooks based on the updated and revised curricula. Also,
the Government is to investigate ways in which it could use satellite com-
munication and other mass media to improve quality. Educational administra-
tion is to be strengthened through reorganization of the DEC (para 3.04),
better planning, and provision to managers of a regular flow of up-to-date
information. The imbalance of educational opportunities between rural and
urban areas is to be redressed through construction of new secondary schools
in rural areas. Increased Government control of tertiary level schooling is
to be achieved by introducing a program of certification and by increasing
the Government's financial participation in tertiary level schools. The
strategies to improve educational quality and to strengthen administration
are generally sound. The strategies to redress educational imbalances at
the secondary level and to increase Government control over education at
the tertiary level would generate recurrent costs which the Government
probably could not afford.
3.18      Presidential Decree No. 6-A (of 1972) established the machinery
to implement the new development strategy. It authorized the appropriation
of P 50 million per annum for a period of 10 years for development projects.
It established a Special Education Committee (comprised of the Secretary of
Education and Culture, the Secretary of Finance and the Commissioner of the
Budget) to administer the fund, and the Education Development Projects Im-
plementing Task Force (EDPITAF) to implement projects. Thus far, the Gov-
ernment has succeeded in its reorganization plans, and in establishing
EDPITAF as a strong agency capable of implementing the Government's reform
projects. It has also begun a program of curriculum development in math-
ematics, science and social studie!s and is compiling educational statistics
for the years 1971-1974. Little progress has been made in provision of more
and better textbooks.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The overall purpose of the project is to develop the institutional
capacity for the continuous development and supply of relevant textbook mate-
rial in the Philippines. This involves two aspects: (a) the establishment
or strengthening of local Institutions to develop and distribute textbooks,
and (b) the production and distribution of 27 million textbooks as the first
phase of a program to introduce 98 million new textbooks into public primary
and secondary schools by 1984.



4.02      In terms of institutional development the project would provide
technical assistance, equipment and facilities:
(a)  to expand the functions of the Textbook Board for
management of textbook development at all stages;
(b)  to establish or extend five curriculum development
centers to develop curricula, write, test and revise
textbooks in five primary and five secondary school
subjects;
(c)  to establish 14 staff development centers and 34
development high schools as a network for testing
books and training 250,000 teachers in the use of
the new textbooks; and
(d)  to establish a distribution system consisting of one
national and 107 provincial and sub-provincial ware-
houses for transporting books from printers to schools.
In terms of textbook supply, the project would help finance the development
of 75 new textbook titles and the manufacture and distribution of 27 million
textbooks.
4.03      In addition to the textbook component, the project would help:
(a) establish an educational management information system to provide
educational managers with a regular flow of up-to-date information, and
(b) finance a pre-investment study on use of educational mass media,
particularly satellite communication.
Textbook Production and Distribution (Proposed Outlay: US$35.3 Million)
4.04      Management of Textbook Development.  A key objective of the proj-
ect is strengthening the textbook development process. This would be accom-
plished by expanding the functions, staffing and facilities of the Textbook
Board (para 3.12). The Board would continue to exercise its present func-
tion of approving manuscripts of textbooks for use in public schools. In
addition, it would assume major new responsibilities for integrated manage-
ment of all textbook development activities from initial planning of text-
books through the manufacturing and distribution of textbooks to schools.
New responsibilities of the Textbook Board would include contracting for
curriculum development and textbook writing and testing, and working with
curriculum developers and author teams to develop outlines of textbooks
and textbook series, their specifications, and scope and sequence charts.
The Board would provide curriculum developers and author teams with profes-
sional editorial advice and support in areas such as photography, design,
typesetting and printing of prototype editions for testing purposes. It
would monitor contracts at prescribed stages, supervise testing and revisions,
and coordinate the work of various author teams. Books developed under con-
tract to the Board would receive automatic approval for use in public schools.



- 10 -
An advisory council (the Basic Education Textbook Development Coordinating
Council-BETDECCO) would be formecl to advise on priorities for development
of textbooks.  In addition, the Textbook Board would take on the new function
of textbook manufacturing and distribution. To accomplish this change the
Textbook Production Service of the DEC would be transferred to the Board
(para 4.11).
4.05      To perform its major new functions effectively, the Textbook Board
requires (a) a new Departmental order establishing administrative guidelines,
(b) a full-time professional secretariat comprised of senior editors, design-
ers, production staff and teacher trainers (details of staffing are provided
in Chart 5), and (c) centralized facilities to service curriculum development
centers in design, typesetting and small scale printing. Bank financing would
be provided for technical assistance, furniture and equipment for offices and
for a shop to do printing, design work and typesetting for the secretariat of
the Textbook Board.
4.06      During negotiations agreement was reached on reorganization of
the Textbook Board, a schedule of staff appointment to its secretariat and
amendments to the implementing rules of the DEC for the Textbook Board.
These rules have been issued formally by the Secretary, DEC. These amended
rules and regulations cover the organization and operating procedures for
the expanded responsibilities of the Board. In particular, the rules and
regulations permit the Board to contract with private publishers for manu-
script development. Agreement was also reached on the composition of the
textbook advisory council (BETDECCO), including representation of the pri-
vate publishing industry. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the Government would maintain at all times (a) BETDECCO with composition
and functions acceptable to the Bank and (b) qualified and experienced
personnel within the secretariat of the Textbook Board, including the following
key personnel: a director, editor-in-chief, head of production unit, and
head of the manufacturing unit. Appointment of these key personnel would be
a condition of effectiveness of the project.
4.07      Curriculum Development/Nanuscript Writing.  The textbook development
cycle (Annex 8) would be comprised of one year for planning and writing, one
school year for testing and revisions, and the following year for printing,
binding and distribution. Although private publishers would be allowed to
participate, most curriculum development and manuscript writing would be con-
ducted by five designated curriculum development centers under contract to the
Textbook Board, as follows:



- 11 -
Subject Area        Designated Curriculum Development Center
Science & Mathematics    University of the Philippines
Science Education Center
Social Studies            Department of Education and Culture
Social Studies Center
Languages                 Philippine Normal College
Language Studies Center
Vocational Arts           Philippine College of Arts and Trades
Practical Arts Center
Homemaking, Fishing,      Central Luzon State University
Agriculture                 Rural Studies Center
The Science and Social Studies Centers are currently receiving assistance
under Credit 349-PH. The Language Studies Center is receiving no assistance
but has experience in curriculum development and textbook writing in both
English and Pilipino. The Practical Arts and Rural Studies Centers would be
established as part of the project. At the request of the Textbook Board
the centers would (a) develop curricula, (b) write manuscripts, (c) test
and revise prototype books, and (d) train teachers in the use of books.
Since curricula in vocational arts, homemaking, fishing and agriculture
must be redesigned prior to any large scale investment in related teaching
materials (para 3.08), the Practical Arts and Rural Studies Centers would
focus on development of experimental instructional materials. The Science,
Social Studies and Language Centers would produce 39 textbook titles and 36
associated teacher guides between 1976 and 1980. Of these, 11 textbook
titles and their associated guides are presently being field tested, and
development of another 11 titles and associated guides is well advanced.
By 1980 the three centers would have another 21 textbook titles and 14
associated teacher guides in various stages of development (Annex 9). Bank
financing would be provided: (a) to construct the Language and Vocational
Studies Centers, since the Normal College and the College of Arts and Trades
cannot provide them with adequate facilities; (b) to help furnish and equip
all five curriculum centers; and (c) for contracts to develop curricula and
write manuscripts.
4.08      Testing.  The second year of the textbook development cycle would
be devoted to testing of about 2,500 prototype textbooks in representative
classrooms. Testing would be conducted during a full school year in one
classroom in a minimum of 40 representative schools. The purpose of the
testing program would be to afford a reasonable opportunity to revise and
improve the textbooks before full scale production. Testing would often
result in development of two or more versions of a textbook, each version
suitable for pupils of different abilities and backgrounds. Bank funds
would be used to help finance the testing of prototype textbooks. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that prototypes of all titles to be printed



- 12 -
under the proposed project would receive a full year of tryout and subse-
quent revision prior to wide scalet distribution.
4.09      Teacher Training.  Under the project 250,000 teachers would be
trained in the use of textbooks. Training would be provided through a net-
work of project curriculum development centers (para 4.07), regional staff
development centers, and development schools. At the national level, the
five project curriculum development centers would provide training in their
respective areas for the staff of 14 regional staff development centers
attached to teacher training institutions. Nine of the staff centers would
be expansions of existing Regional Science Teaching Centers (four of which
have been established with the assistance of Credit 349-PH) and five new
centers would be established as part of the project. The 14 staff development
centers would provide training for the staff of 34 development high schools
and primary schools. Staff of the development schools would in turn conduct
short courses (about three days) for teachers in their regions. Each of the
development high schools would be provided with the laboratory equipment
necessary to upgrade teachers in laboratory work in which most of them are
weak. The staff development centers and development high schools have been
selected for their geographic spreaLd, their high quality, and the willingness
of their staff to participate in the project. The network of staff develop-
ment centers and development schools would also be used to support the manus-
cript testing (para 4.08) program of the curriculum development centers.
4.10      Bank financing would be provided to help pay teacher stipends at
teacher workshops and provide equipment for the 14 staff development centers
and the 34 development high schools. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that prior to carrying out a detailed teacher training program is
methods of using textbooks in classroom teaching, the Government would send
its proposed program to the Bank for review, and would provide adequate
language instruction for teachers and students in regions where testing
of textbooks indicates that such instruction is required (para 3.10).
4.11      Management of Textbook Manuufacture and Distribution.  The Textbook
Production Service of the DEC, responsible for textbook printing and distri-
tion, would be transferred to the Textbook Board (para 4.04). Given the
larger scale of operations proposed, however, the staffing for book produc-
tion would need to be expanded by aclding specialists in textbook printing
and binding, paper procurement and sitorage, and textbook distribution.
(Details of staffing are provided in Chart 5.) The manufacturing unit of
the Textbook Board would purchase paper in bulk, let contracts for the
printing and binding of books, monitor the contracts, and manage all aspects
of distribution of books from printers to schools.  Bank financing would --
help to provide appropriate technical assistance and to furnish and equip
office space.



- 13 -
4.12      Paper, Printing and Binding.  The Government has developed an
eight-year program for increasing the supply of textbooks in public pri-
mary and secondary schools as follows:
Primary School      Secondary School      Total
----…----thousands of books---
Phase I
1976-77                   4,581                 759            5,340
1977-78                   5,502                 331            5,833
1978-79                   5,243                 640            5,883
1979-80                   8,189               1,604            9,793
Sub-Total           23,515               3,334           26,849
Phase II
1980-81                   9,164               7,602           16,766
1981-82                   9,622               3,563           13,185
1982-83                  15,016               5,147           20,163
1983-84                  11,223              10,249           21,472
Sub-Total           45,025              26,561           71,586
TOTAL               68,540              29,895           98,435
Source:  Annexes 10 and 11.
The proposed project would finance the paper, printing and binding required
to manufacture the 27 million textbooks required under phase one of the pro-
gram.
4.13       Paper would be bought in bulk and provided with a watermark to
facilitate inventory control. Paper specifications would be appropriate to
its use (a function of page size, the kind of printing presses on which books
are to be printed, the projected life of books, the binding to be used and
whether books are to be used more than one year and printed in one, two, or
four colors). Printing would generally be done on web-fed (roll-fed) presses
for larger printing runs, and smaller runs might be printed on sheet-fed
presses. During the first two years of the project textbooks would be
printed in one color, on book paper, and would have an expected life of
three years. Later, as the curriculum development centers become more
experienced, two- and four-color books may be printed, and workbooks may
be developed and printed on newsprint. Binding would generally be saddle
*stitch for shorter books (128 pages or less), perfect binding for longer
books, and perfect binding or side stitch for teacher guides. Local printers
have indicated plans to invest in improved perfect binding equipment. The
textbook production section of the Textbook Board would specify that binding
glues be of high quality, and insect and water resistant.
4.14      Bank financing would help pay for costs of paper, printing and
binding. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the loan would



- 14 -
not be used to reproduce any textbook or any part of any textbook without
the full consent of its author and/or publisher and payment of appropriate
royalties.
4.15      Distribution.  The project would establish a national textbook
distribution system comprised of aL central textbook warehouse in Manila
and 107 provincial and sub-provincial warehouses. After completion of
the project in 1980 the warehouses would be used to distribute the average
18 million textbooks the Government intends to continue producing annually
(para 4.12). The location and size of the warehouses have been determined
by a detailed engineering study. Printers would deliver books to the
central warehouse, where they would be packaged by the school of destina-
tion to minimize later repackaging. The Textbook Board would contract with
transporters and forwarding agents to transport books from the central ware-
house to provincial and sub-provincial warehouses.  Transport would be by land,
sea and air. Public school principals would be provided funds at division
education offices for transporting books to their schools, generally by
public transport. Distribution would be equitable, pro-rated on the/basis
of one book per subject for each two pupils in each public school at the
relevant grade level. The Government is planning to test the improved
distribution procedures through delivery of limited numbers of books
before large-scale delivery of pro-Ject books begins in early 1977.
4.16      Bank financing would be provided to help pay for book distribu-
tion and to construct, furnish and equip the national textbook warehouse
and the 107 provincial warehouses and sub-provincial warehouses. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that, within six months after signing of
the Loan Agreement, or other period as may be mutually agreed, the Government
would submit to the Bank a schedule for developing appropriate accounting
procedures for the budgeting and disbursement of funds for textbook manu-
facture and delivery, for developing warehouse inventory control and dis-
patch procedures, for appointing and training warehouse managers and for
instituting a system to audit book deliveries to schools.
4.17      Classroom Use.  School principals would be responsible for the
care and storage of books at the scliool level. They would arrange through
classroom teachers for the loan of textbooks to students free of charge in
accordance with the present policy of the DEC (para 3.12). Each class
would have an average of one book per subject for every two students.
One student would receive the book on loan in a subject, another student
a book in a different subject. During classroom hours the book would be
shared between two students. This sharing is facilitated by the typical
classroom furniture which seats more than one student per desk. After
school hours the books can be exchanged among students as needed. This
system has been used extensively in the Philippines and works well in
practice. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government



- 15 -
would consult with the Bank prior to changing its present policy relating
to charges on the distribution of textbooks in public schools.
4.18      Evaluation.  The testing manager of the Textbook Board would be
responsible for evaluating the textbook component of the project and the
liaison manager of the Board for evaluating the teacher training component.
Evaluation of the textbook component would include data on the actual number
of books printed and delivered to schools, as well as an analysis of the re-
sults of the program of testing prototypes (para 4.08). Moreover, it would
include a program to measure the incremental change in learning achievement
which results from provision of the textbooks. A program of testing student
achievement would be initiated in a sample of schools across the country.
The testing manager of the Textbook Board would direct the program which
would be supervised in the field by the staff of the 14 staff development
centers and 34 development high schools. The testing program would be
initiated in schools in advance of introduction of the books in order to
provide at least one year of baseline data on pupil achievement without
project books. Evaluation of the teacher training component of the project
would include data on the number of workshop participants and an analysis
of the effectiveness of the training. Its main purpose would be to provide
information to be used to improve the workshops. Bank financing would be
provided for contracts to develop and conduct the evaluation program.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would submit to
the Bank within six months after the sigaing of the Loan Agreement details
of the evaluation program covering textbook testing, learning achievements
from textbooks and teacher training.
Management Information System (Proposed Outlay:  US$0.2 million)
4.19      In support of its reorganization (para 3.04) and its intentions
to strengthen planning and management, the DEC has embarked on a program
to introduce a management information system within its Office of Planning
Services (Chart 4). The system would provide for centralized computer proc-
essing of statistics (concerning pupils, teachers, educational finances,
school facilities, instructional equipment and textbooks) which are necessary
to improve policy-making, administration and planning. Introduction of the
system would entail: (a) setting priorities regarding data needs; (b) de-
signing and testing forms and procedures for data collection and processing;
(c) scheduling and phasing implementation; (d) computer programming; and
(e) staff training. Adequate computer facilities are available in Manila.
The Bank loan would help finance specialist services required to design and
introduce the system, to train staff and to help purchase modest amounts of
office equipment, furniture and vehicles.
Mass Media Pre-Investment Study (Proposed Outlay: US$0.4 million)
4.20      The Government is considering the extensive use of satellite
communication and other mass media for formal and non-formal education



- 16, -
(para 3.15). To provide a sound basis for decision making and to select
the most effective strategy for introducing educational technology, the
Government has proposed to undertake a pre-investment study. The study
would be conducted jointly by national and international specialists
under the leadership of an Inter-Agency Planning Committee within the DEC
created for this purpose. With UNDP assistance, the Committee convened a
workshop in July 1975 to draft terms of reference for the study team. The
Government intends to start the study in March 1976. This date would allow
completion before the end of 1976 when allocations of channels on avail-
able satellites are expected to be made. It is recommended that the Bank
provide retroactive financing of an 4agreed portion of the technical
assistance costs incurred after February 1, 1976 for the study, up to a
maximum of US$50,000.
Technical Assistance
4.21      Including the information slystem and mass media study, the project
includes 24 man-years of fellowships and 27 man-years of local and expatriate
specialist services (Appeudix 4). Apiproximately 56 educators and administra-
tors would receive training overseas in fields related to the project, such as
book production. The major part of this training would be practical, on-the-
job apprenticeship. Specialist services would be provided in fields related
to the project, e.g. textbook publishing. The Government gave assurances
during negotiations that specialists acceptable to the Bank would be
appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and that the select-
ion criteria, procedures for awards of fellowships, and programs of study to
be financed by the proposed loan would be acceptable to the Bank.
V. PROJECT COST AND IMPLEMENTATION
5.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at P 387.0 million
or US$51.6 million equivalent (Annex 12-13). The estimated cost by main
project item is summarized below:



- 17 -
SUMMARY OF COSTS
Pesos (miilions)        US$ (millions)
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total
1. Textbook Development
Management, Textbook Board       17.41    9.70  27.11   2.32   1.29   3.61
5 Curriculum Dev. Centers        40.79    9.33  50.12   5.44   1.25   6.69
Sub-total 1          58.20   19.03  77.23   7.76   2.54  10.30
2. Teacher Training
14 Staff Development Centers    0.63    5.67   6.30   0.08   0.76   0.84
34 Development High Schools       1.35   12.13  13.48   0.18   1.62   1.80
Seminars and Workshops           22.50    2.50  25.00   3.00   0.33   3.33
Sub-total 2          24.48   20.30  44.78   3.26   2.71   5.97
3. Textbook Manufacture,
Storage and Distribution
Management, TPS                   0.32    0.61   0.93   0.04   0.08   0.12
Paper                             1.94   46.62  48.56   0.26   6.22   6.48
Printing                         29.22   23.91  53.13   3.90   3.18   7.08
National Warehouse                4.78    2.75   7.53   0.63   0.37   1.00
107 Provincial and Sub-
provincial Warehouses           9.31    5.43  14.74   1.24   0.73   1.97
Delivery of Textbooks            10.53    7.01  17.54   1.41   0.93   2.34
Sub-total 3          56.10   86.33 142.43   7.48  11.51  18.99
4. Management Information
System                            0.51    1.31   1.82   0.06   0.18   0.24
5. Mass Media Pre-Investment
Study                             1.30    1.31   2.61   0.17   0.18   0.35
Base Costs                      140.59  128.28 268.87  18.73  17.11  35.85
Contingencies
Physical                         14.06   12.83  26.89   1.88   1.71   3.59
Price Increases                  43.22   48.00  91.22   5.76   6.40  12.16
Sub-total Contingencies  57.28   60.83 118.11   7.64   8.11  15.75
TOTAL PROJECT COST        197.87  189.11 386.98  26.37  25.23  51.60



- 18 -
5.02      Each textbook produced under the project would cost an average of
US$0.51 in December 1975 prices for paper and printing and US$0.79 including
costs of development testing anad distribution. These costs are based on de-
tailed calculations derived from recent experience with manuscript develop-
ment at UPSEC (para 4.07), international textbook paper costs, recent print-
ing contract awards and internal transportation rates. Textbooks developed
by the UPSEC presently cost an average of US$1.30 without delivery. Greater
volume of production and economies of scale account for the lower costs per
book anticipated under the pro;ject.
5.03      The estimated construction costs for the proposed project have been
based on anticipated December 1975 prices, and are derived from experience
with other Bank/IDA financed projects in the Philippines. Construction costs
per square meter of gross floor area are estimated at an average of US$130.00
equivalent. Costs have been adjusted to accommodate improvements in design
and construction peculiar to the individual project items (such as higher
floor bearing capacities in the warehouses and to withstand seasonal typhoons
and earth tremors). Estimated site development costs are 15% of the building
cost. Furniture and equipment cost estimates are based on 1975 prices and
on approximate lists of quantities related to the program requirements. All
sketch plans and bidding docume!nts for civil works and the major components
of furniture and equipment lists would be reviewed by the Bank before procure-
ment.
5.04      Project costs include! a physical contingency allowance which
averages 10% of the base cost estimate and a price contingency allowance
of US$12.2 million equivalent. This price contingency was estimated on the
basis of an expected decline in price increases for local and foreign comr
ponents (Annex 14) between 1976 and 1980 as follows:
Local        Foreign
1976   1980    1976   1980
(annual percentage)
1.   Civil Works                      14     10       14     10
2.   Furniture and Equipment          10      8       10      10
3.   Teacher Training                  8      8       12       8
4.   Curr. and Manuscript Dev.        10       8      12       8
5.   Paper                            14      10      12      10
6.   Other Categories                  8       8      12       8
5.05      The foreign exchange component including contingencies totals US$25.2
million equivalent (Annex 14) and represents 49% of the total project cost. It
has been calculated on the basis of (i) 30% for civil works, (ii) 35% for fur-
niture, (iii) 90% for equipment, (iv) 20% for professional services, (v) 61%
for technical assistance, (vi) 10% for teacher training, (vii) 13% for text-
book development, (viii) 96% forC paper, (ix) 45% for printing, and (x) 40%
for delivery.



- 19 -
Project Financing
5.06      The total project cost of US$51.6 million would be financed as fol-
lows: (a) the proposed Bank Loan of US$25.0 million (48% of total project
cost) would meet 100X of the foreign exchange cost; and (b) the Government
would finance the remaining cost of US$26.6 million (52% of total project
costs).
5.07      The annual additional recurrent expenditure generated by this
project when it is in full operation in 1980 would be about P 108 million
in December 1975 prices for additional textbooks (18 million textbooks at
P 6.00 per book) and P 5 million for the operating costs of the Textbook
Board and curriculum development centers. Altogether these expenditures
are equal to 4.4% of the national government expenditure on education in
1975. These incremental expenditures are substantial. During negotiations
the Government agreed that it would commit sufficient resources to carry
through with the second phase of the textbook supply program (para. 4.12).
Project Implementation
5.08      Administration.  The existing project unit in the Department of
Education and Culture (EDPITAF), in charge of the implementation of the
second education project (Credit 349-PH), would be responsible specifically
for the implementation of the physical facilities and technical assistance
components of the project and the overall administration, financial control
and liaison with the Bank for the entire project. Teacher training, curricu-
lum and textbook development, paper procurement, textbook printing and dis-
tribution would be the responsibility of the Textbook Board (para 4.04) with
assistance on procurement from EDPITAF. To enable these agencies to undertake
the additional workload and to provide them with expertise in the specialized
field of textbook production, the Government would add to their present
staff, specialists familiar with publishing, printing and book distribu-
tion (Chart 5). Annex 16 presents a detailed list of the division of
responsibilities among the above agencies.
5.09      Professional Services.  Design and supervision of civil works
would be carried out by consultants acceptable to the Bank, selected and
appointed by EDPITAF, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para 4.21). The Philippines has sufficient numbers of qualified con-
sultants to design and supervise the civil works included in the project.
Consultants would assist the architectural staff of EDPITAF in the design
of warehouses. During negotiations the Government agreed to a schedule
for appointing consultant architects.
5.10      Sites.  The location of most warehouses has been identified, and
most sites have been selected and are owned by the DEC. Sites for the two
curriculum development centers also have been selected. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that title to each site would be acquired and
transferred to the DEC according to an agreed schedule of implementation.



- 20 -
5.11      Procurement.  Contracts would be grouped to the maximum extent
practicable to form attractive bid packages. The following contracts would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines:
(a) civil works exceeding US$500,000;
(b) paper exceeding US$100,000; and
(c) equipment and furniture exceeding US$50,000.
Respective contracts below these amounts and printing contracts would be
awarded on the basis of competit:Lve bidding advertised locally, in accordance
with Government procurement practices acceptable to the Bank. Foreign firms
would be allowed to participate. Local bidders would be allowed a preferential
margin over competing foreign bidders of 15%, or the existing customs duty,
whichever is the lower, over the c.i.f. price for paper, equipment and
furniture. Bank review would be required prior to award of: civil works
contracts exceeding US$100,000; paper and printing contracts exceeding
US$50,000; and equipment and furrLiture contracts exceeding US$25,000. In
addition, miscellaneous items, in contracts not exceeding US$10,000 equivalent,
subject to an aggregate total not exceeding US$250,000 equivalent, could be
purchased on the basis of a minimEum of three price quotations.
5.12      Project Accounts.  During negotiations the Government agreed to
furnish the Bank with financial statements for the Textbook Board, audited
by independent auditors, not later than four months after the end of each
year, until one year after the Closing Date.
5.13      Disbursement.  The proposed loan of US$25.0 million would cover
48% of the estimated cost of US$51.6 million, and would finance 100% of the
foreign exchange component. The proposed loan would be disbursed over a
period of 5 years (Annex 17) in accordance with Schedule 1 of the Loan
Agreement to meet:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures of directly imported
equipment, furniture and paper;
(b)  100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
equipment, furniture and paper;
(c)  70% of the cost of imported and locally procured
equipment, furniture ancl paper;
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures or 60% of the expendi-
tures for technical assistance;
(e)  45% of the expenditure on printing and delivery;
(f)  30% of the expenditure on civil works, including
related professional fees;



- 21 -
(g) 15X of the expenditure on textbook development and
teacher training.
Disbursement requests would be supported by full documentation except for
expenditures on textbook development, delivery and teacher training which
would be disbursed against a statement of expenditure signed by the Project
Director. The documentation for these statements would be retained by the
project unit and be available for review by the Bank during project super-
vision missions. To the extent practicable withdrawal applications would
be aggregated in groups of US$50,000 prior to submission to the Bank for
reimbursement out of the proceeds of the proposed loan. Savings under one
category would be available for cancellation or, in consultation with the
Bank, to produce additional books. Expenditures on the mass media pre-in-
vestment study incurred after February 1, 1976 and before loan signing could
be financed retroactively from the proposed loan, up to a total of US$50,000
equivalent. The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 17. Dis-
bursement is expected to be completed by 1981.
5.14      Implementation Period.  The project will be implemented over a
four-year period. Physical facilities would be completed within two years
of the date of effectiveness (Chart 6). Preparation for implementation is
well advanced. Testing of the first phase of textbook titles is in progress,
initial paper procurement is scheduled for July 1976, and printing is
scheduled to begin in September 1976.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The Philippine education system is strong in terms of numbers of
students enrolled but weak in the quality of instruction provided. Insuffi-
cient and outdated textbooks has been a major contributing factor to low edu-
cational quality. The project would provide both the institutional develop-
ment and increased textbook supply necessary for sustained improvement of
educational quality.
6.02      Institutional Development.  A central objective of the project, and
the essential justification for IBRD financing, is to assist the Government
in establishing the institutional framework needed for continuous curricula
development and textbook production. Under the project, the Textbook Board
would be strengthened in authority and expertise to initiate, coordinate,
execute and supervise the full complement of textbook publishing functions.
The presently dispersed activities associated with textbook development (cur-
ricula development, manuscript preparation, testing, production, manufacture
and distribution) would be integrated under the single management of the Text-
book Board. The wider span of authority of the Board would enable it to under-
take a systematic program for developing new textbook titles. Testing, revi-
sion and teacher training, not done at present, would be introduced as an in-
tegral part of textbook development. The Textbook Production Service would
be transferred to the Textbook Board. It would be reorganized and augmented
in staff to facilitate continuous, large-scale printing and distribution of
books, in part through the physical infrastructure of warehouses to be con-
structed under the project.



- 22 -
6.03      It is expected that this emphasis on institutional development would
lead to the following benefits:
(a) a reduction from eight to three years in the average
time required to develop new textbooks;
(b)  an increase in the number of new textbook titles
introduced into the public school system from less
than twenty between 1971-74 to 75 from 1976-80;
(c)  a substantial increase in the annual capacity to
produce textbooks in the Philippines from about
one million p.a. (19711-75) to ten million (1980);
(d)  a 40% reduction in the average cost per textbook
from about US$1.30 to US$0.80 (including costs of
development, testing, paper, printing, and distri-
bution; 1975 prices); and
(e)  an improvement in curricula and the quality of textbook
content and presentation through regular testing and
revision.
6.04      Increased Textbook Suply.  The second major objective of the proj-
ect is to increase over the next four years the supply of textbooks in public
schools.  Under the project 27 million textbooks would be distributed to schools
by 1980.  This would reduce the pupil/book ratio in each subject from an aver-
age of about 10:1 to 2:1. As demonstrated in other developing countries, this
should lead to better learning achievements. Students who have the necessary
textbooks tend to achieve better test scores than students who do not.
6.05      Not only would the project help to raise educational performances,
the distribution of uniform textbooks throughout the country would help to
equalize educational standards between urban and rural areas. The proposed
project seeks to distribute books equitably to each school in proportion
to enrollment regardless of location. The project is expected to result in
greater advances in achievement for low income students than high income
students because low income studtEnts tend to have fewer books and their
more privileged counterparts compensate for an inadequate supply of text-
books by the presence of books at home.
6.06      In the Philippines, the provision of adequate textbooks, coupled
with teacher training, would be an important step toward improving curricula
and reforming classroom instructional practices. Improvements in the supply
of books and in teaching methods should reduce repeater and dropout rates,
now averaging 15% p.a. in elementary grades, by enabling teachers to give
more attention to each child and to rely less on routine lecturing to large
groups.
6.07      Risks.  In the short term, large scale publishing of textbooks by
the Government may have some deleterious effect on the private publishing



- 23 -
industry in the Philippines. This is a risk the Government is willing
to take to overcome the serious shortage of textbooks and improve educational
quality. In the long run publication by the Government and private publishers
would complement each other and would be necessary to meet the growing demand
for textbooks. The Government's program permits use of the services of
private publishers,and the private publishing and printing industry is to
be represented on the textbook advisory council and the Price Committee of
the Textbook Board.
6.08      The benefits expected from the project would depend mainly on three
factors: quality of the books, efficiency of the delivery system and teacher
training to ensure proper use of texts in classrooms. Assistance to the cur-
riculum development centers and the introduction of systematic manuscript
testing are intended to ensure the quality of the new texts. A new distri-
bution system, based on a network of warehouses, has been designed to ensure
that the books reach the schools. The proposed in-service teacher training
courses would enable teachers to use the books effectively in classrooms.
Problems inevitably would occur during the implementation of this complex
project. However, the strengthening of the textbook management process in-
cluded under the project should make it possible to identify problems early
and overcome them effectively.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACRED
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the reorganization
of the Textbook Board including amendments to its implementing rules and
composition of the textbook advisory council (para 4.06).
7.02      During negotiations the Government gave assurances on the follow-
ing points:
(a)  maintenance of a textbook advisory council and
staffing of the secretariat to the Textbook
Board (para 4.06);
(b)  testing and revision of prototype textbooks (para 4.08);
schedule for training teachers in the use of textbooks,
including appropriate language instruction (para 4.10);
and author consent and payment of royalties for textbooks
(para 4.14);
(c)  timetable for developing accounting procedures for textbook
manufacture and distribution, warehouse inventory control
and dispatch procedures, warehouse management and audit on
book deliveries (para 4.16);
(d)  procedures for changes in policy on textbook charges (para
4.17), project evaluation program (para 4.18), arrangements
for technical assistance (para 4.21) and commitment of re-
sources to tie second phase textbook program (para 5.07);
and



- 24 -
(e) appointment of consultant architects (para 5.09),
acquisition of sites (para 5.10), and annual finan-
cial audit of the Textbook Board (para 5.12).
7.03      A condition of effectiveness for the loan would be appointment
of key personnel to the Textbook Board (para 4.06).
7.04      It is recommended that the Bank provide retroactive financing
for an agreed portion of the technical assistance costs incurred after
February 1, 1976 for the mass media preinvestment study up to a maximum
of US$50,000 (para 4.20).
7.05      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Third Window Loan of US$25.0 million equivalent to the
Republic of the Philippines with a term of 25 years, including seven years
of grace period, and interest at 4-1/2% rer annui.
February 27, 1976



APPENDIX 1
Page 1
Summary of World Bank Group
Education Projects
First Education Project - Loan 393-PH
1.        The first World Bank Loan for Education was extended to the
Republic of the Philippines in October, 1964. The US$6 million provided
by the loan were used for a project in higher agricultural education. The
loan was for a period of 30 years bearing an interest rate of 5-1/2 percent
with a grace period of ten years.
2.        The main objective of the loan was to help finance the five
year development program of the University of the Philippines College of
Agriculture. The College of Agriculture, founded in 1909, was the second
oldest of 37 schools and colleges making up the University of the Philip-
pines. It had a well-established academic reputation, not only in the
Philippines, but also in neighboring countries and maintained close
links with agricultural extension services. It also benefits from the
research activities of the International Rice Research Institute which
have gained world wide recognition.
3.        The proceeds of the loan were used to finance half of the cost
of contracting and equipping 16 buildings and of renovating three others.
Staff development, improvement of curricula and research activities were
also financed by the loan. A project unit was established at Bank request
to supervise the implementation of the project and a special covenant call-
ing for an effective reorganization of the government's agricultural ser-
vices was included in the loan.
4.        The implementation of the project was delayed by a number of
factors the most important of which were the delayed (until mid-1965)
provision of Government counterpart funds, import restrictions preced-
ing the peso evaluation in February 1970 and delay by the Bank in agree-
ing to change its disbursement percentage after the devaluation. As a
result, the original closing date for the Bank loan was postponed by
2-1/2 years to December, 1972.
5.        The actual cost of the project finally implemented was 12 percent
higher than the estimated cost including contingencies despite a 14 percent
reduction in building space and 10 percent reduction in equipment items.
Inefficiencies in procurement procedures, high outlays on site facilities
and underestimates of price increases were the main factors responsible
for cost overruns.
6.        The objectives of the project have been largely fulfilled.  Qual-
ity and content of graduate programs have improved and the high quality of
UPCA agricultural education is being used as a model to upgrade strategically
located agricultural universities in other parts of the country. The quality



APPENDIX 1
Page 2
of bachelor degrees in agriculture remains, however, biased towards theory
since practical courses remain optional. Enrollment targets of 2,000 under-
graduate and 500 graduate students have been achieved.
Second Education Project - Credit 349-PH
7.        The second Bank group investment in the education sector took
the form of a US$12.7 million IDA credit extended in January, 1973 to help
finance a project for development of technical and vocational education and
for improvement in curriculum development and teacher training. Total proj-
ect costs were estimated at US$17.7 million, 28 percent of which are to be
financed by a government contribution of US$5 million.
8.        To ensure that local funds are available when needed, the Gov-
ernment agreed to establish a Special Fund (as a condition for the Credit
to become effective) and to replenish it at monthly intervals to a level
equivalent to the estimated disbursements required by the project.
9.        The credit is to finance a project consisting of the following
components: a new curriculum coord:Lnating unit, a new education develop-
ment center, two new and two existinig science teaching centers, equipment
for 13 existing agricultural high schools, expansion of two agricultural
colleges, six new pilot village schools, two new technical institutes,
expansion of one technical institute, a new and an existing radio station
attached to agricultural colleges, ten new regional manpower training cen-
ters and 62 man-years of specialist services and 50 man-years of overseas
fellowships.
10.       The project became effective on April 11, 1973.  Construction
has been about 12 months behind schetdule mainly due to delays in the final-
ization of design/drawing of buildings and recruitment of specialist serv-
ices. This delay is being reduced through effective management by the
project unit. Procurement of equipument is on schedule. Both the program
and schedule of technical assistancef have been revised to suit the current
needs of project institutions and to expedite implementation. The proj-
ect costs are estimated at about 32 percent above the appraisal estimates.
Disbursements (US$4.9 million as of 2/11/76) are ahead of the appraisal
estimate. Despite initial delays, the project is expected to be completed on
schedule.



APPENDIX 2
Page 1
Textbook Development. PrintinR and Distribution
The Textbook Board
1.        The Textbook Board determines which books are to be used in the
public school system.  It issues periodic calls for textbooks, specified
by subject and grade.  It reviews the textbooks and manuscripts which are
submitted by publishers and authors, and approves a small number (generally
two to five books) for use in public schools.  Only books specifically
approved by the Board may be used in public primary and secondary schools.
Private schools may use any book not specifically banned by the Board. After
approval the Board determines the number of volumes of each approved title
which the DEC will purchase for distribution to public primary and secondary
schools. Individual public schools and local school districts purchase
additional copies of the approved books directly from publishers as deter-
mined by their needs and the availability of funds. Some private schools
purchase books which they loan to pupils free of charge, which is the com-
mon practice in public schools. Other private schools sell books to pupils
or request pupils to purchase them at local book stores.
2.        Although by law only books approved by the Textbook Board may be
used in public schools, there are exceptions.  In a number of school dis-
tricts, workbooks and texts are written by groups of teachers at organized
workshops.  The district prints the books which are purchased by schools or
sold to pupils.
3.        The Textbook Board is composed of seven members, as follows:  a
chairman and four members appointed by the President, and the Directors of
Elementary and Secondary Education. Approximately two years ago the Board
was suspended. It was reconstituted by Presidential Decree No. 687 (of
April 22, 1975). New members were appointed in late 1975.
The Price Committee
4.        The prices at which books approved by the Textbook Board will be
sold to the DEC and other purchasers are controlled by the Price Committee.
The Committee is composed of three members appointed by the Secretary of
Education and Culture: one member of the Textbook Board who acts as chair-
man, one representative of the Philippine Educational Publishers' Associa-
tion, and one representative of the Bureau of Printing. The latter two
members are appointed by the President. The Price Committee specifies
purchase price in view of the number of volumes to be purchased.
Manuscript Preparation
5.        The majority of textbooks used in Philippine public elementary and
secondary schools are provided by private sector publishers. Approximately
15 publishing houses are members of the Philippine Educational Publishers'



APPENDIX 2
Page 2
Association and publish almost all textbooks used in the country. Approxi-
mately 15 other publishers provide textbooks occasionally. Publishers develop
books either in response to calls issued by the Textbook Board, or for sale
to private schools. Since approval of a book by the Board guarantees a
large volume of sales, there is exte-nsive competition for approval.
6.        Although most textbooks are provided by private sector publishers,
some textbooks are produced in the public sector or by the private school
systems. The most active public sector textbook group is the University
of the Philippines Science Education Center, which is being assisted under
Credit 349-PH. The Center writes e:Lementary and secondary school science
and mathematics textbooks, and deve:Lops associated instructional material
and equipment. Since 1965, the Center has developed approximately 18 text-
books and their accompanying teacher and laboratory guides, and another five
source books. Most of these books have been printed in limited editions
(5,000 to 20,000 volumes) over the past three years. The best of them
(11 titles) are being tested and revised during the 1975-76 school year.
They would be the books which would be printed and distributed in 1976-77
under the proposed project, and issued as revised editions in 1979-1980.
Additional titles which are being developed by the Center would also be
tested, revised and printed as part of the project.
7.        The Social Studies Center of the DEC is a second public sector
group active in developing textbooks. It has a primary school social
studies series in preparation. However, development is slow. The Social
Studies Center has limited experience in textbook development, and good
social studies textbooks are difficult to prepare. Since their content
must be integral to a nation's social, political and economic system, they
can borrow little from books developed in other countries. The Center is
being assisted under Credit 349-PH.
8.        The Language Studies Center of the Philippine Normal College, and
the Philippine College of Arts and Trades, are two other public sector
groups which have developed textbooks. The Language Center has been in-
volved to a limited degree in writing English and Pilipino language series
in the past years. The College of Arts and Trades has written experimental
teacher guides for vocational subjects.
9.        In addition to the public agencies, private schools and associations
such as the Notre Dame Educational Association develops books for use in their
own schools.
Printing
10.       Books for use in both public and private schools are printed by
private printers. The Philippines has a reasonably large and well-equipped
printing industry, concentrated in the greater Manila area. Many firms
are commercial printers and not necessarily equipped for large-scale book
production. Different equipment is demanded for book production than for
printing of stationery, catalogs, boKes and labels. Book production re-
quires extensive typesetting equipment with special typographic characters



APPENDIX 2
Page 3
for mathematics and science books. It requires high speed web (roll-fed)
presses with built in folding equipment, and high speed binding equipment.
In the Philippines, typesetting equipment and web presses are generally
available and adequate to handle the volume of books of the proposed
project. The weakness of the industry is bookbinding. Much of the
equipment available is old and low speed. There is some perfect bind-
ing machinery, but the industry needs more. A number of printers are
contemplating the necessary investment and have indicated that they will
make it should the proposed project be approved. Most printers now are
using low quality binding glues which shorten the life of books. It would
be necessary to specify that project books be bound with high quality glues.
At the present, production capacity of the printing industry is sufficient
to handle the volume of business which would be generated by the proposed
project.
Paper
11.       Prices of paper manufactured in the Philippines are generally
considerably higher than imported paper. In July 1975, typical local book
paper costing US$820/ton in Manila could be purchased for US$480/ton from
abroad. Local newsprint priced at US$570/ton in Manila cost US$350/ton
imported. Local paper manufacturers could produce sufficient quantities of
paper for the project. Present outputs are generally of low quality, but
higher quality paper could be produced on demand. However, since they can
apparently not compete in price, it is expected that paper for the proposed
project would be largely imported.
Distribution
12.       Textbook distribution is managed by the Textbook Production Service
of the DEC. The number of textbooks distributed by this unit has varied
greatly over time according to availability of funds for textbooks. About
60,000 books were distributed in FY 1975 and about one million in FY 1974.
The Textbook Production Service is responsible for handling textbooks from
printers, all located in the greater Manila area, to the school and city
divisions level. 1/ The responsibility for bringing the books from the
division level to the district level rests on the district supervisors and
from the district level to the schools on the teachers themselves. The
Textbook Production Service dispatches books from the printer in Manila
through a forwarding company selected on the basis of public bidding (in
1970). The contract linking the Service and the forwarding company is due
to expire in 1976. The Service does not have a clear system for recording
inventories and assessing losses and damages. Financial accounting is
rudimentary.
1/   The school administration has two intermediary steps between the DEC and
the schools, namely, the "division level" which includes 72 divisions
and 59 cities and the "district level" with 1,577 school districts.



APPENDIX 2
Page 4
13.       This system of textbook distribution is inadequate to handle the
distribution of large quantities of textbooks. Its major shortcomings can
be summarized as follows.
(i) Insufficient authority. No single agency has the authority
to handle the distribution all the way from the printers to
the schools. The responsibilities of the Textbook Production
Service stop at division warehouses in the case of overland
trucking and on the piers of ports of destination in the case
of overseas shipping.
(ii) Inadequate funding. No funds are provided to finance the
last leg of the trip, i.e. from the division warehouse to
the school. District supervisors and teachers responsible
for this leg of the trip do not have the funds to pay for
the required transport.
(iii) Shortage of warehouses. In most regions warehouses do not
exist. When they do not exist, they often provide inade-
quate space and protection.
(iv)  Inadequate control.  The present recording system is cumber-
some and inadequate. It precludes any checking on timing,
delivery and costs and cannot be used by the central govern-
ment as a tool for improving the distribution system at large.
The proposed project would provide for the transfer of the Textbook Produc-
tion Service to the Textbook Board. It would further provide for the strength-
ening of the staff engaged in textbook distribution, adequate funding for
book delivery, construction of warehouses, and consulting services to develop
improved shipping and handling procedures and an efficient control system.
Copyright Laws
14.       Presidential Decrees Nos. 285 (September 3, 1973) and No. 400
(March 1, 1974) regulate the production of books in the Philippines.  The
country is not a signatory of an international copyright convention. Decree
No. 400 asserts that any book which is sold in the Philippines for an exor-
bitant price may be reprinted without the consent of the author and publisher.
A committee comprised of the Secretary of Education and Culture, the Director-
General of the National Economic ancl Development Authority, the Chairman of
the Textbook Board and the Director of the National Library decides what
price will be considered exorbitant. In July 1975, only books selling for
less than P 20 (US$3) were protected from reprint.
Textbook Production Project
15.       Over the period 1961-1967 a joint program of the Philippine Govern-
ment and USAID was undertaken to provide approximately 24 million textbooks
to Philippine schools. Some 87 titles were produced in English, Filipino
and vernacular editions. Titles were written by local authors, illustrated
in color and bound in cloth-covered hard covers. Teacher editions were not



APPENDIX 2
Page 5
part of the project. The quality of the books was apparently good, although
their effectiveness was not tested in the classroom. Once the project ended,
no titles were revised or reprinted. It is apparent that under pressure to
achieve the immediate objective of writing, printing and distributing books,
the long range objective of institution building was not achieved.  American
specialists handled a number of management tasks, and a portion of the books
were printed by USAID in one of its own printing plants. Control of the
project was-apparently a problem throughout.
Bilingual Education Policy
16.       A new policy on the language to be used in schools as the medium
of instruction was introduced in June of 1974. Previously, the vernacular
served as the medium of instruction in grades one and two. English served
as the medium of instruction in all other grades. Under the new policy,
English and Pilipino will be the media of instruction. English will be
used in teaching mathematics and science. Pilipino will be used for all
other subjects. The vernacular will be used as an auxiliary language in
grades one and two. The policy is to be totally implemented by 1982. The
language of textbooks is to be consistent with the new language policy.
Textbooks now written in the vernacular are to be discarded (or translated),
as are science and mathematics books written in Pilipino, or any other books
written in English.
Quality and Quantity of Textbooks
17.       The system of production of textbooks has proved unsatisfactory
for four reasons. First, the system has not provided enough books. It is
estimated that in the public schools in any one subject there is only one
book for every 9.8 pupils in grades 1-4, one for every 11.5 pupils in grades
5-6, and one for every 8.5 pupils in secondary schools. In many urban
schools the ratio is better, but it is worse in most rural schools. The
ratio is also generally better in private schools, except for those in
outlying rural areas.
18.       Second, the system does not provide books on a regular basis, and
thus many books are in poor condition and outdated. About 80% of the books
presently in schools are at least five years old. Many were developed during
the Textbook Production Project of the 1960s (para 15). Photographs are
often more than ten years old. Texts generally omit mention of Filipino
progress in agriculture and industry, and of international developments in
health, sanitation and science made during the past decade. References to
national and international structures, figures and alignments do not reflect
present realities.
19.       Third, the system provides books without continuity between grades
and without reinforcement between books in related subject areas. The
Textbook Board has in the past selected textbooks from different series,
different authors and different publishers. Hence a textbook at one grade
level in a given subject does not proceed logically from the textbook at
the preceding grade level. Nor is there a rational relation between the



APPENDIX 2
Page 6
language proficiency assumed in one textbook and that assumed in another.
Finally, there is little attempt for related subjects such as health and
science or mathematics and industrial arts to complement one another.
20.       Fourth, the system does not provide for testing and revision of
books as part of the development process. Nor has it determined a set of
objective criteria for accepting or rejecting books which have been developed.
Thus, the quality of textbooks approved by the Textbook Board and used in the
schools is inconsistent and often unsatisfactory.



APPENDIX 3
Page 1
Educational Mass Media
1.        Broadcasting - The Philippines needs an efficient broadcasting
network to link the towns and villages scattered in the isolated valleys
and along the coasts of its 7,100 islands. The network requires local
stations which could broadcast programs with a local flavor in indigenous
languages.
2.        Commercial Broadcasting - The Philippines' broadcasting industry
has not developed such a network. It has followed the pattern of American
commercial broadcasting without comparable infrastructure (e.g. only 20%
of the population are now supplied with reliable electricity). Because the
markets for advertisement in the Philippines are limited to a few major cities,
broadcasting stations are overcrowded in the Manila area while quite a few
rural areas are not covered with radio waves; e.g. there are, in the Greater
Manila area, 47 radio and 5 TV stations, though this area should reduce radio
stations to about 25 for eliminating interference. Nationally there are
237 radio stations and 27 TV stations, of which 208 radio and 27 TV stations
are commercial stations. The Government owns no TV station. Some 80% of
households have radio sets, and there are more than one million TV sets in
the country (including more than 10,000 color receivers). Most entertainment
programs cater to mass audiences in order to sell advertising time. The
major commercial broadcasters have dominated the manpower and facilities
needed for broadcasting. Efforts to improve educational broadcasting have
been isolated and spasmodic.
3.        Educational Broadcasting - The Bureau of Broadcasts incorporating
the Philippine Broadcasting System under the Department of Public Informa-
tion operates 9 radio transmitters and produces TV programs to be fed on
channel 4 in Manila. Meanwhile, the National Media Production Center,
which reports directly to the President, produces audio visual materials
for information and education including radio and TV programs. The radio
programs are transmitted via the Center's Voice of Philippines station and
through 11 associated commercial stations.  The TV programs produced by
this Center are broadcast through Channel 4. Channel 4 is jointly operated
by the National Media Production Center, the Bureau of Broadcasts and a
comnercial broadcaster, KBS. KBS controls TV Channels 9 and 2, in addition
to 22 radio stations (five in the Manila area). While KBS has eight large
color TV studios and numbers of radio studios, none of the Governmental
stations have professional TV studios.
4.        The former Educational Media Division of DEC had been producing
18 school radio program series every week, which were transmitted via the
Bureau of Broadcastst radio stations. After the reorganization of the DEC,
it has not yet been decided which organization will take over the produc-
tion of school radio programs.



APPENDIX 3
Page 2
5.        In the field of educational broadcasts for rural development, the
Department of Local Governments and Cowmunity Development has been producing
radio programs emphasizing cooperative movement. Also, the University of the
Philippines at Los Banos has been trying to use its small radio station (250
w) for rural formal and non-formal education. This University together with
its affiliated station at the Central Mindanao University will expand these
broadcasts with the assistance of Credit 349-PH. Equipment has yet to be
installed.
6.        Broadcasting Frequency Allocation - The broadcasting frequency
allocation is one of the basic issues for expanding educational radio and
TV. The technical allocation of the broadcasting frequencies has been con-
trolled solely by the Telecommunications Control Bureau of the Department of
Public Works, Transportation and Communications. Applicants for frequencies
are now to be examined first by the newly established Broadcasting Media
Council, which is composed of representatives of commercial broadcasting
firms.
7.        Satellite Linkage - Recently the Government, particularly the
President, has been interested in using radio and TV for education and
rural development. The Government is considering leasing transponders from
a communication satellite for telecommunications and TV transmission in a
nationwide scale. Fifteen ground stations for the satellite linkage are to
be built by 1980. This development has been stimulating the Philippines'
educational broadcasters into unified efforts to use broadcasting facili-
ties more efficiently.
8.        Publications - In the Philippines about 60 papers and periodicals
are published, including four natioinal daily newspapers and about 40 local
weekly papers. The subscribers of the national papers amount to about
600,000. The circulation of general magazines totals about 500,000. It
is reported that fewer and fewer people read printed material.
9.        As in the case of broadcasting, the President lets the publishing
industry regulate itself. To this end, the Philippines' Council for Print
Media (PCPM) was established in earLy 1975. PCPM has the power to suspend
the activities of any undesirable puiblishers who override PCPM's codes.
PCPM monitors all of the national and local papers and periodicals in
circulation with the help of the Un:Lversity of the Philippines.



APPENDIX 4
Page 1
Technical Assistance
1.        The proposed project includes the cost of 284 man-months of fel-
lowships for training 56 professionals overseas in the fields of: curricu-
lum development; curriculum and textbook evaluation; book production, de-
sign, manufacture, warehousing and distribution; data processing; computer
programming; and statistics. The major portion of this training would take
the form of practical, on-the-job apprenticeship. The proposed project
also includes the cost of 326 man-months of expert services. It is assumed
that approximately one-third of these services would be provided by Filipino
consultants and that the remainder would be provided by experts recruited
internationally. The implementation period would be about four years.
2.        The distribution of fellowships would be as follows:
Long-term Training   Short-term Training
(degree and non-     (study terms, appren-
degree)               ticeships)               Total
man-months  fellows  man-months   fellows  man-months fellows
Textbook Production
and Distribution
Textbook Board
and CDCs           -           -        71             25        71       25
UPSEC                            -         9              3         9        3
SSC                  36          1         30            10        66       11
PNC or Textbook
Board             36           1         12             4        48        5
PCAT                 60          5         -              -        60        5
132          7       122             42       254       49
Management Information
System
Office of Planning
Services         9           1        21              6        30        7
Total          141           8       143             48       284       56
3.        The distribution of specialist services required to implement the
project would be:



APPENDIX 4
Page 2
man-months
Teztbook Production and Distribution
Textbook Board                                   157
UPSEC                                             8
PCAT                                              12
177
Management Information System
Office of Planning Services                       36
Mass Media Pre-investment Study
EDPITAF                                          113
Total                                        326
4.        Details of areas of study and expertise and approximate timing
for technical assistance are providecl on the following two tables.



PNILIPPINES - THIRD NDVCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANC
Schedule of Fellowshik Training by Calendar Year
1976                        1977                        197$                                                     19-580            No. of    maMan tlets    TotalM
ARA OP STDDY                                     Agency       J F h A N J J A S O  N D   J P M A M J J A S O N D   J F H A M  J    A SON  D   J F N A N J J A S O XD   J PNANJJASOND   Fellow"    per Fellew   Nen-onth&
Textbook Prduction  nd Distribution
1)  Design of lelSo    Science Eqipent               UPSEC                        - -                                                                                                                               1             3             3
2)  Science   qui_nt Production,
mackt  Operation                               USPEC                                                                                                                                                          2            3             6
3)  Social Studles Textbook Production               SSC                          - - - - -                                                                                                                         2            3              6
4)  Social Studles Progre  Ivaluation                SSC                          - - - - -    - - - - - - -                                                                                                        2             3             6
5)  Social Sei_cee                                   SSC                          - - - - -    - - - - - - -                                                                                                        2             3             6
6)  Social SoeeS                                     SSC                                                      - - - - -    - - - - - - -                                                                            2             3             6
7)  Social Sci...ce                                   SSC                                                                                  - - - - -    - - - - - - -                                               2             3             6
S)  Social Sciences                                  SSC                                                      x  x x  x    . . . x  PhD. x x       x x x   x x           x x x x  x x x x    x x x x  x x           1            36            36
9)  Lauage  Teaxtbook Production                     PnC                                                      - - - - -    - - - - - - -                                                                            2            3              6
10)  Languyge Progrm Evaluation                       Foe                                                       - - - - -    - - - - - - -                                                                           2            3              6
11)   ayebolincgtetic Studies                         PYC o   TS                                               x c   x x x   x . x.x  b. .hD ... . .    . x ** x . . . . . x          c a   x a . . . . .            1           36             36
12)  Practical Arte                                   PCAT                                                     x xx x x   x x M,A   x c   x x   x x x   x x x x x x x                                                1           24             24
13)  Industrial Iducation                             PCAT                              x xx   x x xx x                                                                                                              1            9             9
14)  Industrisl Sdueation                             fCAT                                                        x cx x       x x x                                                                                 1            9              9
15)  Tool Detan eand Production                       PCAT                           x x x x          x x x x x                                                                                                      I            9              9
16)  Tool Design and Production                       PCAT                                                       xx x x   x x xx x                                                                                   I            9              9
17)  Nath & Science, Langage. Social &                TB &
Practical Subject Editing                       CDC                        - - - - -    - - - - - - -  - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - -                         6            4            24
18)  Book Production, Desig., Layout 6
Artwork                                        TB                          - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - -                        6            3            18
19) Book Workshops, Teacher TrainIs                  TN         ------                                                                                                                        --3                                3              9
20)  Inentory Control                                 TB                           - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - -                                                                             2            2              4
21)  Coeptrolling                                     TB                                                                                                                                                             1            2              2
22)  Paper Procurement                                Tb                           - - - - -    - - - - - - -                                                                                                        1            2              2
23)  Printing, Binding                                TB                           - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - -                                                                             2            2             4
24) Distributing, Warehousing,
Scheduling, Dispatching                        TB                          - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - -                                                                             4             2             8
Sub-project Total              49                         234
MN eomnt Information Svston
1)  Data Gathering                                   OPS                          - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - -                                                                             3            3             9
2)  Data Processing                                  OPS                          - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - -                                                                             2            3             6
3)  Progr_ing                                        OPS                          - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - -                                                                             1            6             6
4)  Statistics                                       OPS                                                        c o c x   . . c x x                                                                                 1            9              9
Sub-project Total               7                          30
PROJECT TOTAL              56                         284
x    Indicates formal training leading to a degree if indicated and otherwise to no degree.                                        UPSEC -University of the Philippines  Sciente Education Center
SSC   -Sociel Studies Center of the Department of Educatioc cod C.1ture
--   Indicates a study tour, either in the for.  of ahort, intensiw  for-Ia ts.isinc, o-the-job                                    PNC   - Pbilippine Nor-a  Collae
apprenticeship, general orientation, attendance *t a conference, or a cenbination thereof.                                    PCAT  - Philippine College of Arts and Trades
Given the dependency of such a tour on wrk operations of variou  at.encies, exact  fsfing                                     TB    - Textboolc  oard
is wt indicated.  Rather, training is to be arranged during the period identified.                                           CDC   - Curriculum Development Center
OPS   - Office of Planning Services



TEWCICAL ASSISTASI
P1ILIPPlMllS - TI) UDVCATIOII PROJECT
Schedule of Inert Services By Yer
Area of Expertise                             Coordinating                      1976                        1977                        1978                         1979                        1980                                                 He-onh
Are ot Expertie                    ~~~~Amencv            J    1*           SO1      J F M A n J J A S O N D   J F l A M J   AS 6  O11D   J F n A M J J A S e N D   J F M A M J J A g O N D                                                han4lowtb.
TWSDC PRODuCnp0 AII  DISTIISUTIOU
1)  Publishing  an&g em,nt                     Tetbook board                              ax ss     x    xx uxox                   xaxoxaxcx                                                                                                               24
2)  Editorialf    _ngemt                                                                 x x x   x x   xxxxxx           x      xXxxxexxx                                                                                                                   24
3)  Science Editing                                                                    - - -                                                                                                                                                                6
4)  11athentics Editing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6
5)  Social Studies Editing                                                           - - -  -          -        -    -  -  -  -  -   -  -    -    - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - -                                            12
6)  Language Editing                                                                 - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - -                                                            12
7)  Practical Arts Editing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2 -  4 - - - - - - -    - - - - - - -  - - - - -    - - - - - - -  6
8)  Productioan11ngement                                                                                    x c  x  x x x x xxxo xxccnxx x                                                                                                                 24
9)  Art and Design                                     .,                                                                                                                                                                                                   12
10) Accounting                                           "x s                                                                                                                                                                                                3
11)  Inventory Control                                                                      . x x x                                                                                                                                                          3
12)        lanufacture                                                                       - -    - - - - - -                                                                                                                                              3
13)  Paper Procureent
14)  Transport and Distribution                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12
15) Warehouing                                                                           -           - - -  - - -  - - - -                                                                                                                                   6
16)  Science Equipment Development                     PSEC                                                                                                                                                                                                  4 - - - -    - - - - -     
17)  Science Equipment Design Evaluation                                                                        --                                                                                                                                           4
18)  Practical Arts Curriculo Deolopmnt                PCAT                                                                                                                                                                                                  6
19) Tool Deign & Production                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6
Sub-projsct total                        177
MAIUSXPEWI INFOgHTION SYSTEM
1)  M1nageoeot Inforuation Systees Training           oPs                        - - -                       - - -                       - - -                                                                                                              9(e)
2)  Computer Syste    Technology Training              OPS                       - - -                       - _ _                       - _ _
3)  Operstions Research Training                       OPS                       - - -                       - - -                       - - -                                                                                                              9
4)  Mnagement Science Training                         oPS                       - - -                       - - -                       - _ _                                                                   Sub-project total                         36
MASS MEDIA PRE-INVESTMENT STUDY
1)  Project Dire tor                              EDPITAP                 0                 0 K X2
2)  Deputy Director                                     0                   x xuocKocXooo                                                                                                                                                                  12
3)  Engtneer - neral                                                      x 000000 08
4)  Engineer- Trannlasion                                                  0         0 x x
5)  Engioer -Po.q                                       c                  0   x
6)  Econoniut                                                             . 0  0000                                                                                                                                                                          6
7)  Curriculu    n Dedign                                                 0 0 . 0 0 0                                                                                                                                                                        6
8)  utiliiation (in-school)                                               x 0   x x                                                                                                                                                                         4
9)  Utilicotion (out-of-school)                                           0 0 0 x                                                                                                                                                                           4
10)  ET7Production                                                         . x . xx .       
11)   adio Prodoction                                                      x. . x   . . X .X
12)  Non-hrcodcuut Media                                                    . 0 0 0 0 0                                                                                                                                                                      6
13) Yeda kintlsntrctionK                                                            K
14)  3valuocioc/Esearch                                                    K 0                                                                                                                                                                               g
15)  Syotosos Analysis                                                     000                                                                                                                                                                                3
16)  Lngagex x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4
132
(n)  Trainers to provide short  ruemer coorecs in ccotcro cnd dote pro-cuing.                                                                                                                                          PROJECT TOTAL 
sxx Indioctee full-tie consultant
---  Indicates part-time  onsultent or orreogoconto with a con. ulting group                                                                                                                                                                                                  c!



COMPiRkTIVE EDUCATT(114 INDICATORS                                                            AN'4fl I
JANUARY 9, 19?6
MZ.SZ2**Z2.82*2XM
....................................................................................................................................
: "Pt : I "P    :1  TOTAL4                 OF PUBLIC  11        .1        .1            :PRT. :Av.ppl.   .1                             :SEC    :
ICAV"41 O9V3T1EO9PU11LIC  I EDUCATION    SLITER- I PR[- 10141PLE-  ISTU.  j8C14.jfACHjPPE1GRESS-I SEC. ISIU-  I                                           I
I  *1   *TO  EQU.1   ERP. 3 RECIIRRENT    :ACY                   IfNROLLITION           :r)EWISv3ALAflV  INIJON RATt  3fNR(I.L1DENTS141GHE41
V14ANAtfTs  (INIM MIDEVOT94sEXP ALLOCATED%   RATE   *AjIn  IRATE FnRiPER   M LATInm  SPO06t PvI.jRATIfl fPFR   oENRLILLI
P#    isatclAil flip.    s TO            I        Tnt        I(% nF   I MET   IORI.SCH.37EAtHo TO GNP/ sTO SEC.   I NFI   ?TFACA- RATII:
Iwo (00) s wss)i OwLY)   i FOU. sPRI. SEC. 41.SADULTS)i (2)   ICYCLE(l):FR                                      CAPITA   t   (1)          I (1)   lfp        I (1)   t
I(1) It    M           t   (3)    I (4) I           CS)         I (b)    I M         I    (a)    I (9) I   (10)          I (11)        1(12)   t(13) M 4)   I
....................................................................................................................................
&DVAMCED
73    7.5c A. 41 CC         4.3      cl. 9      4?Q   2SO   200    99            Q8         93          26            1).       99           1        19        6.00
CAIdADA             7i   P1.11  4, 400          ?.T    I R. a       30    3ok    19        got       89          9A         24         2.0          00          42        17        9.00
CE44ANY F.REP,72   61.6   1,490                 4.?    14.2         ...   74** ?b          99        9t         99          3s        ...           99          91        22       1 7 . DOCY
JADA04              71 106.9c ?.IPOC            4.3    Z0.7         39    38    1 LP       99        QOD        99C         25C        2.0          99C         941)      VC    in . 0 0
METHERL44DS    72   13.3   P.444                4.5    19.IG    3?    45    19             99        Q5         95          29          3.0         97          73        20       t I . 0 0
4E4 ?EALAND    Is    2.9c A.560C                         ...        19    24    24         99        99         99          26        ...           99          67        iq       ?4.fto
404WAY              7?    3.9   1.140                    15.2       So    23    13         99        99         9A          20          1.9         99          76        la       It.00
SWEDEN              73    9.1c 4,6ROC           4.9    lb.0         36    14    13         99        90         99          17                      go          AS        11)      36.60
U.<.                70   55.5: ?,600C           5.4    13.8                                97        9FI                    2A                                  se         Pi
.1. It. A          TP 20R.4   %,Soo             h.0    15.4                                94        94         ;q          asu        ;:o                      9 5       11QU    ;;:o
EUROPE
;;i;;              71    0,qC 1,060C           2.?    11.3         S4Y   29Y   IQV    R?A           9sy         ...        32Y       ...           70A         SAY       oly    ll.flo
IRFLAND             7 2    3.0   1 'SNP                  I 3.9ri    43V   41Y   14V    96            97         99A         3s        ...           9SA         Is        to        7.00A
7
PC19TJGAL           72    9.7        730
spily               I I 10.3c i'lonc                     ;;:;A                                      99; :Y                                                       9                  4% : 60 .0 "A
AFRICA
71   14.ac    diec          4.0A    ...         43    A?    16         ?54       6?         56          43          6.0         I 7         I a)(     af,       I.so
BE   16             7 3    2.9C    iioc         S.5    3e.0         47    23    10         It        32xs        70 4       SO       25 . OPI      439          IR       SO"       n.44CY
OOTSOANA            ?4    0.1        100        S.0    20.6         39    ae    IS         2s        ?OX         75         Ss         5.0          24          i 311     IA        0.30Y
1104umni            72    3.6         bo                                                             21xf%y                 3fisy                                ?x6y   1           (1.1sqy
C&,4ER-1.1m         Tel    b.01.    ?(Inc                                                            7u                     siny                                 A        2 IC Yy    e. 9ficy
C.A.a.              70    I.bc    I boc         4.4%   20.0         Sb    19    ...    ...           64CY        2s         hscy    ...              18           lir y    Viy    n .,) I y
CHA')               70    3.4.        linc      4.4    la. s        77    23        0        7       POXBV    ...           bhsy    ...                          2xgy   in          M.014y
CrIldr.1c 1%)       71    1.3C    looc          O.. A    26.4       4sqy 3smy  isov   so?    13X                ...        b3        ...            ...        ;19       u;v       A.44cy
ET411pli            71   S.Ioc       on        3.1    ?A.o         42    29    14           1       17C         L12        50          3.0          61           e       in        n.,-o
?I    o.sc    ASOC          %.O    P0.6         ?s       a     it      ...    10OXAV    ?SC             46C        .5. 0         I t5A      ;-Pr      ?i c      1.4acy
71    9.1c    looc          4.7    ?q.4MR   380   159   230    ...               sb)fcv    b IV         30CY    ...              14         1 114     lbry    f) . 74sy
IY3RY C',IkST    7i    S. ti         A40        b.3    24.7         ?TRY  339Y 13V          9A       S?         SIA         46        ...                       10        24        1 . ?Aq y
4EYva              73   ta.11.    I ?#IC        6.6    217. o       63    it    It         40       10%y        ...         ri a        . 0        14          1 2-      211       1.ft.smy
LES3TX-1            71.1    M.9c      90C       4.7    ?,?.O        4sc   isc   24C    40            br,         ...        145                                            21       0 3
PS    11                        -19                    39                                  P.,                   :11,
L14EQ14             14    I.h    333C          2.7    1A.9                       ?2       ...                   ...                    I                        (I                      Okv
,4A64,11            Tti    40'.    lnoc         4.1    ?0.9         ...   ...   ...    ?S            CI&M       6n          se         7.0          40           qx       20           hcv
'4 A L'T            IQ    S.1c        70C       U.64   A.?. A       she   5 213  124    to           Is         2 a         Al O      14.0          I 7          4        11        ".IbAv
14A JR I I &Nj A    711    1.2c    lsoc         U.5    21.0         ...   ...   ...    to            tsy         ...        22          ...          ...         3        ?a
14AJRTTIUR          T2    n.5        3 0 0      3.7    1 1 . if)    71    to        Q      RD        F6         94          3 1         ...                     II        sn        ;:;?Cy
MnRicci             74   ts.ic    ?70C          S. nC   16.5        4 4    4 7      9      26?       Sax        2 t         57          ...         I I         I Sy      23        P0
413ERIA             71   h9.SC    1 3fic        3.PN   . . .        4 0 A OAA   ;!O 4      . . .     49xcv    . . .         34cy        ...          ...         4        2nr v    0lk7cy
IPWA-41A            1 4    3.7C       bONC    3.>c   2A.00                                 3        5?                                                                     3       0 '75cy
9f4EGAL             71    q.o:    M c           4.0N   22.SDR                              I 0       spix                                                       1 21     "IS        I7 1 C v
SItRZA LE14    73    0.7c    1 7fc              3. a    2 1.4       31    36    30         1 S?      3ax        4s          32         4,0t         ba          13W       21        f).53qy
Sn4AL I A           73     e . -     Ftac      . . .     1. 0      Sy    I 6     I 3       S        I I        *I          Is        1s.(           05          3        JA        I .0
qU)Ay               12   1 t, . i    1 20       4.5    I I . 2      43    29    28         t S       36          7s         45          ti . n       ?s         I I       pn         I .2SY
3MAZILAN')          72    (1.4c    pba          4.3A   i 0 . 7      37    2b    la         28        66          22         38          1.0          ...        lhnv    20           1 .0
Y4,426-41A          7'i 1i.n         I loc      5.1k   17.0         36    . . . 12        #j 3       a 4 x       . . .      0 9         ...           7          2        21C       0.3
Tilli I -t I A      7 3    S . 3c    tqmc       6. 1    P3.4        37    43    1 A        sli       7 2         A I        a I         6.0          3 1        1 a       2t        1.0
J66 N') A          Tn   i n . 4     1 50C      5, PN   I 7.bCR   400   2?Q   Psn    25A             4AXCY    . . .         3t.         . . .        14A         4)(CY   ?i         0.58RY
jP11ER  11LTA    ?a    S.b            64        Q.()    21.9        bs    10        6        5       In          . . .      as          A . 0        20           2      21;        (.(jrjy
litRE               73   M 4         1V         S.2c4 21.3c    sar   17C   24C    is                 63          36         Oa          6.0          a3           K       .14        0.96AY
1414STA             75    U.i:    IADC          S.6    ts.5         44    ?2    to         43        qsx         . . .      So          . . .        20         lsx       2t)        0.444Y
rE11TIAL jWfqjCh &40 T-4E fiO1'4sF&N
5.0    A0.7         S?    25    la         49        ObCy       hS          29           1.0        9 Fk        12cy    P%         12.11cy
5,34141CAN QFP.72    4.2             aRe        ?.S    ls.snii   4 z        24    2 ?      5 I       f          I 7        sa            3 .111)    b I         1 3       24        T.OG
EL SALVAM'30    is    3. 7:    4140C             X . ,   ;? 3 .14  6 1      VI    ? ?     SS&Y    7lXCY    . . .            59cy                                tbwcy   21cy    4.354Y
GUhTEMALA           7 3    s.b:    420C         1 . q    1b.0       I S     2 1    1 4     4 1       f,4         2 6         S S                                  P        2         a . ti 9 Y
.4 A t I T          7 P    4 . a     I 30       n.0       b, bm    6 1      1 1     a      209       22          257         as          5.0         5 0          1        P         I . 00?
H04')JRAS           ?2    2d         32 0       1. 0    2b.Sft    b4    1 3        1 4     S?        ft I x      I Ok        5 7          b.0        75          I 411     1 4       3.0D
IA'44 tcl           72    1 .9       sio        6.sv   I 9 . 7      13Y   22Y    7Y    4b           jofixy       . . .      52                                  loxy        9        4.19Y
14EAtEn             70   54.1c    isoc          2.4       9 .3      54    24       1 1     76         7 I        it         46            ;:11                   I 9       21.4      6. 52cy
IdICARAGUA          ?M    >. I c    fts"        P. -)    1 41.2     fs I    1 3    1 5     S?        t-5         ?I         37           P.n         93          1 7      214        7.0
TR14ID40 8, T. 71    I.oc    94flc              S. I    1A.9        S3    ?7    I?         RD        9-;x        it 7        35          41 . A      I           49        21,       2     A v
SOJT4 A-4FRICA
;;;;;:              7 4 9s.?c    i 3 0 C         a . I    12.OC    4 2      ?O      3 7     7 9       fk 0 x     . . .       21cy         . . .       . . .      ISR       ISCY    6. 00 a
CHILE               7 R I 0 .0       goo         4.6y   1 0 . bv    140Y tsqy 400Y   . . .            I I xDY    . . .       37BY                                 8xuy
doec       4.0                         1 Pi                     e.?                                   :D                    17
COL0407A            70   P3.4c                           to.9        3S            ?O       73                   20          3h           A                                I;,
EC iiie)(IR         72    b.5        3 60        3. 7    27.7c    QSGY 4420Y tuay   bg                72          . . .      is                                            14        4 TRY
;uyA,4A             ?O    0.1C    aooc          S.sN   14.7q    47    3s           t 4      413A      9?X        34          3 1          ;:n                    62 it     24        1 :"O
PA*ACUAY            ?a    2.4c    420C           1 . 6    17.9       S?    t 15    a 8      % I       tq a       26          29           1 19       65          lsx       I ()      0.00
PE4j                7 I I 4. I c    520C        Ai . S    24. 1 F)    Sri   2?     1 S      72        a A        3 4         3QDV         3. 0       7 a         A n       21DY   12. 00
VE4ENELA            ? 3 t I , I C   124mc       4.6    1 9 . 9       I 0 ri  280   350    ??A         0 1        . . .       33           2.4        ...         3 3       ...    1 2. 63C Y



COMPARATI'VE EDUCATION INDICATORS   (CONTO)                                      ANNEW I  PAGF 2
I       I        I          I         a                I         I        I          I      a            I           I        a      aII
I       a GN491 I I GNP8  It TOTALaX   OF PUBLIC a               I        I          spot. aAV.PRI.   a              I       aSFC   , 
I   ICAP11ITA: DEVDTEIDIPUGLXC : EDUCATION    :LITER- a PRI   ICMPE   SITU-  aSCN;TEACHIPRnGRESS.a  SFC.  ISTLI- 3                       aeR
a  A?t    TO Eou.a   0)8. IRECURRENT           ACV       ENROlLLICTlONt`   IENTSIALANY IN:11 ONATE  ENRO)aL DENTS'IHR
I       i5ARBETI  (PURLICiOEVOTEDaEX(P ALLOCATED,   RATE IRATIO IRATE PI3RaPER   aRELATIMN aPRnm PRI.gRATIO aPER  ILMlI9fLLI
a P)P. aPRICESI EXP.    I  TO    I           TDa       ali nF  I NET  JPRI.SCH.0TEACMa  TO GNP/ STIJ SFC.   I NET   aTEACM. RATIrIa
YRaCOOO) a VIJSS)l ONLY)   a  EDO. aPRI. SFC. 41.IADULTS)a  (2)  rCYCLE(M)ER    aCAPITA   I  (2)                       a (2      EaR    a (2    I
i (a) ta   (2) a  (3)    a  (8)  a           CS)       a (b)    a (7)  a  (a)    a (9) a  (10)    a (II)             1O12)   a(13) adoll
ASTA AND :lEIANIA
3A'dGLATESH  73;  l?.5C      b0C     1.2    20.2........    23                     sb        ...       oR         ...       ...       133     2A       .;
CHINA(TA14ANI 73  IS.IC    490C           1.3   a1a*0      29   41    22       92      98        90        40        1A.0       Al4       65s      26    1i.0
INDI1A           'a 563.5C    hioc       2.6VY ..*.               .        .  29       79X       ...       'A3A       ...       ...       280      2OAY    400AY
INDONEfSIA       73 123.0C    120C        1.8    11.0      63    23    a3      b2      61        90        32         5.0       01        12       iI.     ?.n0
IRON4            73  2Q.Bc   950C         3.3    12.6      sop  188   a2P    so        77        74*A      32         9.081    ADA        28       3?      4.S2CY
TRAO72   10.1              570       6.7    lb.3DR   ......                26      AlY       ...       22         ..         .         6:Cy  26-       6.28Cv
J0RDAN           7 3   2.01    2701       7.0     8.8      52    I5    ?I    59        911       76        38                             so0  0   0  2?   4.00
KOqEA            73  32.3C    310C        2.9    19.3      69    26     A      92      97        90        53         5.010     73        51       39      6.00
LESA4nO          72    2.9      700       3.8    19.0      39    90   II)    68        91.       65        19         ?.no    0,5         2611     25     21.00
WALAYSIA         72  J1.0       930       6.0    22.7n ..          ...    60           900       ...      342         ..        ...       33X      26      ..
)HAN             72    0.6      530       2.3     3.8      Qo     -   -        20      282       99        33         7.00      ...        0.901   9
PAB1STON         75  66.7c    1301        3*A     6.2      45   25   lI$       21      979       so        39         2.00      ...       370      I8      h*03o
P4HIPPINES    70  39.0c    220C          2.5    19.9      73    is    12o    87      104X       ...       34         Is        ...       860      ...    23.09
SINGAPOJRE       72    2.1    1200        3.tN   16.2      09    3t   Is       ISA    1070       72        33         ...       99        47       24      R.Psy
tHAILAND         73  AS~        2201M    3.ON4  1B*7       65     9    Is      82      870x      9IC       32         1.0011   9lE        21)      li         fie0
T7119EY          72  37.0       310       ...    13.000 .....               ..  .. IDXY    ...             390         ..       ..        220Y    270Y        AISRY
YEM4EN           73    6.3    I100        0.5     a 1.0    459  23P  2'.P    to        351       38P       31.        50        75         20      10      A t.0Soy
YE4EN p.0*0*   72    3.5        300      2?.3A   12.6      79    12            10       70X      31        29        10.00      99        120      20      0.08AY
SUMMARY F3R DEVELJPING CO)U4TRIESI
NM.4*   19 O  COUNTRIESa                  S7     67       &1    59    S9     62       73        91        72          38       91        73      tR        67
..F     .....(0,5-   (3.8-   (25- (0.   (0-    (5-                             (30-      (17-      (39-       (a.8-    (7-       (.9-    (9-       (.01-
.9.0 )  32.3)  96 ) 52)  400    98)           1800)    99 )       6  I       25.0)    90)        7S.0)  90)       P1.0)
)UAOTILESIUPPEO I                      8.7    23.0      57    36    20      6e       91        76        a5          7        70       2..      2'       0i.79
HEDTANI                    0.0    18.2      so   27    is       50       73       56        38           9       63        (1       251      2.600
LOnER a                    3.I    10.0      82    17   '-1    20        08        ?5        33           3       )5          A      10       (.~.3
SYVTMSOLPa... DAtUm UNAVAILARLE                  0z1970 I09 EFORE              MXCIJRRFN?  P97C1S                         SfO4Ic YSa 
N AGNITUDE NIL 0Q N!GI-IgIRLE R31971                              N,GDP
?  QUESTIONABLE                       Cu1972                       PaINCLIIDING FDREIGN Aln                                  ANDUMA    £1  ? .i)R3.  RAN~
*  TNCLUDES 2ART-T14E STUDENTS 0:31973                             DECENTRAL GOVT. OntL                                             ATLAS
A*COBRINED .9170 PRIMARY            E.1978                        RxMINISTPY OF EDllCAT?ONJ tMnE) INLY                   3  i 714 IA    RD MTSSI1INA
SuMOE ANn) STATF G. VT. OINLY                                   ANqlno UNESCn
TMEXCLIIDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                      STATISTICal
IIsPUOILTC ONLY                                                 TO AAikRIIK
VzINCLLIPTNG PRIVATE E9PENOITIJkE
l(3INELIJDING nvERAGEO STUDENTS
YSUNESCO SnOuRCES
COMP&RATTVF EDUCATtU8 DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATTON OF VAIRIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEmS AND) ANALYSIS OFP AELAITYF 51AGFS OF ED)UCATIO)NAL
DEVELOPNENT REFTWEEN WA8101u8 COUJNTRIES. I40WEVER,00N THEF BASIS OF! THE PRESENT DATA.CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED .7TH
GREAT CAUTIOTN. DATA PRESENTEn IN THE A90VE TABE HAVF BEEN CrILLECTED LARGELY By THF MAMAK MISSIOnS F11n8 ErIVERNM4ENT SUIIRCER1 THE
REMAINDER ABE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFnRTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STAN0ARnIZE nFFINITIJUNS AN) WITH1IN LIOITS. TO CHECK 14f,
AC:UJRACY JF THE DATA, NEVERIMELESS.SiJCw TIATA ARE STILL IMPERF'ECT IN SEVERAL RESPFCTS AND THE HANK IS WORKINGJr ILI IMPnvOF THFO
PR3GqRESSVFLY ON THE JCCASIIN IF ITS OPERATIONAL W9RK. IN Toot USE IF THESE DATA, THE FOLLIIWING lJLIALIFOCATII'INS SHriULf, RF IOJRNE I'
BI1ND.i
flI)E9UC4Tt0AN AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATIONd ANiD TI'AINING, FORMAL AND ~4ON-F!1PALa
M2)PRTNARY EDUCATION REFERS Ti) EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND SIECONDARY- EOIUEATInN OFFERS TO) ALL EDUCATION AT TM6 sECnI1)040
LEVEL REGAROLESS IP TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL.) a
(3)ILITERAC" RATE3l(CnL.b) ARE 3FTEN OSTAINED FRO" COUNATRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCi)UNTWIES THFY ARE ONLY APPI100IMAIIrNS AND IT IS
DDURTFUI. THAT ANY UNIFORMO DEFTNITTON OF OLITERATE' MAS SEENd FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY,
(41)1URLIC EXPENDITULRE IN EDUCATINON(COLS.1.6 AND 5) REFrER II ALL CAPITAL ANn RECURRENT FXPFNIIITIIRES IIOvf)TE" In EnIICAITIN my
PI''iLIC AND QUASI ;PUFLIC.,AGENCIE!s,
(W)EAROLL"ENT RAhI  S(C ILS 7 . 1 2 A ND 18a) R E FER T t S CHO YII.E AR AN4  1 BE AN THE  PE RC FNT7A rE   F F L GI .H L E C H IL VPtN F OR L L F9     T ..'.TTE
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOntL, PURLtC AND PRIVATE By LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUNJFCT TO) A w110F MAPGIN OF1 E4601R TN THL IFYFLOPINO-
COJN1RIE5 NWING 17 VARIATION TN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION ANI) AMPOILLMENTS). EKN[JL.,'FNT FIGLIAES
FQFDIIENTLY ARE B1GHFO THAN THF NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. MVFRAGFD STunENri wHnsE INCLUISION IA4 liNtCATFO By
fl;JTwOTFS ALSO CAN INFLATF T4E RATIOS.



ANNEX 2
PHILIPPINES
TOTAL EPENDITURE ON EDUCATION BY SOURCE 1973-1975
Recurrent and Capital
Million current pesos
1973                  1974                      1975
Actual            Appropriation              Appropriation
1. National Government-/
- Elementary Education                                      1182                  1225                       1300
- Secondary Education                                         94                   127                        163
- Higher Education
Department of Education and Culture                    16                    15                        31
State Universities and Colleges                      158                   199                        284
- Other Educational Institutions                                5                    9                         11
- Education Administration                       2/
Office of the Secretary Including SESF                 11                   110                       128
Regional Offices                                      -                       8                         9
- Infrastructure Program                                      82                    49                         88
Sub Total                                                   1548                  1742                       2014
2. Local Governments
- Provinces                                                   28                     50                        46
- Cities                                                      64                   127                        134
- Xunicipalities                                              50                    44
Sub Total                                                    142                   221                       4180
3'
3. Special Education Fund (SEF)
- Provincial School Boards                                     9                     10                        14
- City School Boards                                           41                    49                        47
Of Which Manila                                       (15)                  (18)                      (12)
- Municipal School Boards                                      31                    43                        44
Sub Total                                                     81                   102                        105
4.  Total Public Expenditures on Education (1+2+3)                 1771                  2065                      2299
4/
5.  Private Expenditures on Education                               482                   607                       696
6.  Total Expenditures on Education (4+5)                          2253                  2672                      2995
5/
7.  Expenditures on Education as a Proportion of GNP               3.6                   3.2                       2.8
Notes:
1/ Ministry of Education plus expenditures on colleges and universities.
2/ Special Education Stabilization Fund, that is, the National Government share of the Special
Education Fund (SEF).
3/ The Special Education Fund is financed by an additional 1% tax on real property, the basix tax of which
is already 1%. Tax collection rests on local governments (cities and municipalities). The proceeds of
the tax are then shared between the various School Boards according to the following formula:
- at the cities level, 60% go to the City School Board and 40% to the SESF (National Government)
- at the municipal level, 50% go to the Municipal School Boards, 30% to the SESF and 20% are transferred
to the provincial School Boards.
4/ Estimates based on the number of students enrolled in private schools multiplied by average tuition fees.
/fAssumes a 17% growth rate over the preceding year (127. inflation and 57. real growth).
December, 1975



PHILIPPINKS
Public Expenditure for Education By Government Level 1967-1975
(Obligations)
Millions of current pesos                                                                                                    Fiscal Years
1967       1968       1969       1970        1971       1972        1973       1974       1975*
1. National Government Expenditures
- Total                                        2531       2943       3611        4054       4429       5588       8189        13541       17296
Recurrent                                2210        2474       3056       3328        3758       4837      5901          7915      11620
Capital                                   321         469        555        726         671        571      2288          5626       5676
- Education                                     828        941       1080        1162       1271        1440      1638         2019        2620
Recurrent                                  770        819        939       1066        1205       1360      1451          1855       2272
Capital:  DEC                               31         43         50         66          39         44       105           115        260
Infrastructure Program          27          79         91         30         27          36        82            49         88
- Education as % of Total                      32.7       32.0       29.9        28.7       28.7        25.8      20.0          14.9       15.1
2.  Local Government Expenditures
- Total                                         698         756        817        933       1081        1263      1361          1665       1813
Recurrent                                 570         652        701        808         937       1098      1216          1471       1532
Capital                                    128        104        116        125         144        165        145          194         281
- Education**                                    -          -           -         118        125         151       142         n.a.        n.a.
Recurrent                                   -          -          -          59          60         70         80         n.a.       n.a.
Capital                                     -          -          -          59          65         81        62          n.a.       n.a.
- Education as % of rotal                                                        12.6       11.6        12.0      10.4         n.a.        n.a.
Source: Budget Commission
Report of the Commission on Audit on Local Governments (FY 72 and 73)
Department of Finance Estimates (FY 74 and 75)
*  Department of Finance estimates
** Mission estimates based on official statistics of local expenditures on education and social welfare.
December, 1975



PHILIPPINES
EDUCATION EXPENDITURE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION FUND (SEF) 1973-75
(All levels of Government)
Million Pesos
City School Boards
SESF            Provincial                              Of   ich            Municipal
National            School              Total           Manila School           School
Government            Boards                                 Boards              Boards             Total
FY73  FY74  FY75  FY73  FY74  FY75  FY73  FY74  FY75  FY73  FY74  FY75  FY73  FY74  FY75  FY73  FY74  FY75
1. Operation of Extension Classes (Grade 1)         1.4   6.3    -    0.1    -    0.1   4.3   5.3   2.7    -    1.1   0.6   7.4   9.4   4.5  13.2  22.1   7.9
2. Construction and Repair of Elementary
School Buildings                                -    1.8   1.0   1.1   1.5   5.4  10.6  18.4  22.7   5.5  10.7   9.6   5.0   8.8  12.3  22.2  41.2  51.0
3. Textbooks, Teachers' Guides, Forms
and Pamphlets                                   -     -    2.0   0.6   1.0   1.7   2.1   3.6   5.6   0.8   0.9   0.9   3.3   8.2  11.3   6.8  13.7  21.5
4. Salary Adjustment                                 -      -     -    4.4   5.4   0.8  18.4  16.7   8.6   5.2   3.9    -   12.6  11.1   6.9  40.6  37.1  16.3
5. Teaching Materials, Aids and Devices              -    2.0    -    0.2   0.3   0.6   0.8   1.0   2.0   0.5    -    0.4   0.4   1.6   2.3   1.9   4.9   5.3
6. Aid to Barrio High Schools and
Adult Classes                                  0.3   1.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.4   0.2   0.5   0.7   0.1   0.1    -    0.4   0.7   0.9   1.2   2.6   2.2
7. Educational Research                              -      -     -      -     -    0.1    -    0.1   0.1    -         -     -      -     -    0.1    -    0.1   0.3
8. State Scholarship Council                        2.0    -      -    0.3   0.3   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.4    -          -     -      -     -      -    2.6   0.6   0.8
9. Physical Education                                -      -    7.1   0.6   0.1   2.3   0.6   0.9   1.8   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.4   1.2   2.8   1.8   2.3  14.1
10. Vocational Equipment                              -      -     -    0.8   0.8   1.5   1.4   1.7   2.1   1.0   0.8   0.7   0.5   1.3   2.1   3.7   4.6   6.4
11. Other Supplies, Materials and Equipment           -      -     -    0.4   0.1   0.4   2.0   0.9   0.3   1.8    -          -    0.6   0.8   0.3   4.8   1.8   1.0
12. Administration                                   0.3   0.3   0.3    -       -      -     -      -      -     -      -     -      -     -      -    0.3   0.3   0.3
Total                                       4.0  11.6  10.6   8.7   9.6  13.7  40.7  49.4  47.0  15.1  17.6  12.3  30.6  43.1  43.5  99.1 131.3 127.1
Source: Department of Education and Culture, Special Education Fund
Notes: Financing of SEF: See Annex 2
February, 1976



PHILIPPINES                                            ANNEX 5
ENROLLMENT IN ELEMENTARY AND GENERAL SECONDARY SCHOOLS 1967-1980
(000's)
Elementary                    Total              Secondary            Total
Year             1       2      3       4       5      6      Elem.       1      2       3      4      Sec.
Actual
1967-68 Public    1,404  1,170  1,068    978    831    669   6,120           204    144    110       95     553
Private       62     51      47     44      40      43      287     256    209    183    165        813
Total      1,466  1,221  1,115  1,022    871    712   6,407         460    353    293    260   1,366
1968-69 Public    1,473  1,185  1,112    991    874    734   6,369           232    166    125       98     621
Private       69     59      54     52      47      50     331      276    229    200    180        885
Total      1,542  1,244  1,166  1,043    921    784   6,700         508    395    325    278   1,506
1969-70 Public    1,503  1,228  1,119  1,020    881    770   6,521           244    181    139    112       676
Private       72     60      54      50     47      51      334     284    239    209    184        916
Total      1,575  1,288  1,173  1,070    928    821   6,855         528    420    348    296   1,592
1970-71 Public    1,535  1,244  1,141  1,025    912    771   6,628           280    202    157    124        763
Private       73     63      55      51     48      51      341     295    249    220    192        956
Total      1,608  1,307  1,196  1,076    960    822   6,969         575    451    377    316   1,719
1971-72 Public    1,459  1,222  1,115  1,000    868    758   6,422           261    201    154    119        735
Private       76     64      56      49     47      50      342     301    259    228    200        988
Total      1,535  1,286  1,171  1,049    915    808   6,764         562    460    382    319   1,723
Projected
1972-73 Public    1,585  1,288  1,179  1,060    946    811   6,869           256    201    167    140        764
Private       83     68      62      56     50      43      362     383    301    251    211   1,146
Total      1,668  1,356  1,241  1,116    996    854   7,231         639    502    418    351   1,910
1973-74 Public    1,614  1,312  1,200  1,080    964    826   6,996           272    213    178    149        812
Private       85     69      63      57     51      43      368     409    320    266    223   1,218
Total      1,699  1,381  1,263  1,137  1,015    869   7,364         681    533    444    372   2,030
1974-75 Public    1,644  1,336  1,223  1,100    981    841   7,125           290    227    188    158        863
Private       87     70      64      58     52      44      375     435    340    282    237   1,294
Total      1,731  1,406  1,287  1,158  1,033    885   7,500         725    567    470    395   2,157
1975-76 Public    1,675  1,361  1,245  1,120  1,000    857   7,258           309    241    200    167        917
Private       88     72      65      59     53      45      382     464    361    299    251   1,375
Total      1,763  1,433  1,310  1,179  1,053    902   7,640         773    602    499    418   2,292
1976-77 Public    1,705  1,386  1,269  1,144  1,018    873   7,395           329    256    212    177        974
Private       90     73      67      60     53      46      389     494    384    318    266   1,462
Total      1,795  1,459  1,336  1,204  1,D71    919   7,784         823    640    530    443   2,436
1977-78 Public    1,737  1,412  1,292  1,162  1,337    889   7,529           351    272    225    188   1,036
Private       91     74      68      61     55      47      396     527    408    337    281   1,553
Total      1,828  1,486  1,360  1,223  1,092    936   7,925          878    680    562    469   2,589
1978-79 Public    1,770  1,438  1,316  1,184  1,056    905   7,669           374    290    239    198   1,101
Private       93     76      69      62     56      48      404     562    434    358    298   1,652
Total      1,863  1,514  1,385  1,246  1,:112    953   8,073         936    724    597    496   2,753
1979-80 Public    1,802  1,465  1,341  1,205  1,076    922   7,811           400    308    253    210   1,171
Private       95     77      71      63     57      48      411      599    462    380    316   1,757
Total      1,897  1,542  1,412  1,268  1,133    970   8,222          999    770    633    526   2,928
1980-81 Public    1,836  1,492  1,365  1,228  1,096    939   7,956           415    327    275    230   1,247
* Private      97      78      72     65      58      49      419     623    491    412    344   1,870
Total      1,933  1,570  1,437  1,293  1,154    988   8,375   1,038    818    687    574   3,117
Source: Division of Educational Planning, Departmtent of Education and Culture
December, 1975



PHILIPPINES
PUBLIC ELMNTARY TEACHERS, 1972-83
Per Subject
School                Primary Teachers                     Intermediate Teachers         Area
Year       I       II      III       IV       TOTAL       V       VI       TOTAL      V      VI
1972-73   41,320   33,845   31,035   27,992   134,192   40,770   34,808    75,578   4,530   3,868
1973-74   42,538   34,883   32,025   28,974   138,420   42,440   36,360    78,800   4,716   4,040
1974-75   43,757   35,920   33,015   29,957   142,649   44,112   37,910    82,022   4,901   4,212
1975-76   44,975   36,958   314,005   30,940   146,878   45,783   39,460    85,243   5,087   4,384
1976-77   46,193   37,996   34,995   31,922   151,106   47,453   41,012    88,465   5,272   4,557
1977-78   47,412   39,034   35,985   32,905   155,336   49,125   42,562    91,687   5,458   4,729
1978-79   48,630   40,072   36,975   33,888   159,565   50,795   44,112    94,907   5,644   4,901
1979-80   49,848   41,109   37,965   34,870   163,792   52,465   45,663    98,128   5,829   5,074
1980-81   51,066   42,147   38,955   35,852   168,020   54,137   47,213   101,350   6,015   5,246
1981-82   52,285   43,185   38,945   36,835   171,250   55,808   48,763   104,571   6,201   5,418
1982-83   53,503   44,222   40,935   37,818   176,478   57,480   50,315   107,795   6,387   5,590
1983-84   54,721   45,260   41,925   38,801   180,707   59,150   51,865   111,015   6,763   5,763
Note:  The projected number of teachers is computed from projected enrollments.  In the primary
grades, the pupil/teacher ratio is assumed to be 40 to one.  In the intermediate grades,
class size is assumed to be 40 pupils, and there are assumed to be five teachers for
each three classes, resulting in a pupil/teacher ratio assumption of 24 to one.
Source: EDPITAF
December, 1975
0>



PHILIPPINES
ENROLLMENT IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS AND UNIVERSITIES 1967-1980
(000 's)
University Level
School     Secondary Level   University (excluding          University             Higher              Total
Year        (Vocational)       Teacher Training)       (Teacher Training)        Technical          University
Public          Public   Private         PUblic   Private    Public   Private   Pablic   Private
Actual
1967-68           83               23       274            22       191         13         66       58         531
1968-69           87              21        331            30       166          8         68       59         565
1969-70           88              20        345            23       147         14         68       57         560
1970-71           9k               25       390            24       108         14         70       63         568
1971-72         101                29       427            16        84         23         83       68         594
Projected
197J2-73          108               31        507           18         98         25         87       74         692
1973-74         118               34        550            20       106         27         94       81         750
1974-75          130               35       581            21       113         29        100       85         794
1975-76         143               38        616            22       119         30        105       90         840
1976-77         157                la       650            23       126         32        112       96         888
1977-78         173               43        689            24       133         34        118      101         940
1978-79         190                45       730            26       141         36        125      107         996
1979-80         210               49        772            27       150         38        133      114       1,055
1980-81                            51       819            29       159         40        140      120       1,118
Source: Division of Educational Planning, Department of Education and Culture
December, 1975



ANNEX 8
PHILIPPINES - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Proposed Book Production Cycle
YEAR ONE                 YEAR TWO                 YEAR THREE                 YEAR FOUR
J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D1J F M A M J J A S O N D
Writing & Testing
Plan & Organize                          XX X i
Write & Test                                 XX X XX X
Typeset & Proofread                                   X x x
Print Prototype                                           K X
Brief  Evaluators                                           x X x
Tryout Books & evaluation                                       X X XXX X X X X    X X x
Revise and prepare for publication                                             X XX X X xxi----- -
Teacher Training                                                                         /
Develop Workshop Curriculum             !'-.XXX 
Train Teacher Training Teachers         j                                                              X
Train Development High School Teachers                                                              '  x X
Teacher Workshops                                                                                          x x x
Paper Procurement
Draft Bid Documents                      X x x i                  i                        i
Bid Documents to IBRD                          x x x              i
Bidding                                              x  X X
Analyze Bids                                                   XX
Analysis of Bids to IBRD                ,X X X
Draft Contract Awards                                               X XX
Shipment of Paper                                                           X  X  X  X X  X   X X---_
Printing & Distribution                  |
Draft Prequalification Documents                              X X|X
Prequalification Process                                          I X  XX
Prequalification Appointments to IBRD                      ,               X X X
Draft Bid Documents                           I                              XXX   , j
Bid Documents to IBRD                                                              XOX   ' 
Bidding                                                          ,X
Analyze Bids                                                                       ,      xx
Bid Analysiz to IBRD                                                                    '   XX
Draft Contract Awards                   -                                        ,             X
Print                                                                                             x _  X
Fold & Bind                                                                                         XX X 
Distribute                              'XI XX  X!                                                                 . X x;
Note: Arrows indicate steps which must precede one another.
January 1976



ANNEX 9
P H I L I P P I N E S
Third Education Project
Phasing of Book Production by Suboect and Grade
1975 -76                      1976 - 77                   1977 - 78                     1978- 79                     1979 - 80
Science
Primary Grade I                 Tryout & Rovioion          Printing & Distrbution                                             Revision            Printing & Distribotion
2                Tryout & Revision          Printing & Distribution                                            Revision            Printing & Distribution
3                Tryout & Revision          Printing & Distribution                                            Revision            Printing & Diutribution
4                Tryout & Revision           Printing & Distribution                                            Reviuion           Printing & Distribution
5                Writing & Testing             Tryout & Revis lon        Printing & Distribution
6                                              Writing & Testing             Tryout & Revision        Printing & Distribution
Secondary Grade I               Tryout & Revision          Printing & Distr.bution                                            Revision            Printing & Distribution
II             Tryout & Revision          Printing & Distrx.bution                                           Revision            Printing & Distribution
III            Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revi.uon                                       Printing & Diutribution
IV             Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revisuon                                       Printing & Distribution
Hathbmatics
Primary Orade I                 Tryout & Revision          Printing & Distrrbution                                            Revision            Printing & Distribution
2                Tryout & Revision          Printing & Distribution                                             Revision            Printing & Dintribution
3                Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revision          Printing & Distribution
4                Writing & Testing             Tryout & Revision         Printing & Distribution
3                                              Writing & Testing             Tryout & Revision        Printing & DistribUtion
6                                              Writing & Testing             Tryout & Revision        Printing & Distribution
Secondary Grade I               Trying & Revision          Printing & Distribution                                            Revision            Printing & Distribution
II             Tryout & Revision          Printing & Distribution                                            Revision            Printing & Distribution
III            Tryout & Revision          Printing & Distribution                                            Revision            Pristing & Distribution
IV             Writing & Teoting            Tryout & Revision          Printing & Distribution
Social Studies
Primary Grade I                 Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revision          Printing & Distribution
2                Writing & Testing             Tryout & Revision         Printing & Distribution
3                                             Writing & Testirg              Tryout & Revision        Printing & Distribution
4                                                                            Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revision         Printing & Distribution
5                                                                                                         Writing & Testing             Tryout & Revision
6                                                                                                                                       Writing & Testing
Secondary Grade I                                                                           Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revision        Printing & Distribution
II                                                                         Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revision        Printing & Distribution
III                                                                                                     Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revision
IV                                                                                                                                   Writing & Testing
English
Frimary Grade 1 Priner          Writing & Teoting            Tryout & Revisi.o          Printing & Distribution
I Reader         Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revisi.n          Printing & Distribution
2 Teetboek                                    Writing & Testing              Tryout & Revision        Printing & Distribution
3Reader                                                                      Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revision        Printing & Distribution
3 GraonTar                                                                   Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revision        Printing & Diutribution
4 Reader                                                                                                  Writing & Testing             Tryout & Revision
4 Gramear                                                                                                 Writing & Testing             Tryout & Revision
5 Reader                                                                                                  Writing & Testing             Tryout & Revision
5 Graossr                                                                                                 Writing & Testing             Tryout & Revision
6 Reader                                                                                                                                Writing & Testing
6 Grasmar                                                                                                                               Writing & Testing
Secondary Grade I               Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revisi-n          Printing & Distribution
II                                          Writing & Testing              Tryout & Revision        Printing & Distribution
III                                                                        Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revision        Printing & Distribution
IV                                                                                                      Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revinion
Pilipino
Prinary Grade 1 Pri-er                                       Writing & Testirg              Tryout & Revision        Printing & Distribution
1 Reader                                      Writing & Testirg              Tryout & Revision        Printing & Distribution
2 Tetbook                                                                    Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revision         Printing & Distribution
3 Reader                                                                                                  Writing & Testing             Tryout & Revision
3 Grammar                                                                                                 Writing & Testing             Tryout & Revision
4 Reader                                                                                                  Writing & Testing             Tryout & Revision
4 Gramnar                                                                                                  Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revision
5 Reader                                                                                                                                Writing & Testing
5 Gra=mar                                                                                                                               Writing & Testing
6 Reader                                                                                                                                Writing & Testing
6 Grasmar                                                                                                                               Writing & Testing
Secondary Grade I                                            Writing & Testing              Tryout & Revision        Printing & Distribution
II                                                                         Writing & Testing            Tryout & Revision        Printing & Distribution
III                                                                                                     Writing & Testing             Tryout & Revision
TV                                                                                                      Writing & Testing             Tryout & Revision



PHILIPPINES
PROJECTED TEXTBOOK SUPMhY BY YEAR AND GRASj, 1976-83
(Public Schools Only)
(thousands of textbooks)
Phase I                                      Phase II
1976-77  1977-78  1978-79  1979-60   Total  196-81  1981-82  1982-83  1983-84   Total   Total
Primary School
Grade 1       1,814    2,786    2,037    2,156    8,793    3,097    1,418    3,499    3,461   11,475   20,268
Grade 2       1,478      824      883    2,423   5,608    2,629    1,203    2,968    1,219    8,019   13,627
Grade 3         676      712      768    2,184    4,340       720    2,767    2,925    1,222    7,634  11,974
Grade 4         613       654      62   1,324    2,653    1,128    2,418    2,156    1,729    7.,431   10,084
Grade 5           -       526      563       55   1,144       848      969    2,504    1,357    5,678    6,822
Grade 6           -        -       930      47      977      742       847      964    2,235    4,788    5,765
Sub-Total     4.,581    5,502    5,243    8,189   23,515    9,164    9,622   15,016  11,223   45,025  68,540
Secondary School
Grade I          364     210       220     656   1,450    3,295        960   1,431    3,733    9,419   10,869
Grade I3        284       14      166      646   1,110    1,638    1,663    1,179    2,205    6,685    7,795
Grade III       111         6     138       291     546    1,459       55°   1,920    1,954    5,883    6,429
Grade IV          -       101     116       11       228   1,210       390      617    2,357    4,574    4§802
SUb-Total       759       331     64P    1,604    3,334   -7602    3,563    5,147   10,249   26,561   29t895
Total      5,340    5,833    5,883    9,793  26,8849   16,766   13,185   20,163   21,472  71,586   98,435
Note: Based on the ratio of two students per subject per textbook.
December, 1975
I-



P H I L I P P I N E S
Third Education Project
Number of Textbooks and Tfeachers Guides (TG) to be Produced by Year of Manufacture/Distribution
(000 's)
Subject Area/Grade Level          1976-77            1977-78          1978-79        1979-80                     TOTALS
Text      TG    Text        TG    Text       TG   Text       TG            Text    TG   TOTAL
PRIMARY SCHOOL
Science         Grade 1          860       47       22       2       22        2    910       51           1814   102    1916
2          700      39       35        2      35        2    740       42           1510    85    1595
3          640      36       23        2      23        2    680       39           1366    79    1445
4         580       33       29        1      29        1    610       36           1248    71    1319
5                           520        6      27        0      27       1             574     7      581
6                                            460        5      23       1             483     6      489
Mathematics    Grade 1           860       47       22        2      22        2    910       51           1814   102    1916
2          700      39       35        2      35        2    740       42           1510    85    1595
3                           650       37      33        2      33       2            716    41       757
4                           590       34      30        2      30       2            650    38       688
5                                            530        6      27       0             557     6      563
6                                            460        5      23       0             483     5      488
Social Studies Grade 1                             880      49       45        2     45        3            970    54    1024
2                           710       40      36        2      36       2            782    44       826
3                                            670       38      34       2            704    40       744
14                                                           610       36            610    36       646
English Grade 1 Primer                             880       49      45)_---- 2       45)----- 3            970)---54    1994
Reader                            880) -45)                         45)                    970)
2 Textbook                                           730       41     37        2            767    43      810
3 Reader                                                             680) ... 4680)..314    13914
Grammar                                                            680)                    680)
Pilipino      1 Primer                                              900)      -      145)      3            945)___53    1943
Reader                                             900)             45)                    945)
2 Textbook                                                           740       42            740    42       782
TOTAL PRIMARY SCHOOL            4340      241    5276      226    5077       166   7795      394          22488  1027   23515



1976-77         1977-78         1978-79           1979-80                       TOTALS
Text     TG   Text       TG     Text      TG      Text      TG              Text      TG   TOTAL
SECONDARY SCHOOL
Science        Grade I              180       2      9       0         9      0       210       2               408       4     412
II            140       2      7       0         7      0       160       2               314       4     318
III                                            130       2        7       0               137       2     139
IV                                             110       1        6       0               116       1     117
Mathematics   Grade I               180       2      9       0         9       0      210       2               408       4     412
II            140       2      7       0         7      0       160       2               314       4     318
III           110       1      6       0         6      0       140       2               262       3     265
IV                           100       1         5      0         5       0               110       1     111
Social        ,Grade I                                                                210       2               210       2     212
Studies
II                                                              160       2               160       2     162
English        Grade I                             190       2        10      0        10       0               210       2     212
II                                             150      2         8       0               158       2     160
III                                                             140       2               140       2     142
Pilipino       Grade I                                               190       2        10      0               200       2     202
II                                                              150       2               150       2     152
Total Secondary School              750            328       3       633       7     1586      18              3297     37    3334
TOTAL ALL PUBLIC SCHOOLS          5090    250   5604    229        5710    173       9381    412             25785    1064  26849
CD
December , 1975                                                                                                                   N)



ANNEX 12
PHILIPPINES
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS BY YEAR AND CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(in thousands of US$)
Calendar Year                          1976      1977     1978       1979    1980    Total
O~~~~~~~~~~F                           F 2 3     4                  -T-g8 
Semester  6f2I3                                                        T  
1.  Civil Works                                                2,256       967                        3,223
(921)    (395)                       (1,316)
2.  Furniture                                           33       234        67                          334
(6)     (74)      (29)                        (109)
3.  Equipment                                          382    2,676        764                        3,822
(80)    (880)    (351)                       (1,311)
4.  Professional Services                               55        86        16                           157
(10)     (27)       (7)                          (44)
5.  Technical Assistance                               522       379       259        63        21    1,244
(98)    (107)      (98)      (30)      (14)    (347)
6.  Teacher Training                                             833       833       834       834    3,334
(244)    (331)    (421)    (426)  (1,422)
7.  Textbook Development
(a) Curriculum Development & Manuscripi:
Writing & Testing                          678       825    1,445                         2,948
(144)    (274)    (671)                        (1,089)
(b)  Editing and Publishing                       435       456       478       804               2,173
(87)    (137)    (195)    (416)                 (835)
(c)  Testing and Feedback                         511       537       562       945               2,555
(98)    (157)    (224)    (480)                 (959)
8.  Paper Brockerage and Handling                    1,308    1,373    1,439    2,420                 6,540
(305)    (518)    (778)  (1,756)              (3,357)
9.  Printing-finding Package                                   1,431    1,503    1,574    2,648    7,156
(453)    (648)    (859)  (1,778)  (3,738)
10.  Delivery of Prototype and Textbooks                          473       496       520       874    2,363
(148)    (212)    (280)    (581)  (1,221)
TOTAL 1 to 10                                    3,924   11,559    8,829    7,160    4,377   35,849
Contingencies                                      828    3,940    3,939    4,242    2.799   15,748
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                              4,752   15,499   12,768   11,402    7,176   51,597
NOTE:  Figures in brackets are contingency allowances - physical and price increase.
1/ Semesters begin after date of effectiveness.
December, 1975



-RD00  PPCATIDON 010
90*605D  P55561020 I   01010  I 055  50 1408  AR1 -PURPS
Cross       Sits                         T-ta                                hbyuipl   Dp-fu...to,,,    -ahlu-1a   waooup h              rIt  Pl           Editiog &T-tttg  &  &TSPk--ap             Bundig,  fp -oks  TOTAL    TOTAL
Ares u   Droalcasact  pODttu,ttttPt  Cuivi  Por.   Zcr-..r  Solatt--uIle             rru        Aasl--ro    S-orot  oss          sc I-sttu        Pulau          - pdiu-k   & SSedlira    F-a,3t.-o        Cides  P-s       32
1. 9iueagesrst IRsutiack Rourd)  -  -             -              -           100       3,750        3,850             -          3,300             -             2,191            14,6683       1,899850        490. 2,10  14,66  i536401776217    .11010   33664
wa-tloa    l-oto  C.ta   1111 -                    -             -              -           100         188           300            -            2 55                           7.827               715       6,300            -             -           -     03,39      2.053
(6) Social Studies Psoter CISC)  -  -   -               -           100         200          306             -            491            -              5,595               167       1,899             -            -           -      4,836       645~~~300495  16  18,1 
it   al3a  S-dias CauS'  (PU)      1,371         421         2,8007         318             41          30         40                5                                           ,67 a361--                                                                     233         ,47
Id  Oudosto. tue .4 Otair. ADtu 10123)1,630  367         2,447            .1             6           0          .8               1             6                             ,6                  225      2,77---                                          1.2         ,1
ha oiDs. Uo,aoklog (CLAN)              -                                       0-0D                      300          900            ---3,602                                                                  077---                                            6.0          233
Sub-tota  0 (.as.                                   788         5,24)          6.042         1,489       5,710       13,704P          463         4,7~37                          I2,0              16.297      19,26             490          336         177   77,203
9(75)                                119            (ol1            86          (1981       9761)      (1,6563           (64)         (631)           -              2940)            (,7)8233                      (65)         (72)         (24)            1,9
Fuoaigt  05               301           715             325         350.         otO          561,          000,           635           100,              112-              ODI         105            963.         4330        400.      2302.     055%9 67.  4  -  -15
lattaugs  (pasoc                       238~~~~~~~~~~~~"  2.76     i,12            521       5.139        7,472)           t7         3,076                            2,432             3.259       1,~916)          470          241          71   19,934
oap-oat   ((00(30)                                               (21101          (4241         1699       1663         (9u6)          (13)          (4 18)                          (324)             1403        (26)            (62)         (32)        (007              2,538
(a) 14 utafl Paooloooaut slae-                                   -              -            -        6, UD        6,370             -             ---                                                           --                          -                  6,300      ,840
(6) 34 usaossooa,         tbol ,                                                                    -       13,430       13,480             -                           ---                                             ---                                           1,0        5797
0. Osuitara cud Worksbopa  .  -  -    -           -            -             .              -         23.oDu                -                 -           -             -             -           -    05,000     3.331~~~~~~~~~~S'.00 3,33
uu-otl1)Pass-                                                 -                                    9,8          9,6                                       25,0                  -                                                          --               4,780
((US9-                                               -               -            -       1267         1207               -                       ( 3.3341              --                            ----5,971
Epuolgt  (5                                                                     915     ~    ~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 915P  101  455  455
,ohaga        Pao17,68                                                                                               17,802                                      2502,0
Poo=otat   9(5                                                                                           2.3073)     12.303)                                      (333)                                                                                                      2,706
16,,osu  (sabotad)                                            -             --                          -           -             --                         930                                                                           -            -            .       930       124
2.  46uoDtrt                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8,567       53,127               ui690    13 ..5
3.Ospbtu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        17,548    17ISu1    21,39
.a  ....oe _1    ab s  (lsol)             4,643         790         5,312          6,109          265         850        7,224            309            -                                                  ---                                                         ,53     0,004~
W~ 1  ro.oo    ao   6st           13,79         1,471       10,351          12,002          633       1,690       14,.349          391                                                                                                                         24,740      ,6
Sob-total 001)Doaoa   ~~~~~~~~ ~2~1,69             15,963         1,2              900       0,54        21)3             700            039                                                                      40,363       03,077       17.542  142,474
((1050)             (322)       (2,213)        (2,4~~~ ~ ~~~~~~           ~~~~~~17)  11281  (339  (0206)  199       (0)              ---                                             -         (6,4753      17,094)    (2,539)              16,991
8002112  15                          315           381 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~  915    375           201           635                                                                          981          435         606       615       613~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33    I2M  6
Oooat-        (Pso ..oD                                          4,759          5,439           31        2,206        8,041           141            6603                                                                     4662          3,907        7016   0630
Coposa  181)                                  (919         (6351          (709)         (421       (3031      (1,077)           (9            (81)                                                                     (9.220)       (3,00         19363             11,313
006-Outal 20 (Pears                  -             -              ~     ~     ~~~~        ~~~~         ~~~      ~     ~          ~~- 120  640  7691   1,059                                                                                       1,818
((8)-                                                                            (19)        (85)        (102             -           (01---                                                          ----34
0000112  35                                                             3~~ ~ ~~~~               ~~~~          ~~~~          ~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~35%  915  80  215  63  725  725
Sulog   Peo                                                                               42         376          619                         666                                                                                                           1,306
106050  (5                                                                                 6         (77          It)                         (921                                                                                                                      175
Sob-total t IPuals              -              -            -           -            -             -          0,610             -                 -                             -             -            -            -     2,510~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  261
Sotag      (Pse1,30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,305
C-ouPo -       1)                                                                                                                                   (1743                                                                                                                      7
600651t  I             aNo                                3,056~       1 1,1167       24,173         2,508      29,672       53,7            ,8           031           2,1               72,106           16,297      19,063         49,03        53,663      17.718  26,8,67
=0211646012          (369                                  1471        9,06            (,23            334)    (367           73  I          (3)         (,44'           334              (2,910)          (2,173)    (2.355)         (8,340)      (7.356)    (7,563)              3,6
0909208801  5                             515           915~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"  31 35       95           615            701           61            115               015               20          105            90           4 50.       401       48%       48
500101100  (88928                           ~~~~        ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~956  6,393  0,251  078  7500      3,974            737         5,7           I,50              2,432             3,259       1,918        47,08         24,'146      7,87  179,2)77
,     -8880802      (17                                    1113)         (945)           19681        (117)    (3,440)       (4,725)          (32)         (737)          (333)             (324)            (475)       (236)        (6.278)      (3,220)       19463             17,0
TOTAL  lOtacS                                                9,670          61~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~87  9,873  10,320  330  2,8102  00,665916                          6,262        7,292        25,108       1170,35~      9,2391   11,110
090T0194094085      1019                                                              (,0)            109)    11,311)        (2,736           144)          3)          (1,22            8001(35)                        (959'        (3.337)      (,3)        (1,221              13,748
11C590091           )fta..                                                            34,03         333        3833         7,3              1,513       11,9331       35,663            90,274            22,555      76,333        74,231        21,6986     16,006  386,977
122P81925CT18       )U                                                                14,539)         (463     (5133)        1003            (21         (,5)          (4,739            14.837)           13,0000     (3.514)        (9.897)    (10,894)      13,58u)             51.597
-0970858            (                                                                     305          36          915          615            255           615           110                                215          1.15          965          475          41       45        495
NM1008               Paso.                                                            1023           1,165     34,712       44,108            301         7,31          3,70              3,7               4,747       2,797        71,243       3c,023       11,20    199,11
C058TG9P5916        1159                                                              (1,343)        (18        4,2)         (,149)           (431          909)          (5)61            (4501             163          37')       )"9,O)        (5,09 3)    (0.4896)            25,205
I/ 201OUptt,aOrlp.o
1JM              -1iatuO  Ptl. cod T,-io,
Istacb-p 1979






OH    H                    H    O      -               I
20                |             S0 } Or O2 20   IR
o  89r*          n                               S
w                  5                   
"~~~~~~                                        2 
S    29 0       9          9 S w 
r         HO eH    S      
Sw   S   o  29                         E°
x~~~~   H
H    H    OH                          oo0
t ..e# ~~'_ _
u   £         u >      w      u      w           H| o |C
L             H    HO °sa05 0°      !                        21I
I        H   0 H                                        H    ww
|H     M       H                          *22
H               _                       I   d^
°~~~~' OH H.                     -       
O    W    .   W       _ ~~ 5O
S                       9 u S c     S 
S       - W                      D






PHILIPPINES
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES
Assumed Price Increases 1976-1980
(in %)                                    Average result of
price increase
following implementa-
Exiected Price Increase Percentages                             tion phasing
1976           1977            1978             1979           1280
Local Foreign Local Foreign Local Foreign Local Foreign Local Foreign Local Foreign Total
1. Civil Works                  14      14      12      12      12      12      12      12      10      10      28      28     28
2. Furnitureg/& Equipment-/    10       10       8      10       8      10       8      10       8      10      19)    22)    20a/
20)    22)    22./
3. Teacher Training              8      12       8      12       8      10       8       8       8       8      28      41     30
4. Curriculum Development
& Manuscript Writing        10      12      10      10      10     10        8       8       8       8      24      26     25
5. Paper Brokerage and
Handling                    14      12      12      12      10      12      10      12      10      10      38      38     38
6. Professional Services )                                                                                      15      19     16
Technical Assistance  )                                                                                      15     17      16
Editing & Publishing  )                                                                                      24      32     26
Testing & Feedback    )       8      12       8      10       8      10       8       8       8       8      24      32     25
Printing, Binding &   )
Packaging             )34                                                                                           44     38
Delivery               )34                                                                                           4      38
December, 1975
CD
I.-'



ANNEX 15
PHILIPPINES
THIfiD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUNAfY OF ESTIMATED FOREIGN EXCHANGE COSTS BY CAT9CORIES
% of Total
Pesos (million)        US$ (million)        Costs Exclud-
Local Foreign Total  Local ForeiM Total  ing Contingencies
1. Ciiil Works                16.92   7.25  24.17   2.25   0.97   3.22          9.0%
2.  Furniture                  1.63   o.88   2.51   0.22   0.12   0.34         0.9%
3.  Equipment                  2.87  25.80  28.67   0.38   3.44   3.82         10.7%
4.  Professional Services      0.94   0.24   1.18   0.13   0.03   0.16          0.4%
5.  Technical Assistance       3.66   5.67   9.33   0.47   0.77   1.24          3.5%
6.  Teacher Training          22.50   2.50  25.00   3.00   0.33   3.33          9.3%
7.  Textbook Development      49.97   7.61  57.58   6.67   1.01   7.68         21.4%
8.  Paper                      1.96  47.09  490o5   0.26   6.28   6.54         18.2%
9.  Printing                  29.51  24.15  53.66   3.94   3.22   7.16         20-.0%
10.  Delivery                  10.63   7.09  17.72   1.41   0.95   2.36          6.6%
Total Base Cost          140.59 128.28 268.87 18.73  17.12  35.85        100.0%
11. Contingencies
(a) Physical 10%          14.06  12.83  26.89   1.88   1.71   3.59        10.0%
(b) Price Increase 031   43.22  48.o0  91.22   5.76   6.40  12.16         33.9%
Total Contingencies (444 57.28  60.83 118.11   7.64   8.11  15.75          43.9%
TOTAL COSTS INCLUDING   197.87 189.11 386.98  26.37  25.23  51.60        143.9%
CONTINGENCIES
February, 1976



ANNEX 16
Page 1
RESPONSIBILITIES OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
PHILIPPINES
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Responsibilities of EDPITAF
1. Administration of the contracts with the consultant architects.
2. Preparation of a detailed and comprehensive implementation chart
based on the Critical Path Method (CPM) or other similar method.
3. Preparation of architectural briefs.
4. Arrangements for review and approval by appropriate authorities.
5. Review the architectural drawings.
6. Preparation of contract packaging.
7. Preparation of lists of all furniture and equipment.
8. Arrangements for procurement, preparation of bidding and contract
documentation, evaluation of bids and recommendation of awards
for civil works, furniture and equipment.
9. Monitoring project implementation including regular supervision.
10. Preparation and administration in consultation with the appropriate
authorities, of the technical assistance services.
11. Liaison with the Bank and all appropriate authorities, on matters
relating to implementation.
12. Keeping of project accounts and preparation of interim evaluations
and financial statements.
13. Preparation of application for withdrawals.
14. Evaluation of project progress and preparation of quarterly progress
reports.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
PHILIPPINES
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Responsibilities of the Textbook Board
1.  Management of contracts for curriculum development, writing and
testing.
2.  Provide support serv-ces such as photography, design, typesetting
and printing of prototype editions.
3. Supervise testing and revision of textbooks.
4. Coordinate work of various author teams.
5. Approve textbook titles.
6. Organize, supervise and evaluate Teacher Training Program.
7. Advise the Textbook Production Service on the volume, timing and
types of books to be printed.
8.  Evaluate the results of the textbook program.
9.  Purchase paper through I.C.B.
10. Let and manage contracts for printing and binding.
11. Manage distribution of textbooks from printer to schools.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
PHIIPPINES
THIRD EDUCATION PRLOJECT
Responsibilities of the Office of Planning Services (OPS)
of the Department of Education and Culture
1. Manage a centralized computer processing of statistics.
2.  Set priorities regarding data needs.
3.  Design and test forms and procedures for data collection and
processing.
4. Schedule and phase implementation.
5.  Computer programming.
6. Staff training.
February, 1976



ANNEX 17
PHILIPPINES
THIRiD EDUCATION PROJECT
FORECAST OF DISBURSEMENTS
TOTAI
SEM4ESTERLY      ACCUKJLATED             BALANCE
DISBuRSEMKErS   DISBURSEMENTS           UNDISBJRSED
SEBMTER          ,    USmilLion %    US$million           US$million
1.                    0.2       0.8%     0.2             24.8
2           3.2%      o.8       4.0%     1.0             24.0
3           5.2%       1.3      9.2%     2.3             22.7
4          13.6%       3.14    22.8%     5.7             19.3
5          16.0%       4.0    38.8%      9.7            15.3
6          12.8%       3.2    51.6%    12.9              12.1
7          11.6%       2.9    63.2%    15.8               9.2
8          12.8%       3.2     76.0%   l9.0               6.o
9          12.8%       3.2     88.8%    22.2               2.8
10          11.2%       2.8   100.0%    25.0                0.0
December, 1975



ANNEX 18
Page 1
TH I RD  ED UC A T ION  P ROJEBC T
D ET AI L ED  I MP L E MEN T A PICN  S CH ED UL E
1 976 _              1 97 7              1 97 8               1 97 9
Responsibility       3PM MUJ JAS OND   JPM AUS JAS CND   J 3P  AMU JAS CUD   JFM AM4  JAS OND
A. ORGANIZATICNAL ACTIVITIES
1.  Preparation of TOE for the key staff of the Textbook    EDPITAP                       Ix
Hoard Secretariat 
2.  Staff appointmeots for the Textbook Hoard.   ....               DEC                  . .xy  x
Secretariat (see Annex 19)
3.  Establishmuent of offices for the  Textbook.DE  . . ..         DCXX
Hoard Secretariat 
4.  Development of Accouniting Procedures and Bank . . . .  EDPITAP                      ..ysXXXLI
Approval[
5.  Submission of audited financial statements to . . . .  EDPITAF.                                            xx                  XXI                  xx~
the Hank
6.  Amendment to the implementing rules and regulations             DEC                  xxx
of PD 687 of the Textbook Hoard in the  DEC                                          ~
Phase I                                                                                    1974                1975                 1976                1977
Phase II                                                                                   1975                1976                 1977                1978
Phase III                                                                                  1976                1977                 1978                1979
Phase IV                                                                                   1977                1978                 1979                1980
Phase V                                                                                    1978                1979                 1980                1981
Phase VI                                                      __________                   1979                1980                 1981                1982
H.  TEXTBOOK PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES                                                        JFM AMt] JAS OND   3PM AMi JAS 0OND   3FM AMU JAS CNN   JFM AMU JAS 0OND
1. Writing and Testing
a)  Planning  and Organization. ............TB                                                   ixx
b)  Writing, Editing, Designing and Testing.  .......TB and COCa                         .           X XXX   XX
c)  Typesetting and Proofreading .1....8     ...T  and COCa                          ...   . xxx
d)  Printing of Prototypes.  ..............TB                                                                   X X 
e)  Submission of Evaluation Programn and Hank Approval           EDPITAF                               XX   XE
f)  Briefing of Evaluators.  ..............CDCs                              ..XXX
g)  Hook Tryout and Evaluation.  ............TB and CDCs                            .         .....     .            X~XX  Fxx    XXXiXX
h)  Hevisions and Preparation for Publication.  .....TH and CDCa                    .     . ..      ..   ...XXX XXX
2.  TahrTann 
a)  Submission of Teacher Training Program to the Hank            EDPITAF                           xx 
b)  Workshop Curriculum Development.  ..........CDCs                                                    ..                               X XX
c)  Training of Teacher Trainers ....           . .......CDCs                                                        .I   ..XX
d)  Training of Development High School Teachers . . .    HSDCs                                                                                   X                .. ......  X 
e)  Teacher Workshops .......              . ..........RSDCs, DHSs &DPSs ......                                                                         xx X
3. Paper Procurement
a)  Preparation of Hid Documents .  ....18  ...T                                          . .'. .xxx
6)  Submission of Hid Documents for HanLk Approval  .             TB.XTB
c)  Invitation to Bids.THXXX  i
d)  Hid Dpening and Evaluation.  ............TBH...XX..    
)Submission of Bid Analysis to the Hank.  ......TB                                                          .        Walx
- Baunt Akpproval a-d ConLract Avards.  .. ......TB                                                                             mI)C
Qua r --me,nt of Procurement and Delivery.  .....TBHx xxxx
itu1975



ANNE lB
Page 2
Phase I                                                                                  1974                1975                1976                1977
Phase II                                                                                 1975                1976                1977                1978
Phase III                                                                                1976                1977                1978                1979
Phase IV                                                                                 1977                1978                1979                1980
Phase V                                                                                  1978                1979                1980                1981
Phase VI                                                                                 1979                1980                1981                1982
Responsibility       JFM,AMU JAS OND   JPM AMU JAS ODM   JPM AMU JAS OND   JPM AM4 JAS OND
4.  Printing                                                            o
a)  Preparation of Prequalification Documents.   .....TB                                          . . . ... . XX xI
b)  Prequalification of Printers .B . . .                                     . . ...... TB....xxX                                           I
c)  Submission of Prequalified Printers list for  . . . .  TB                          ..                                       xI
Bank ApprovalI
d)  Preparation of Bid Documents.   ........... TB                                               . .    . ...        ...XI  XK 
e)  Submission of Bid Documents for Bank Approval. . . .   TB                                                   . . .           .......xi1X
f)  Invitation of Bids.  .. ............. TB                                                    I~X
g)  Bid Opening  m~d Evaluation.  ............ TB                                       . . .        .....                       ...Xi
h)  Submission of Bid Analysis to the Bank .T  . . . .                                                               I                 
i)  Bank Approval and Contract Awards.  .........TB                                    . . .                 . . .  . .... ......         XXI
j)Book manufacturing (print fold bind)                         TB                                                                           x 
5.  Warehousing and Distribution
a)  Submission of a Development Schedule for the  . . . .  EDPITAF..........xxx~
Warehousing and Distribution System
b)  Dispatch of Books from Printers to. ........ TB......... ........ ....                                                                     XX   xI
Central Warehouse
c)  Central Inventory Control & Auditing.   ....... TB3...                                                                                    . X XX
d)  Scheduling for Provincial Dispatches.  ....... TB3                                     .....            ........XX   XX
e)  Dispatching to Provincial Warehouses.  ....... TB                                   ........ ........x XX
f)  Provincial Inventory Control and Auditing .T                              . . . .XXX  ..... .                                                         x
g)  Scheduling for School Dispatches.  ......... TB                                     .                                                       X...         XXIX ...     
h)  Dispatching to Schools. ...............TB                                              ......... ........ xxxI XX
i)  Receiving of Books               ............ School Frincipals   ........ x
C.  PHYSICAL. FACILITY ACTIVITIES                                                             1 9 76              1 9 77              19 78               1 97 9
1.  General                                                                             JPM AMJ JAS ND   JFI  M AMU JAS OND   1PM AM.) JAS OND   1PM AMl JAS ONE
a)Selection of Consultant Architects.  ........ EDPITAF                                XX XXIX
b)  Appointment of Consultant Architects         ....... EDPITAF                       .     XX
c)  Prequalification of Contractors.  ..........EDPITAF                                ... .    XXXI  XX
d)  Selectifn of Contractors and Bask Approval.   .... EDPITAF                                               XX
2.  Civil Works - CDCa
a)  Preparation of Architectural Briefs.  ........EDPITAF                              .XxIxIXXX
b)  Preparation of Schematic Designs .   .....S                    DPITAF/Cons.ltant  .       .XXX XI
c)  Submission of Schematic Designs for. ........EDPITAIF                                          XI XI
Bank Approval
d)  Preparation of worlking drawing specifications,  .   .EDPITAF/Cons.ltant                ....XX:X  xxIx 
cost s-i-,tes and contract documents
oC        K-..g                          . .      H2r,3 IiSIiTAF.x XI
$aIr.  .5 15Va
.    .    .    . .   .    .    . .    .      .    . .  E PITAP  . . . . . . .,x
I 'eigand evaluation.   ........                    EDPITAF/ionsultant .XI.                            XIx
-~ r, civ,r  A          .. .   . EDPITAI...XX.Ix
aw ,ards.  .........EDPITAP.X1 x
_od .     ..    ..    ..    ..   DPITAy/Co.sultan.tLtxim   XXX'XX



ANNEX lB
Page 3
1 97 6             1 9 77              197 8               1 97 9
Responsibility        JFKMU JAB OND   JFM AMUJAS 01)   JFM AKJ] JAS 0N0   JFM AMU JAS OND
of
3. Furniture and Equipment -CDCa. _SODs, and OHSs
a)  Review of educational programs and curricula . . . .   ED)pITAy                     xxx xxx
and preparation of standard lists
b)  Preparation of existing inventory                             EDPITAF                   XXX X
c)  Preparation of waster list and submission .B..                 O .EPITAF           .. . XXiXXX
for Bank approval 
d)  Preparation of specifications, drawings  .B..O . EPITAF/                                           X   XXX XXX:
and cost estimates                                           ConsultantsI 
e)  Submission of Bidding Documents for .  ...BO ..EPITAF.xx
Bank approval
f)  Invitation of Bids . ......                        ..... EPITAF.X.....                                         xx              J
g)  Bid opening aad evaluation .  .....RO  ... EPITAF......... .....XXj
h)  Submission of Bid Analysis to the Bank . ...                  R . EPITAF.X.....                                      .X 
i)  Back approval and contract award.  ......... EDPITAF......... ......xx
J)  Commencement of procurement, manufacturing.   ....EDPITAF                          . .............                     X   XXXXXX
and delivery
4.  Civil Works - National Warehouse
a)  Preparation of architectural briefs........                      EDPITAF            lxxxxx
b)  Site survey, evaluation and acquisition.......                  EDPITAF            . .XXX
c)  Preparation of schematic design...........BEDPITAF/                                 . .  . .XXX X
Consultants
d)  Submission of schematic design for . ...RO .. EPITAF                                .X   .X 
Bank approval
e)  Preparation of working drawings, specifications,             EDPITAF/              .      . . . .XX    XX
cost estimates and contract documents.   .......Consultants
f)  Submnission of bidding document for Bank approval* .         BO.EDITAF              ........ XX
g)  Invitat ion of Bids ..................   EDPITAT.JJ..'.                                        ..  
h)  Bid  opening and evaluation.   ............EDPITAI'....        ..                                            XX
i)  Submission of bid analysis to the Bank . ...R ..EPITAF.......                                                 XX
j)  Bank approval and contract award . ....NO ...EPITAF......... .. X X
k)  Construction period .B......                         .....EPITAF/                                  . .. ....XXX xxx   XXX XXXi
Consultants
5. Furniture & Equipment - National Warehouse
a)  Preparation of master list and submission                    EDPITAF                           X XXX
for Bank approval .................
b)  Preparation of specifications, drawings                       EDPITAF/                      . ....X   XXX X
and cost estimates. ................                         Consultants
c)  Submission of bidding documents for                          EDPITAF.........                             X X 
Bank approval ..............                     .I. I.
d)  Invitation of Bids .B......O                         .....EPITAF.......                                      xxx
e)  Bid opening and evaluation . .....                     ....EPITAF......... ...XX
f S,--   -7, 'o-    7 nlvats to the Rank........               EDPPTTAF                   .                       '              XXp
o:)  Bank approval and contract awards .   ....RO ..EPITAF.XX
'rcract   -"r,za clau               EDPITAF.I.XjXXX   XX  XXXJXX
-ia  tlivery .....................
1-,1- l76



ANNEX 18
Page 4
1 97 6              1 9 77               1 97 8              1897 9
Respon..ibility       JFM AMU  JAS 014D   JFM MUJ JAS 0OND   JFM AMU JAS 0141   JFM AMJ JAS 0ON1
of
6.  Civil Works- Provi.cial/Sub-pro~incial Warehouses
a)  Preparation of architectural briefs.   ........EDPITAP                                 ml) xix
b)  Site survey evaluation and acquisition    ......                  EDPIrAp               X XXX XXX
c)  Preparation of schematic design ...........EDPITAF/Consultant..     XXX XXX   X
d)  Subiission of schematic designs for . .....                    B  DPMTF                    .         xx   X
Blank approval                                                                           F        J    ~     x      
e)  Preparation of working drawings, specificatiOns,               EDPITAF/                .   .   .~
coat estimates and contract documents                         Consultants                                                              I
f)  Submission of bidding documents for                .B)IA . .  . . .  . . EDI,                                 Xxx
Bank approval
g)  Invitation of Bids.   ................EDPITAF.XX  XX
h)  Bid opening and evaluation   ............                      ED)PTAF/CaOsultant..
i)  Submission of bid analysis to the Back              .          B)A                                                   XX X
j)  Bank approval and contract award . ....BO .. EPITAF                                                 .                 XXX
k)  Construction period.  ............... EDPITAF/Consultant  ..........                                           .          XXX   XX  Xxxi
7.  Furniture & Esaip-eet - Provincial/Sub-Lrovincial 
warehouses
a)  Preparation of master list and submission......                E1PITAF/Experts          .        Xxx X X XXX
for Bank approval 
b)  Preparation of specifications, drawings              ..... EDPITkF/                                         XX XXX'X
and coat estimates                                            Consul-ants         
c)  Submission of bidding docunents f or         .......              EDPITA1I                                 .    XX~x
Bank approval                                                                                                      XX
d) Invitation of Bids. .........               DPITAF I'J
e)  Bid opening and evaluation ............    EDPITAF/Cnno ..tant                             ... . ..          .        XYXX
f)  S.bnission of bid analysis to the Bank .    .    ..                .AI..'.                            .xxx
g)  Bank approval and contract award.  ........                    EDPITAI.......xx   x
h)  Commnencement of procurement, manufacturing  . . . .    EDPITAF                                                                xx  M
and delivery
1 9 76              1 97 7               1 97 8              1 9 79
D. TPeCHNTC.AL ASSTSTAN4CE ACTI/ITIES
(For details see attachment B)                                                       JFM AMJ JAS ONN   JFM AMU JASBN            F   M   AS OND JFM AM) JAB 0ON)
1.  Teatbook Production and Distribution
a)  Preparation of TOR for F.m7ert Services.  ...... EDPITAB                              XXX
and Sank approval
b)  Recruitment of Expects .E.DP.IT.AE.   .XXiX
c)  Selection of Experts and 3ank approval.    ..... EDPITAF                             .  X  mx
d)  Appointment of Export.    .............                        EDPITAF               .      XX xx
e)  taper t fevcsperiod......g        ...                          EPITAFpTB/              ......XXX   m   XX  XXX XXX   xxx Xxx  mx  mY    xxx xxx mKXxxx
f)  Sele,ction of candidastes for fellowship.  .....               EDFITAF               .   ~xx m,      m          mx     lxxx         mx       mx          mx       XXX
g)  --ellowships training period  ............                     EDPITAF                . . . .  xx  X X  xxx.m  XXXlXXX    x   xx m           mm l0xx    xxx  m   m XXX'K
2. MN.n QeOeI2t Information System
a~Preparation of TOR for Esnert Services              .          OES                    X                    xX
and Bank approvai                                                                                          xx
via.DE~~~~~~~~OS                                      XX                   xx         ~         x
c)  Selection of Experts and lank approval .......DOPI                                        X                  X Bl                 kXX
~f Hv,eut .D.....E                   .... OS                          . .   XXX                                      XX.
e3 Paart Ssrvices period .  .....                                 E ....OS             .       X XX                Xx XXX XX
i,i  Fa icilosahip.  ......EDEITAF                              xxlxx.       xxx        in         x         i.
-       . irs  raf ~perfod .  ....BO  ... EPITAF                                      I     xx  xxcx  ininIXXXX!XXX    xx   3 



ANNEX 18
Page 5
1 9 7 6           1 9 7 7            1 9 7 8            1 9 7 9
Responsibility       JFM      JAS OND   JFM AMJ JAS OND   JFM AMJ JAS OND   JFM AMJ.JAS.OND
of                                                                                f
3.  Mass Media Pre-Investment Study
a.  Preparation of TOR for Expert Services
and Bank approval                                          EDPITAF .X .                                                   :
b.  Recruitment of Experts                                     EDPITAF  . .  . ..
c.  Selection of Experts                                       EDPITAF   .          XX
d)  Appointment of Expert                                      EDPITAF     . .. . xx
e)  Expert Services period                                     EDPITAF      . . .   . X,XXXiXXXcXxx   xx  II
PHASE I     Science            Primary Grade    1, 2, 3, 4                     PHASE IV    Science           Primary Grade    1, 2, 3, 4
Secondary Grade  I, II                                                        Secondary Grade  I, It
Mathematics       Primary Grade    1  2                                        Mathematics      Primary Grade    1, 2
Secondary Grade  I, II, III                                                   Secondary Grade  I, II, III
PHASE II    Science            Primary Grade    5                                           Social Studies  Primary Grade    4
Secondary Grade  III, IV                                                      Secondary Grade  I, II
Mathematics       Primary Grade    3, 4                                        English          Primary Grade    3 Reader, 3 Grammar
Secondary  Grade IV                                                           Secondary Grade  III
Social Studies   Primary Grade    1, 2, 3                                      Pilipino         Primary Grade    2 Textbook
English           Primary Grade    I Primer, I Reader                                           Secondary Grade  II
Secondary Grade  I                              PHASE V      Social Studies  Secondary III
PHASE III   Science            Primary Grade    6                                           English          Primary Grade    4 Reader, 4 Grammar
Mathematics       Primary Grade    5, 6                                                                            5 Reader, 5 Grammar
Social Studies   Primary Grade    3                                                             Secondary Grade  III
English           Primary Grade    2 Textbook                                  Pilipiuo         Primary Grade    3 Reader, 3 Grammar
Secondary Grade  II                                                                             4 Reader, 4 Grammar
Pilipino          Primary Grade    1 Primer, I Reader                                           Secondary Grade  III, IV
Secondary Grade  I                             PHASE VI    Social Studies  Secondary Grade  IV
English          Primary Grade    6 Reader, 6 Grammar
Pilipino         Primary Grade    5 Reader, 5 Grammar
6 Reader, 6 Grammar
January 1976



ANNEX 19
PHTIIPPINES THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF STAFF APPOINTMENTS FOR
THE TEXTB()OK BOARD SECRETARIAT
1.  Director                          Apnrox. June 1, 1976 a/
2.  Editor-in-Chief                   Arprox. June 1, 1976 a/
Editor in Math & Science                   Oct. 1, 1976
Editor in Languages                        Jan. 1, 1977
Editor in Social Studies                   Aug. 1, 1976
Editor in Practical Subjects               Mar. 1, 1977
Testing Manager                            Aug. 1, 1976
3.  Production Chief                  Atrrox. June 1, 1976 a/
Staff Designer                             Aug. 1, 1976
Illustrators                               Oct. 1, 1976
Copy Editors                               Feb. 1, 1977
Paste-up Artists                           Jan. 1, 1977
Typesetters                                Jan. 1, 1978  b/
Photographic Developer                     Jan. 1, 1978  b/
Printer                                    Jan. 1, 1978  b/
. Manufacturing Chief                Arnrox. June 1, 1976 a/
Procurement Officer                        July 1, 1976
Printing Supervisors                       Aug. 1, 1976
5.  Distribution Chief                         July 1, 1976
Warehouse Director                         Oct. 1, 1977 c/
Scheduler                                  Oct. 1, 1976
Disratcher                                 Oct. 1, 1976
District Warehouse Directors              (as warehouses completed)
BookkeeFers                                July 1, 1976
6.  Liaison Manager                            July 1, 1976
Workshop Consultants                       Jan. 1, 1977
Teacher Liaisers                           Jan. 1, 1977
7.  Chief Controller                           July 1, 1976
Paper Inventory Controller                 Aug. 1, 1976
Book      "          i                     Oct. 1, 1976
Accountants                                Aug. 1, 1976
Billing Clerks                             Oct. 1, 1976
Bookkeepers                                Oct. 1, 1976
a/  Condition of Loan Effectiveness.
h/  To be phased with delivery of equipment.
c/ To be phased with completion of construction of central warehouse.



PHILIPPINES
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID 1971
ENROLLMENT IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS
PERCENT OF AGE
LEVEL    L,,ADES                                                                                                                                               TOTAL GROUP IN SCHOOL I
GRADUATE   15+                                                                16,200 E      21,600                                                                37,800        3
14                                                           52,800             69,800
TERTIARY
13                                                          57,900               70,500
688,100       21
12                                                         78,200                  97,300
11                                                        99.800                     124,000
SECONDARY
10                                                   156,000                           63.400
9                                                191,200 ||202,315
8                                            232,300                       .. _             227,100
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,723,300                                                    46
7                                       289,800                                                 272,400
ELEMENTARY
6                               399,600                                                                 408,400
5                              461,000                                                                    454,500
4                       534,500                                                                                 514,700
6,764,500     104
3                   604,700                                                                                       566,100
2              665,900                                                                                                 620,300
1    799,600                                    .                                                                              735,100
MALE                              FEMALE
1000                              500                                 0                                500                                1000
in Thousands
1 Enrollment includes overayed pupils                                                                                                               World Bank-15403






PHILIPPINES
STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL SYSTEM OF EDUCATION
AGE                         I   ( -7 | 8  | 9   |f 10  | 11 |12( |~ | 13|14!15 |J16!           7! 18   19 !20    21 !22 | 23 |24i 2|
AGE             1 7 1 8   9  11   I 11] 12 H~                   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 16 II I 
GRADE                            (i()i( ()i(7   'S ea  Yat                            Year  Year'  r           rS   n   r    t    t  f   f
I t  Ya I          Y     Year:    !,  Y          i    !ea
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I  :         :I             I    I              i                        I
%.  ,.1  I               I                                           I
PRE-                                                                          1   T     I I I   I  I  I
LEVEL        ELEMENTARY           _     ELEMENTARY           _         SECONDARY                 TERTIARY        _       GRADUATE
I   |   PRIMARY  INTER-
M I            Y                        AGRICULTURE  Ya er
I                        COMMERCE
I GENERAL                      
I   l   l  l  HIGH  SCHOOLS  TEACHER I    I
PRE- TUAEDUCATIONT
PRIMARY  INTER-RRI
NAOTUREF[                  |   0                              ;    HIGH SCHOOLS              LIBERAL ARTS
PROGRAM_
PROGRAM                                               VOCATIONAL                ENGINEERING
I   I                             j l    INSTITUTIONS            LAW
I   I                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~Pilot BarrioLA
Development              A.B. PROGRAM       LAW  PROPER
Schools                  MEDICINE
Schools of Arts         TECH
I  l   l                     l    & Trades,                 AND
|   I l                      l    Agricultural High         AGRIC
I   I l                      I        Schools               TECHNICI AN
Fisheries High          TRAINING
Schools
Included in the project                                   ;
World Bank-6438(3R)






PHILIPPINES
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE
ORGANIZATION CHART PRIOR TO JULY 1975
SEC.RETARy OEFLUCATION                                         SECRETARDY OF EDUCATION
AS CHAIRMAN
UNDERSECRETARY       UNDERSECRETARY
OF EDUCATION         OF EDUCATION
I                                 I                             1                                                                                                                               1 _I  -'T' 
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
INVESTIGATON SECTION
01S'N0,10  IIOF PNS                                           I    NO  DCTO                     PERSONNEL SECTION                 NOTIONAL HOARD                                                 ROARS OF MEDCAL             HOARDS OF TEATE COLLEDES
LANUA OE SN   S               TE     AL ADVISARY STAF PL                L                          RECORDS SECTION                   OF EDUCATION LO-T   OF TEXTFYOOS                                  EDUCATION                    AND ONIVERSITIES
RUDGET AND FINANCE DIVISION
ACCOUNTING DIVISION
INTERNAL AUDIT UNIT_
I                               I                               I                               I                               I                                II.
I      ~I                                               I                                I                              I                                I                                
--                                                                          -   ----------------…
RAE F OP UBLIC SCHOOLS         UREAo OF VOCATIONAL         BRTEAU OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS           NATIONAL LISHARY               ISTUEONAOALNATIONAL HISTORICAL                                    NATIONAL MUDEUM
EDUCATION                                                                                       LAORECDM"ISSION
SCHOOLS                         SCHDOOLS                        SCHOOLS
SOURCE           .m Ed-l- -d                                                                       A- -T- -T.IeIA,UTIsV…                     _         C-TSUMV,Iv-                                                                             WUHORE-I54D4






PHILIPPINES
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE
ORGANIZATION CHART AS OF JULY 1975
SECRETARY
_ UNDERSECRETARY --OF EDCATN
STUDENTS' LOAN           TEXTBOOK              BOARD OF          BO OF OF CHARTERED         PROFESSIONAL
|FUND AUTHORITY            BOARD            HIGHER EDUCATION      STATE COLLEGES AND           BOARDS
I                                                                        I
|    PLANNING      I I     FINANCIAL            ADMINISTRATIVE          INFORMATION-
SERVICE  J  SERVICE                               F~~~~~~~~~UBLICATION
I                     I                             SERVICECSERVICE
NATUSNAMNATONAL                              HISTORICAL            OF                     INSTITUTE O|  ELEMENtARY N                |  SECONDARY           |     HIGHER
I  NATIONAL         'ST"' INSTIISTUNTE IUAUF                                          BEAU OFE R E A  OF
L    I        I4 j                          =T,                           I                B,             1 
MUSEUM  I  I    ~LIB'oRAR                  R                   NATIOINAIL   I       RTS-LETTERS           ELEENAR
I  I                    ~~~~~~~INSTITUTE      LAGAGE                                        EUAIN         j         DCTONEDUCATION 
REGINALDIRECTORIOFEDUATION!/
ADMINISTRATIV~E         FINANCE AND            ELEMENTARY             SECONDAR
DIVISION           BUDGET DIVISION          EDUCATION              EDUCATION              E
DIVISION              DIVISION               DIVSO
PROVINCIAL/CITY SCHOOL DIVISIONS
1/ There are to be 11 regions.
SOURCE: Department oi Education and Culture.                                                                                                                       World Bank-15405R)I






PHILIPPINES
ORGANIZATION OF TEXTBOOK PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION
Secretary of Education and Culture                          Basic  ducation Textbook
I  l       us    Development Coordinating
Undersecretary of Education and Culture                                 Council
Textuook Board
|Director of the Secretaria to the Textbook Board|
_                          _    ,I                                                 1
Control Un"                        Manufatu,ing Unit                      Distribution Unit                            Editorial Unit                        Production Unit                        Liaison Unit
Chief Controller                     Manufacturing Chief                    Distribution Chief                           Editor-in-Chief                       Production Chief                      Liaison Manager
Paper Inventory Controller               Procurement Officer                    Warehouse Director                      Editor in Math, and Science                  Staff Designer                   Workshop Consultants
Book Inventory Controller                Printing Supervisors                       Scheduler                              Editor in Languages                        Illustrators                       Teacher Liaisers
Accountants                                                                  Dispatcher                           Editor in Social Studies                    Copy Editors
Billing Clerks                                                       District Warehouse Directors                Editor in Practical Subjects                Paste-up Artists
Bookkeepers                                                                 Bookkeepers                              Testing Manager                           Typesetters
Photographic IDeveloper
______________________________Printer                            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
World Bank-15406(R)             S
st






PHILIPPINES                                                                                 CHART 6
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF PHYSICAL FACILITIES
ACTIVI T                         1975                  19                          1977                      1978                        1979                       198_
A V  _                                                                                                Mi  A M N DIJ JI A IS 01  iD jFAj j JA ON0
CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT CENTERS
Civil Works
Data Preparation
Selection of Architects
Schematic Design
Contract Documents
Tender & Contract Awards
IERD Tent. Supervision & Approval                    t            _
Consttoction                                                                                                     _     _
Defects Liability
Furniture & Equipment to
E.isting Facilities (Including SDCs
& DHSs)
Data Preparation                                  looll
Master Lists                                      lai 
Tender Documents
Tendnr & Contract Awards
IBRD Tent. Super-ision & Approval                    * *          _
Delivery & Installation
Guarantee Period
Furniture & Equipment to
New CDCs
Data Preparat ion
Master Lists
Tender Documents
Tender & Contract Awards
IBRD Tent. Supervision & Apptoval                    *  *         _
Delivery & Installation-
Guarantee Period
NATIONAL WAREHOUSE
Civi Works
Data Preparatiotn                                 Nov
Selection of Architects
Schematic Design
Contract Documents
Tender & Contract Awards                                                               _
IBRD Tent. Supervision & Approval                    11 *          _ 
Co-st-rotionI
Detects Liability
Furniture & Equipment
Data Preparaptian
Matter Lists
Tender Documents
Tender & Contract Awards
IBRD Tent. tuper-rsion & Approval -
Delivery & Installtion 
Guarantee Period
WAREHOUSES -Prooinnial!Si,h-Provincjal
Civl Works
Data Preparation
Selection of Architects
Schematic Desisn
Contract Documents                                                               "    _
Tender & Contract Awards
IBRD Tent. Superwiviso & Approval                         
Cotstruction
Defects L.biah ity
Furniture & Equipment
Data Preparation                                  li      _      _             _
Mascer Lists
Tender Documerits
Tender & Contract Awards
IBRD Tent. Sapervision & Approval
Delivery & Installation
Guarantee Period                                                                                                      I _ _  _
mc,ludes re-installation of equipment and furniture already delivered to temporary facilirins.
World Bank-15744



