Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 FILE  CQPV
Report No. 2270a-SE
SENEGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
May 1, 1979
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS ,
Currency Unit = CFAF
US$1.00         =  CFAF 220
MEASURES
1 m2            =  3.28 ft.
1 m 2           =  10.76 sq. ft.
1 km           =  0.38 sq. mile
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SENEGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BASIC DATA
I.   THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR .......................            1
A.   Social and Economic Factors Affecting the Sector ...            1
B.   The Education Sector ...............................            1
C.   Manpower and Employment ..............    ..............        5
D.   The Government's Educational Objectives ............            6
E.   The Bank Group's Role and Strategy    . .................       8
Il.   THE PROJECT .............................................           12
A. Project Summary                 ..12
B.   Primary Education and Educational
Research and Planning.                                      13
C. Technical Education    ..15
D. Vocational Training    ..16
E.   National College of Agriculture                .    .17
F. Management Training Institute  . .18
G.   Project Unit   .      .....................         .19
III.   COST OF THE PROJECT AND FINANCING PLAN .19
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION          .        ...                         25
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS             ..............               29
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Senegal from June 5 to June 24, 1978. The mission consisted of Messrs. A.M.
Verspoor (economist), P.H. Bussat (architect), J.C. Lair (general educator),
W.D. Cooper (technical educator), A. Magnen (agricultural educator - Unesco),
B. Duchesne (management training specialist - consultant) and A. Papineau
(architect - consultant), and Ms. M. Brathwaite (loan officer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
ANNEXES
1       Structure of the Education System, 1978
2.1     Comparative Education Indicators
2.2     Education Pyramid, 1977/78
2.3     Enrollments and Teachers, 1975/76
2.4     Primary Education - Total Enrollments by Sex and by Region
3.1     Population, Labor Force and Employment - Estimated 1976 (July)
and Projected 1981
3.2     Manpower Needs in the Agricultural Public Sector, 1977-1990
3.3     Managerial Staff Employed in Modern Sector Enterprises and
Estimated Annual Needs, 1980-1985
4.1     Cost Summary Table
4.2     Contingencies Allowances
4.3     Financing Plan by Project Component and Category
4.4     Summary of Specialist Services
4.5     Summary of Fellowships
5.1     Implementation Schedule
5.2     IDA Credit Account - Schedule of Disbursements
5.3     EEC Credit Account - Schedule of Disbursements
6       List of Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 3236 R3



GLOSSARY / GLOSSAIRE
CCCE      Caisse centrale de coopération    French Development Fund
économique
CEAO      Communauté économique de           West African Economic Community
l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CEMG      Collège d'enseignement moyen       Lover secondary school
général
CEMT      Collège d'enseignement moyen       Lover secondary technical school
technique
CEPE      Certificat d'études primaires      Primary school certificate
CFPH      Centre de formation et de per-    Hotel School
fectionnement hôtelier
CFPP      Centre de formation et de per-    Vocational Training and Upgrading
fectionnement permanent            Center
CQID      Centre de qualification indus-    Pre-employment Vocational Training
triblle                            Center
DFEM      Diplôme de fin des études           Lover secondary school diploma
moyennes
DRP       Direction de la recherche et       Department of Research and Planning
de la planification du Ministère  of the Ministry of National Education
de l'éducation nationale
DSGE      Diplôme supérieur de gestion       Master of business administration
d'entreprises                      degree
EEC       Communauté économique euro-         European Economic Community
péenne
EMP       Enseignement moyen pratique         Rural youth training program
ENSET     Ecole normale supérieure de         Technical Teacher Training College
l'enseignement technique
ENS       Ecole normale supérieure            Secondary Teacher Training College
ESGE      Ecole supérieure de gestion        Management Training Institute
des entreprises
FAC       Fonds d'aide et de coopération    French bilateral aid agency
PED       Fonds européen de développement   European Development Fund



- 2 -
INDE      Institut national de dévelop-       National College of' Agriculture
pement rural
INEADE    Institut national d'étude et        National Institute of Education
d'action pour le développe-
ment de l'éducation
ISRA      Institut sénégalais de recher-    Senegalese Agricultural Research
che agricole                        Institute
IUT       Institut universitaire de tech-   University Institute of Technology
nologie
MDE       Ministère du développement rural  Ministry of Rural ]Development
MENJ      Ministère de l'éducation natio-   Ministry of National Education
nale
MES       Ministère de l'enseignement su-   Ministry of Higher Education
périeur
OFEP      Office national de formation        National Vocational Training
professionnelle                     Office
SEPH      Secrétariat d'Etat à la promo-    Secretariat of State for Human
tion humaine                        Resource Development
Lycée technique                    Upper secondary technical school
Ministère de l'équipement          Ministry of Public Works
Ecole nationale des formations    Merchant Marine School
maritimes
Ministère du plan et de la coo-   Ministry of Plan and Cooperation
pération



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
BASIC DATA (1977)
Population                                             5.2 million
Population growth rate                                 2.7%
Per capita GNP                                         US$420
Enrollments:                              Age Group  % of Age Group  % of Girls
Primary                       345,862      7-12          32              38
Lower secondary                 62,987    12-16          10              33
Upper secondary                 12,860    17-19           3              25
University                       6,500    19-23           1.5
Literacy rate (1969)                                        10%
Central Government expenditures
on education:
as % of GDP                                               5.0
as % of total Government expenditures                    23
Recurrent cost per student (1976):
Primary (including general lower secondary)            US$  117
General secondary (upper cycle)                        US$  260
Technical secondary (lower cycle)                      US$  255
Technical secondary (upper cycle)                      US$  477
University                                             US$1,573



1



I. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
A.   Social and Economie Factors Affecting the Sector
1.01      Senegal has a land area of 197,000 km  and a population of 5.2 mil-
lion (1977 estimate), growing at 2.7% per year. The rate of urbanization is
high by African standards, with 30% of the population living in towns. Several
local languages are widely spoken and the Government has selected six of them
as national languages, but French remains the official administrative language.
1.02      The country is relatively poor, with agriculture providing the live-
lihood for more than 80% of the population. Income per worker in agriculture
is only about US$400 per year, compared with US$1,500 for unskilled labor in
the modern sector. The main economic resource is the relatively high skill
level of the people and industrial and commercial development in the coastal
areas. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar, the capital
and the largest city, with a population of about one million. Dakar's econo-
mic base consists of excellent port facilities, an industry which is gradually
turning toward exports, and a small but fast-growing tourist sector.
1.03      Economic growth, which averaged 2.3% per year between 1959 and 1974,
has not kept pace with population growth. During that period the economy had
to make adjustments, as Dakar was no longer an administrative center for
former French West Africa and the country had to cope with the 1968-73
droughts. The low growth rates have frustrated the Government's desire to
modernize Senegalese society. School enrollments are increasing only slowly,
and universal primary education is not likely to be realized before the end
of this century, and the quality of health services is deteriorating. The
Government is becoming increasingly dependent on foreign donors to finance
the bulk of its public investment programs.
1.04      To break out of the prevailing pattern of slow growth, low invest-
ments and savings, and high production costs, and also to offset the risk of
drought affecting agriculture, the Government has oriented its development
strategy toward large industrial and irrigation projects. The tentative
program for industrial development includes a number of smaller projects in
food processing, textiles, wood and paper chemicals, metalworking and con-
struction materials, as well as several large-scale industrial complexes.
B.   The Education Sector
1.05      The formal education system is modeled after the French system.
Since 1970, several major reform proposals for restructuring the education
system have been considered, but the Government has followed a course of
gradual change, mainly at the secondary level.
1.06      Primary education, given in French, is a six-year program leading
to the primary school certificate. About 20% of primary school graduates
are admitted to the lower secondary schools ("Collège d'enseignement moyen
général" or "technique" - CEMG or CEMT), which offer a four-year program
leading to a terminal diploma ("diplome de fin d'études moyennes" - DFEM).
The upper secondary schools admit DFEM holders and offer a three-year
diversified curriculum leading to the baccalaureate, which gives access to



- 2 -
higher education. The University of Dakar is the largest institution of
higher education in the country. An outline of the structure of the
education system is at Annex 1; statistical details are summarized in
Annexes 2.2 and 2.3.
Organization and Management
1.07      Responsibility for education is shared by three ministries:
(a) Ministry of National Education (MEN), responsible for general
education, technical education and vocational training up to
the secondary level (grade 12);
(b)  Secretariate of State for Human Resources Development ("Secré-
tariat d'Etat à la promotion humaine" - SEPH), attached. to the
Ministry of National Education and responsible for non-formal
education and training, including literacy, farmer training and
rural youth training centers ("Enseignement moyen pratique" -
EMP); and
(c) Ministry of Higher Education (MES), responsible for education
and training at the post-secondary level.
In addition, six other ministries are responsible for training institutions in
their own fields and several private enterprises operate their own vocational
training and upgrading centers.
1.08      Of the three education ministries, only the Ministry of National
Education has a planning and research department ("Direction de la recherche
et de la planification" - DRP). This department is responsible for all edu-
cational planning and for the preparation, implementation and evaluation of
education projects. Staff shortages and a heavy burden of routine admin-
istration have, however, prevented DRP from preparing long-range education
strategy and development plans and from evaluating projects. Project pre-
paration is done on an ad hoc basis. Two expatriate specialists provide
support in education planning and school mapping. As the DRP has never been
staffed to undertake research and curriculum development, much of- the res-
ponsibility for these activities has been taken over by other departments of
the Ministry; hence tiïis work is diffused and inadequately coordînated.
1.09      School construction was the sole responsibility of the Ministry of
Public Works ("Ministère de l'équipement"), but in 1978 a school building
section was created in the Ministry of National Education. Its maain respons-
ibility is expected to concern site selection for schools and revziew of de-
signs.  It is not yet equipped to supervise and implement large scale cons-
truction work, which will continue to be handled by the Ministry of Public
Works.
Access to Education
1.10      Since 1970 the average annual growth rate of primary szhool enroll-
ment has been about 4%, only 1.3 percentage points higher than the population



- 3 -
growth rate. By 1977, the primary schools enrolled about 346,000 children,
representing 32% of the 7-12 age group, with private schools accounting for
about 12% of the pupils. More than half of the pupils enrolled in primary
school are from Cap Vert and Casamance, where less than a third of the school
-age population live. In the urbanized Cap Vert Region, nearly 62% of the
children between 7 and 12 years of age attend school, compared with 12% in the
rural Diourbel Region of eastern Senegal (Annex 2.4). In regions with a
strong Muslim influence where many children attend the traditional Koranie
schools, primary enrollments are low. According to the 1970/71 census, 34% of
the rural population attended a Koranic school and only 3.4% an official
primary school.  Even today, many of the primary schools in the sparsely
populated rural areas are under-enrolled. Because of their high costs, some
have closed, causing an overall decline in primary schooling in the remote
rural areas in recent years. Improving access to primary education and
establishing relationships between the primary and Koranic schools constitute
a major challenge.
1.11      Access to lower secondary schools, which enrolled 63,000 pupils
(10% of the 13-16 age group) in 1977, is controlled by a selective entrance
examination. Many pupils who are not admitted voluntarily repeat grade 6
of primary school or attend a private school. The Government is experimen-
ting with non-formal rural youth training centers ("Enseignement Moyen
Pratique" - EMP) to provide primary school graduates who are not admitted to
lower secondary schools with some pre-employment skills in agriculture and
rural trades and an understanding of basic concepts in health and nutrition.
The Government has high hopes for the success of this innovation, which is
still at a highly experimental stage with many educational and administrative
problems yet to be resolved.
1.12      The Government is encouraging female participation in education,
and the enrollment of girls is gradually increasing. In 1968, 38% of the
pupils enrolled in primary school were girls; in 1977 this increased to about
40%, varying from 44% in the Dakar Region to 30% in Casamance (Annex 2.4).
Even in the remote Diourbel Region where overall enrollments are low, girls
comprise 37% of the pupils. At the secondary level, girls account for a
lower share of enrollments than in primary school: 33% of lower secondary
school and 26% of upper secondary school enrollments. Vocational training
schools enroll girls mainly for training in the traditional female occupa-
tions, mostly in the service sector.  The enrollments of girls are expected
to continue to increase at a higher rate than for boys.
Quality and Relevance
1.13      The Senegalese Governnent has always had a great concern for the
quality of education and pursues high standards for teachers at all levels.
Pending the training of qualified Senegalese teachers, large numbers of
expatriate teachers and instructors are employed at the upper secondary and
higher levels. At the primary level, an estimated 80% of students who enter
school complete four years of education. Dropout and repetition, in both
lower and upper secondary schools, are low and the overall retention rates
are about 90%. However, pass rates at the lower and upper school final
examinations are generally below 50% and many pupils leave secondary school
without a diploma.



- 4 -
1.14      All teachers at the primary level are Senegalese.  The number of
fully qualified primary teachers increased from 28% of the total in 1971
to 40% in 1975 and is expected to continue to increase gradually. Primary
school teachers are trained at five regional colleges ("Ecole normale
régionale"), which recruit students with a lower secondary schocl diploma
and offer four years of pedagogical training. About 175 students graduate
from these colleges annually, to meet the modest growth targets eor primary
education with a pupil/teacher ratio of 50:1. In-service teacher training
programs are organized very infrequently and need improvement.
1.15      The expanding demand for education, combined with severe financial
constraints, is making it difficult for the Government to maintain educational
standards. There are overcrowded classes in urban areas, shortages of quali-
fied teaching staff, especially in rural areas, and a general shortage of
school supplies and educational materials. As a consequence, the quality of
teaching suffers, particularly in primary and lower secondary schools. At
the same time, the curricula remain largely academic and oriented toward the
needs of urban life and the requirements of the entrance examination for the
next level.  Much time, particularly at the primary level, is spent teaching
French.
1.16      Upper secondary schools ("lycées") enroll about 13,000 pupils.  The
Government's efforts to encourage students to select science and technical
subjects have been successful and now approximately 50% of the 2,500 students
who graduate each year obtain diplomas with a scientific or techincal spe-
cialization, compared with 30% in 1970. The general "lycées", offering
traditional programs, _ e the preferred choice of most of the lower secondary
school graduates and atiract the best qualified students.  The :wo technical
"lycées" enroll about 1,340 students and offer courses preparing for the
technical baccalaureate wth specialization in economics, commercial skills,
industrial skills, mathematics and technology, which prepare students for
further studies as well as for direct employment. Most programs, however,
are theoretical and practical workshop instruction is insufficient because
much of the equipment is outdated and many tools and machines are broken.
Education Cost and Finance
1.17      Total recurrent expenditures of the three ministries responsible
for education amount to about US$100 million (CFAF 22.2 billion.), representing
23% of total Government recurrent expenditures and 5% of GDP, wlhich is high
but not uncommon for West African countries. Additional recurrent expendi-
tures for education are being financed by external aid, mainly Erom France, in
the form of teachers and scholarships. Expenditures for private education are
also considerable. Public education is free at all levels. The Government is
responsible for providing teaching materials and for maintaining school
buildings. At present, 40% of the recurrent education budget is spent on
primary education, mostly for teacher salaries. The average annual salary per
teacher is high for West Africa -- about US$4,000, which is about 10 times the
GNP per capita. The annual costs per pupil are likewise high: about US$118
for primary education and US$480 for upper secondary technical schools. Of
the total expenditures for education, only 10% is allocated for supplies an.
minor building maintenance; hence many school buildings and much of the
equipment is in poor repair.



1.18      To finance its investment budget, the Ministry of National Education
expects to attract considerable foreign aid. The total investment cost for
education projects included in the-Fifth Plan (1977-1981) is US$97 million
(CFAF 23 bilion), of which 80% is expected to be provided by foreign donors.
French and Canadian bilateral assistance, the EEC and IDA have been important
sources of financial and technical assistance.
C.   Manpower and Employment
1.19      In 1976, Senegal's working population numbered about 1.7 million,
mostly working in rural areas and engaged in farming. About 140,000 workers,
or 8% of the active population, are employed in the modern sector; of these,
about 80,000 are employed in the private sector, about 15,000 in parastatal
organizations, and about 45,000 in the civil service.  About 200,000 persons
work in the informal sector, mainly as artisans and petty traders (Annex 3.1).
Nearly 60% of the workers in the modern private sector are unskilled or semi-
skilled.  The modern sector is expected to provide about 13,000 new jobs
annually over the period 1977-1982; during the same period, 28,000 students
with at least a primary school certificate will enter the labor market every
year.
1.20      The large number of educated Senegalese entering the labor market
every year is leading to a general improvement in the educational level of
workers, particularly among those joining the informal sector, but there are
serious imbalances between supply and demand for specific skills. At all
levels, graduates, particularly those with arts degrees, may have to adjust
their employment expectations as work opportunities become more restricted and
employers can be more selective than in the past. There are, however, serious
shortages of lower- and middle-level personnel with either basic technical
skills or some training in bookkeeping, storekeeping and other clerical
skills. An important reason for these shortages is the paucity of vocational
training facilities, particularly for skilled worker training for the modern
industrial sector. There is one vocational training and upgrading center
("Centre de formation et de perfectionnement permanent" - CFPP), which with
support from IDA's Second Education Project started this type of training
programs in 1977, and one pre-employment vocational training center ("Centre
de qualification industrielle" - CQID) with specialized programs in industrial
trades.
1.21      With the Government's investments in agricultural development
projects, the demand for agricultural technicians is expected to increase
significantly. This demand is being met at the lower and middle levels by
Senegal's agricultural technician schools. At the university level, however,
no training programs are available in Senegal and, to date, Senegalese agri-
culturalists have been trained mainly at Western European, North American and
Soviet universities, where training programs are not oriented to Senegal's
needs. The average annual demand over the 1980-1990 period is estimated at
40 (Annex 3.2).
1.22      Perhaps the most serious human resources constraint to Senegal's
development efforts is the lack of trained and experienced Senegalese mana-
gerial and supervisory personnel. The Government's major concerns in this



-6-
respect are (a) improving the performance of Senegalese managers in key posi-
tions in the parapublie sector, and (b) training qualified Senegalese managers
to take over managerial positions held by expatriates. Large numbers of the
2,000 middle- and high-level managers presently employed could be upgraded;
in addition, the present annual need for new managerial staff i, estimated at
about 100, for whom no adequate management training programs are available in
Senegal (Annex 3.3).
D.   The Government's Educational Objectives
1.23      The Governnent's policy for the education sector has four major
objectives. First, the Government wants to expand primary education in
rural areas. Second, the Government wants to satisfy at least part of the
social demand for places at the post-primary level. Third, there is a firm
determination to make the education system more responsive to tlie specialized
manpower requirements of the modern sector. Finally, the Government wishes
to strengthen its educational research and planning capacity. 'These objectives
are sound, but the Government is becoming increasingly aware that the feasibil-
ity of achieving them will depend largely on the extent to which recurrent
costs can be reduced. Profound changes in teaching methods and school organ-
ization will be required, possibly including multiple-grade teaching, a shift
system or biannual admissions, if the cost per pupil is to be reduced signif-
icantly. There are indications that the Government is willing to consider the
introduction of some of these measures, but their preparation w:ill require
considerable time.
Primary Education
1.24      The Government established universal primary education as a long-
term objective, but has been forced to control expansion, and to close some
schools with low enrollments, because of financial constraints. The Fifth
Development Plan (1977-1981) proposes an enrollment growth of 3%, per year for
primary education, thereby stabilizing the enrollment ratio at current levels.
Even if the annual growth rate were to be maintained at the present 4%,
primary education would be available to only about 50% of the school-age
children by the year 2000.  The Department of Research and Planning (DRP) of
the Ministry of Education is currently carrying out a number of studies,
exploring ways to increase primary enrollment ratios significantly by intensify-
ing the use of existing teachers and buildings, increasing community involvement
in education, and adapting the system to local conditions.
1.25      Establishing closer relations between the school programs and the
students' home environment is an important element of the Government's plans
for improving the quality of education. This would be done by introducing
instruction in the national languages during the first year of primary school.
French would be taught only as a second language in these grades, but would
remain the language of instruction in the higher grades.  Experi'mental
classes in Wolof, the main national language, started in October 1978 and it
is expected that between 1978 and 1982 two other national languages, Pular and
Serer, will be included in the experiment. A key hypothesis to be tested is
that teaching children basic skills in their mother tongue, before introduc' -g
a foreign language of instruction, has a positive impact on student achieve-
ment. Therefore, important scientific research objectives of the experimenta7



program are to (a) measure the impact of new programs on student achievement
throughout the primary schools, and (b) assess the implications for the teach-
ing of French in the higher grades. Basic linguistic studies are completed
for Wolof and are underway for Pular and Serer. Due to a lack of qualified
staff, no systematic preparation of teaching programs and tests has been
undertaken.
1.26      Successful implementation of the Government's education strategy
at the primary level will depend to a large extent on the quality of the
teaching staff in the primary schools. The Government is reorganizing
pre-service and in-service teacher training and upgrading programs to obtain
the desired improvements in the quality of teaching in primary schools (para.
1.13). An important aspect of the reorganization is the regionalization of
the four male teacher training colleges, intended to train teachers in their
own region, adapt programs to regional needs, and prepare for the introduction
of national languages on a regional basis. The regionalization is, however,
incomplete and the college that trains teachers for the Casamance and Senegal-
Oriental Regions is located in Thies and housed in dilapidated army barracks.
Secondary Education
1.27      The Government's aim to make the education system more responsive
to the manpower requirements of the modern sector places a strong emphasis on
technical education at the secondary level. In the lower secondary schools,
the Government is stepping up the teaching of mathematics, science and tech-
nology; this is expected to facilitate recruitment for the science sections
of the upper secondary schools. The planned increase in enrollments in the
general upper secondary schools is about 5% annually over the period 1975-
1980, but enrollments in the upper secondary technical schools would increase
over that period by about 13% per year. To reach this target, the Government
is planning to open an upper secondary technical school in each of four
regional capitals; it has already obtained FED financing for the construction
and equipping of two of these schools. The Government is aware of the prob-
lems secondary technical education faces (para. 1.16) and intends to establish
employment-oriented technician training programs, review and update the con-
tent of technical programs, and improve the quality of the practical instruc-
tion by equipping workshops in two existing upper secondary schools. To
support the expansion and improvement of technical education at the secondary
level without undue reliance on expatriate technical assistance teachers, the
Government intends to establish a Technical Teacher Training College ("Ecole
normale supérieure de l'enseignement technique" - ENSET), which would train
60 teachers per year to teach technology at the lower secondary level and
industrial and commercial subjects at the upper secondary level. In addition,
there is a need to train technically skilled Senegalese to be instructors of
vocational training centers, which are now predominantly staffed by expatriate
teachers.
Specialized Manpower Training
1.28      To train skilled workers for modern industry (para. 1.20), the
Government intends to strengthen the Vocational Training and Upgrading Center
(CFPP) by increasing the number of technical upgrading courses and adding
three-year pre-employment courses in major industrial trades. The adjacent



pre-employment vocational training center ("Centre de qualification indus-
trielle" - CQID) would be integrated with the CFPP. The enlarged CFPP would
become a pilot center for training, upgrading and retraining workers in the
modern and informal sectors; an additional 500 workers would be trained or
upgraded annually. It would also form the nucleus of a proposec[ National
Vocational Training Office ("Office national de formation professionnelle" -
ONFP) that would coordinate vocational training country wide, using the CFPP
as its base of operations.
1.29      To meet the high-level manpower needs of the modern iiidustrial and
agricultural sectors, the Government plans to:
(a) establish university-level training programs for agricul-
turalists (para. 1.21), starting in October 1978 in temporary
facilities at the Faculty of Science of the University of
Dakar, as a first step toward the creation of a National
College of Agriculture ("Institut national de développement
rural" - INDR);
(b)  create a Management Training Institute ("Ecole supérieure
de gestion des entreprises" - ESGE) to increase the nimber
of qualified modern sector managers (para. 1.22).
Research and Planning
1.30      The Government realizes that to bring its aims for edîcation to
fruition will require 6 considerable research and planning capacity.  It
intends to strengthen tle educational planning section of the DRP (paras.
1.08 and 1.24) and creat) a National Institute of Education ("Institut national
d'études et d'actions pour le développement de l'éducation" - INEADE) where
all ongoing educational research, evaluation and curriculum development work
would be concentrated. One cf INEADE's main responsibilities would be the
preparation and monitoring of the national language experiment, particularly
the preparation of educational materials for the pilot classes and related
teacher-upgrading programs, as well as the preparation of test materials.
E.   The Bank Group's Role and Strategy
1.31      In support1ng the Government's education and training programs, the
Bank Group has followed two approaches: (a) lending for the development of
important sub-sectors of the education system, and (b) lending for project-
related training. Consistent with this approach, the Bank in addition to
providing two IDA credits (Cr. 253-SE for US$2.0 million and Cr. 530-SE for
US$15.0 million) for education projects, has also provided assistance for
training in three agricultural projects (Loan 1113 and Credits 549, 633,
647 - US$840,000), three highway projects (Cr. 366 and Loans 1221, 1222 -
US$720,000), two railway projects (Loans 835, 1518 - US$2.2 million), a
telecommunications project (Loan 866 - US$175,000) and a parapublie sector
technical assistance project (Cr. 764 - US$1.25 million).



1.32      The Bank's lending strategy for education and training in Senegal
has focused on three main areas of Governnent concern:
(a)  Expansion of educational opportunities for children in rural
areas, by establishing rural youth training centers and
supporting studies preparing the expansion of primary
education;
(b)  Diversification of secondary education, by improving oppor-
tunities for practical training in upper secondary technical
schools and providing facilities for science and technology
teaching in lower secondary schools;
(c)  Training of qualified technicians for the modern sector, by
improving vocational training and upgrading centers, improving
and expanding post-secondary technician training programs,
and providing training opportunities for staff in agriculture,
highways, railways and telecommunications and for managerial
staff in the para-public sector.
These objectives have been pivotal in the dialogue with the Government since
the beginning of the Bank's involvement in the sector, and the proposed third
project would provide continuing support for government policies in these
areas.
1.33      The First Education Project (Cr. 253-SE,-signed on June 18, 1971)
provided $2.0 million to improve the quality of technical and agricultural
education and to expand the supply of technicians for industry and commerce.
The main component was constructing and equipping a post-secondary technician
training institute, the University Institute of Technology ("Institut univer-
sitaire de technologie" - IUT). The project also financed a reorganization
study for the Merchant Marine School, the upgrading of an agricultural tech-
nician school, and complementary equipment for two upper secondary technical
schools. The Second Education Project (Cr. 530-SE, signed on February 19,
1975) provided $15.0 million to assist Senegal in meeting its modern sector
manpower needs through (a) the construction and equipping of science and
technology teaching facilities for 11 lower secondary schools and four new
lower secondary schools, and (b) the rehabilitation or provision of new
vocational training centers for industry, fishing and hotel/tourism. The
project also supports the experimental first phase of a national program to
establish a network of low-cost rural youth training centers (EMP), the
strengthening of educational planning services, and a preinvestment study of
alternatives to primary education.
1.34      The First Education Project is completed and the credit account was
closed on March 31, 1978. The main project-assisted institution, the IUT, is
providing training programs of high quality and is satisfactorily serving the
needs of modern sector employers. The IUT is a well-managed institution, but
its operating costs are high, mainly due to a high (6:1) student/teacher
ratio; moreover, the majority of the instructional staff are expatriates
while local teachers are being trained. Improvements in the facilities and



- 10 -
equipment of the upper secondary technical school were small and have had
little impact on the supply of technical school graduates, and a workshop for
which construction was financed under the project has not yet been properly
equipped due to lack of Government resources. The training center for agri-
cultural technicians supported by the project is not used at full capacity
and Government is reviewing its training programs at this level to use exist-
ing facilities more efficiently (para. 1.21). The project also financed a
reorganization study for Senegal's Merchant Marine School, but the provision
of equipment for the reorganized school was postponed until the second proj-
ect. The most important problem during implementation concerned differences
between Government and IDA about the appropriate design standards.
1.35      Progress of implementation of the Second Education Project has been
slow and is now about 30 months behind schedule, due to design and contract
award delays. Construction work on the eight remaining science and technology
centers and the lower secondary schools is expected to be completed by August
1979, but delays have occurred in the invitation of tenders for equipment and
furniture. The Vocational Training and Upgrading Center (CFPP) is operating
and supports on-the-job training in factories and industrial plants and
specialized center-based training for skilled workers. About 1,000 workers
have participated in the CFPP's training and upgrading courses and the center
is responding satisfactorily to employers' demands. Equipment for the Merchant
Marine School has been delivered and construction is underway.
1.36      Substantial problems have occurred with respect to the Hotel School
("Centre de formation et de perfectionnement hoôtelier" - CFPH) and the rural
youth training centers. The total cost of these components is e!stimated at
US$5.0 million, or 25% of the total project cost. Design work for the CFPH
was delayed by about 36 months following internal administrative difficulties
concerning the appointment of the architect. The non-formal rural education
component (para. 1.11) is innovative and difficult to implement. Selection of
the sites for the village centers is slow, preparation of the building designs
using local materials took a long time, and insufficient attention is being
paid to program development and training of instructors. Consicerable efforts
are now being made to prepare detailed plans to establish the first 15 centers
before December 1981, including measures for staff training and preparation of
curricula. The objectives of the preinvestment study have been redefined to
include the extension of primary education in rural areas; the related studies
are expected to be undertaken soon by the Ministry of National Education
Planning Unit, with the support of specialists financed under the proposed
third education project.
1.37      The implementation delays, combined with a decline of about 10%
in the value of the US dollar since Credit 530-SE was signed, have led to a
financing gap of about US$6.0 million. As a consequence the Government has
decided not to construct three of the science and technology centers, to
reduce from 30 to 15 the number of rural youth training centers (EMP) to be
constructed, and to seek another external source of financing for the Hotel
School. Implementation has recently accelerated considerably and about 40%
of the credit proceeds have been disbursed.



- il -
1.38      The first project created a Project Unit which was established with-
in the Ministry of Public Works. The Project Unit is well managed and effi-
cient. Delays in implementation of the first and second education projects
have to a large extent been caused by delays at the design stage and by
administrative difficulties attributable to Senegal's cumbersome financial
and procurement procedures.
1.39      Experience during the preparation of three education projects and
the implementation of the first two projects underlines the important bene-
fits of a frank dialogue with the Government on key sector issues. While
differences of views between the Governnent and Bank staff on education
strategies and projects have occurred in the past, the Government has always
been willing to consider the Bank's suggestions.  In the early contacts the
Bank may have underestimated constraints on the Government's ability to bring
about major education reforms and not sufficiently realized that changes in
education take a long time to mature. The Bank's and the Government's views
have now converged, and a strategy has been adopted aiming at gradual change
supported by successive projects. Moreover, the need to advance all project
preparation, particularly architectural design work, prior to finalizing
lending arrangements has become clear, as both previous education projects
suffered from delays at the design stage and also at the bid award stage in
the case of the second project. For the third project, agreements have been
pursued throughout project preparation on design standards and on measures
to reduce delays that could be caused by cumbersome administrative procedures.
Being aware of the past implementation difficulties, the Government is taking
the preparation of this project to a more advanced stage than was done in the
previous projects and also intends to strengthen the Project Unit and improve
procedures for monitoring the progress of project implementation.
1.40      The third education project would emphasize institution building and
improvements in the quality and relevance of education and training programs.
The principal objectives of the project are to:
(a)  establish a solid base for the expansion of primary education
by strengthening the educational research and planning capacity
with a view to the implementation of policy measures aiming at
reducing the cost of education, especially at the primary level;
(b)  improve the quality of primary school programs by improving in-
service and pre-service primary teacher training and by testing
the effects of instruction in national languages in the lower
primary grades;
(c)  expand and improve the quality of training programs for teachers
of technical subjects in lower and upper secondary schools and
vocational training schools;
(d)  expand and improve vocational training facilities for skilled
workers in the modern sector;



- 12 -
(e)  provide university-level training for agronomists; and
(f) provide training programs for middle- and high-level
managers of private and parapublic enterprises.
1.41      The project objectives to increase the supply of qualified high-
and middle-level technicians and managers for the modern sector, to improve
and expand secondary technical education, and to increase access to primary
education in rural areas reflect the Government's development priorities. The
expansion of primary education in rural areas will be a slow process requiring
major, sometimes painful, policy decisions aiming to reduce the cost per
student (para. 1.24).  Hence, in the longer term a high priority in Bank
assistance should be continued support to the Government for preparing and
implementing at the primary level changes in the structure of the system, the
curricula and the teaching methods. The proposed project would assist the
Government in taking a first step in this direction.
1.42      The Bank has in the past collaborated with international and bila-
teral organizations with respect to education and training in Senegal. This
is expected to continue during the third education project. The collaboration
with UNDP with regard to the CFPP will continue; the French Government's
technical assistance agency (FAC) has financed the preinvestment studies for
the National College of Agriculture, which is expected to be co-financed with
the French "Caisse centrale de coopération économique" (CCCE); and the Govern-
ment intends to request bilateral assistance from France and Belgium for the
instructional staff for project-assisted institutions.
II. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Summary
2.01      The project would be implemented between 1979 and 1984, and would
comprise the following components:
(a) Primary education and educational research and planning
(i)  equipment and specialist services for studies to
develop vocabularies and to prepare and evaluate
experimental programs for testing the use of
national languages in the lower primary grades;
(ii)  construction, equipment and furniture for a primary
teacher training college of about 240 student places,
and specialist services and fellowships to improve
in-service and pre-service teacher training programs;
(iii)  furniture, equipment, specialist services and fellow-
ships for a National Institute of Education, where
education research and evaluation activities would be
concentrated; and



- 13 -
(iv) specialist services and fellowships for the Ministry
of Education to plan for the expansion of primary
education in rural areas and to prepare projects for
external financing.
(b) Technical education
(i) Construction, equipment, furniture and specialist
services for a technical teacher training college of
about 180 student places, and for expanding teaching
facilities at IUT for an additional 160 students to
train teachers of technical subjects for secondary
schools and vocational training schools; and
(ii) provision of workshop equipment for two existing
upper secondary technical schools to improve prac-
tical training.
(c)  Vocational training
Construction, equipment and furniture for the Vocational
Training and Upgrading Center and the adjoining center for
pre-employment vocational training to improve the physical
facilities, and technical assistance and fellowships to
develop and improve training programs and undertake studies
leading to the establishment of a national training office
which would coordinate vocational training country wide.
(d)  Agricultural education
Construction, equipment, furniture, specialist services and
fellowships for a National College of Agriculture of about
200 student places that would provide university-level training
for agriculture.
(e)  Management training
Construction, equipment, furniture, specialist services and
fellowships for a management training institute of about 180
places to provide master level programs and upgrading courses
in business administration for the managerial staff of modern
sector enterprises.
(f)  Project administration
Specialist services, equipment and operating cost for the
existing Project Unit.
B.   Primary Education and Educational Research and Planning
2.02      Introduction of national languages.  To assist the Government in
completing the linguistic preparation of the new curricula in Wolof, Pular
and Serer for the experimental classes (para. 1.25), the project would



- 14 -
finance contracts for studies and surveys for the preparation of a basic Pular
vocabulary and scientific vocabularies of the Wolof and Pular languages. To
assist with the pedagogical preparation of these curricula, a team consisting
of a language education specialist and nine Senegalese teachers would be
created. This team would prepare teaching programs, determine! teaching
methods, prepare and test teaching aids, establish evaluation procedures,
prepare teacher training programs and familiarize teachers participating in
the experiment with the new programs and materials in each of the three
languages that would be introduced during the project implemerLtation period.
The team would work in the proposed National Institute of Education (INEADE)
(para. 1.30) and the project would finance (a) 30 man-years of specialist
services for the language education team during a 3-year pericid; (b) office
equipment and furniture for this team; (c) equipment, teaching materials and
fellowships to organize training seminars on the new local language curricula
for a total of 360 teachers, over a three-year period; and (d) three man-months
of specialist services to help design monitoring and evaluaticin procedures to
determine the effects of the teaching in the local languages.
2.03      Primary teacher training.  In support of the Governrnent's objective
to establish teacher training in each region and improve the quality of pre-
service and in-service training programs (para. 1.26), the project would
finance (a) construction, furniture and equipment for a Primary Teacher Train-
ing College of 240 places at Kolda in the Casamance Region to replace the
college of Thies (para. 1.26); (b) four man-years of specialist services for
a primary education and teacher training specialist who would be based in the
INEADE (para. 1.30) to assist the Ministry of Education in improving in-ser-
vice and pre-service teC her training programs, reviewing primary education
curricula, and studying possibilities for introducing cost-saving measures
(para. 1.24) such as double shifting, a multiple-grade teaching and shortening
of the teacher training cocrses; (c) a 12 man-month fellowship to upgrade a
local specialist in primary education and teacher training; arnd (d) equipment
(including a vehicle), teaching materials and fellowships for seminars to
upgrade 1,200 headmasters and teachers over a four-year period.
2.04      Educational research.  To assist the Governrment in creating INEADE
(para. 1.30), the project would finance (a) a specialist in ecLucational
research and evaluation to act as the Director of the Institute for three
years, who would coordinate and supervise its research and evaluation work
and train a local counterpart; (b) a 12 man-month fellowship in educational
research and evaluation for the Director's counterpart; and (c:) furniture and
equipment for the Institute's offices. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that it will (a) issue the decree establishing
the Institute by November 1, 1979, with an internal organization and responsi-
bllities acceptable to IDA; (b) regroup existing research activities of the
Ministry of National Education under INEADE's responsibility; (c) transfer
existing research staff to INEADE; and (d) provide INEADE with an adequate
recurrent budget. The Government also confirmed during negotiations its
commitment to provide adequate office space for the Institute by November 1,
1979, including offices for the national language team (para. 2.02). The
Institute would be attached to the Ministry of National Education and
would be the Government's principal agency to undertake research and pilot



- 15 -
and evaluation studies and to assist the administrative departments in imple-
menting new programs and teaching techniques. The Institute would be respon-
sible for supervision of the following studies, for which five man-months of
specialist services would be financed under the project:
(a)  an evaluation of the impact on student achievement of the
science and technology centers financed under the Second
Education Project (Cr. 530-SE); and
(b)  a survey of education in Arabic and the role of Koranic
schools, to determine what role these schools could be
given in the plans to increase access to education.
2.05      Planning.  In support of the Government's objective to implement
cost-reducing measures (para. 1.23) and expand primary education, especially
in rural areas (para. 1.24), the project would finance (a) 33 man-months of
specialist services to allow the planning and school mapping specialists to
continue their work and train Senegalese staff (paras. 1.08 and 1.32); (b)
three man-months of specialist services to analyze education cost and financing
arrangements and prepare recommendations on the efficient use of available
budgetary resources; (c) 24 man-months of fellowships for training Senegalese
staff in educational planning and statistics; and (d) furniture and office
equipment for new DRP offices. During negotiations, assurances were given by
the Government that the study on education cost and financing arrangements
will be reviewed with IDA before October 1981. The project would also
finance educational and architectural consultant services totalling US$200,000
for the preparation of education projects suitable for external financing,
especially in the field of primary education (para. 1.36).
C.   Technical Education
2.06      Technical teacher training.  The project would finance construction,
equipment and furniture for general education, administrative, boarding and
limited laboratory and workshop facilities for a Technical Teacher Training
College ("Ecole Normale Supérieure d'Enseignement Technique" - ENSET) (para.
1.27). The College would have a capacity of about 180 students and be located
in Dakar, next to the University Institute of Technology (IUT) where an addi-
tional 160 students, enrolled at ENSET, would receive basic technical training.
The project would finance construction, equipment and furniture for an exten-
sion of the IUT to provide these students with laboratories, workshops and
classrooms.
2.07      ENSET would provide professional training in education, psychology,
methodology and applied pedagogy and also limited skills upgrading. The basic
industrial or commercial skills training would take place at other institu-
tions, specifically designed and equipped for this purpose, particularly at
the IUT. The ENSET program for secondary technical teachers would comprise
three basic parts: (a) a one-year common program for all ENSET students, (b)
a two- or three-year program of technical or commercial skills training con-
ducted at IUT, and (c) a one-year program of applied pedagogy conducted at
ENSET. Practical work would be emphasized throughout the training period.



- 16 -
Technical skills training programs would contain from 30% to 50% workshop or
laboratory practice. Applied pedagogical training would take place both in
the teaching laboratories and the technical workshops. A joint pedagogical
committee would ensure cooperation between ENSET and IUT, whizh would be
formalized in a decree. ENSET students at IUT would be under the latter's
full pedagogical and administrative control. Students would be generally
recruited at the baccalaureate level, but the entrance requirements would
allow the admission of persons with suitable technical qualifications acquired
at other institutions. Qualified instructors are expected to be provided
through French bilateral assistance. Senegalese staff are expected to be
available in the long term after ENSET-trained secondary technical teachers
have gained experience and received the necessary upgrading. The Governnent
gave assurances during negotiations that ENSET will be established by November
1, 1979, with a teaching program structure and study organization acceptable
to IDA.
2.08      The project would finance two technical education and teacher train-
ing specialists, for three years each. One of these specialists ("directeur
des études") would act as an assistant to the Senegalese Director of ENSET
and would be in charge of the preparation of its teaching programs. The other
specialist ("chef de travaux") would be responsible for development of pro-
grams of practical instruction of ENSET students. Both specialists would
provide assistance to the Technical Education Department of the Ministry of
National Education for the revision of secondary school technical curricula
(para. 1.27).
2.09      Upper secondary technical education.  The project would finance
equipment for eight workshops in the upper secondary technical school in
Dakar ("Lycée Delafosse") and six workshops in the upper secondary technical
school in St. Louis ("Lycée Peytavin"). The equipment would replace outdated
and broken equipment in the mechanical, electrotechnical, automotive, metal-
work and engineering workshops of these schools (para. 1.16) and follow up
the assistance provided under the first project (para. 1.34).
D.   Vocational Training
2.10      Upgrading.  The project would finance equipment that would allow
the Vocational Training and Upgrading Center (CFPP) (paras. 1.20 and 1.28) to
offer a full range of industrial upgrading courses in building construction,
general mechanics, auto and diesel mechanics, electricity, refrigeration,
air-conditioning and metal construction. The project would also finance 13
man-years of specialist services for four specialists in technical education
and consultant services over the 1979-1981 period to ensure the development of
in-plant and center-based industrial training programs, and 5 man-years of
fellowships to provide pedagogical training to local instructional staff.
The specialists would pay particular attention to the development of training
programs in participating industries and would train industry'-based staff in
conducting in-service training and upgrading programs.
2.11      Basic training.  The project would finance the purchase of addi-
tional equipment and improvements to the workshop buildings cf the existing
industrial training center (CQID) (para. 1.28) that would allow an increase Ln
its enrollment from 140 to about 200 and improve the quality of its vocational



- 17 -
training programs in general mechanics, building construction, electricity
and metal fabrication. Cooperation with the CFPP, located nearby, would be
strengthened and formalized so that the two centers would have the combined
capability to provide both pre-employment vocational training programs and
specific skills upgrading courses in a variety of technical specialties.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that
not later than June 30, 1982, the CQID will be integrated with the CFPP to
form an integrated industrial training and upgrading center operating under
a single management structure and an independent statute acceptable to IDA.
The specialist instructional staff attached to the CFPP (para. 2.10) would
assist the CQID staff with the revision of program content and would provide
them with on-the-job training.
2.12      National Vocational Training Office (ONFP).  The project would
finance 18 man-months of specialist services, with expertise in the legis-
lation, organization, financing and labor relations of industrial training,
to help the Government establish the proposed National Vocational Training
Office (para. 1.28). These specialists would work in close consultation with
the vocational training staff of the CFPP (para. 2.10), since much of the
vocational training and skills upgrading organized by the ONFP are expected
to take place in the CFPP or CQID.
E.   National College of Agriculture (INDR)
2.13      The project would finance construction, furniture and equipment
for a National College of Agriculture (para. 1.29). The College would have
a capacity of 200 students, with an annual output of 40 graduates, and be
located in Thies, about 40 km from Dakar. Students would be recruited at the
baccalaureate level for a five-year program -- a first preparatory year at
the Department of Science of the University of Dakar, followed by four years
at the INDR. The first two years would be used to strengthen the students'
science background and provide basic training in agriculture. Main special-
izations would be offered from the third year onward in general agronomy,
animal production and agricultural engineering. Optional courses would also
be available in forestry, horticulture and agro-industrial sciences. The
training program would be practical and oriented toward the needs of the rural
development agencies, which would employ many of the graduates. This prac-
tical orientation of the program would be reinforced by supervised field
training periods.
2.14      INDR would be established as an "etablissement public" under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Higher Education (MES). Its statutes would
provide for (a) close links with the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR), the
rural development agencies and the Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute
(ISRA) by ensuring their representation on INDR's Board and pedagogical
council, and (b) a revolving fund for the INDR to finance urgent or relatively
small expenditures. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that
the INDR wili be established by November 1, 1979, with a legal status, arrange-
ments for sound financial management, and a teaching program structure accept-
able to IDA.
2.15      The project would finance (a) 20 man-years of technical assistance
for five specialists in university-level agricultural education to help the
Government to start up the College and establish departments of general



- 18 -
and animal sciences; and (b) 12 man-months of consultant services for program
elaboration. For coordination of the activities related to the starting up
of the College and the development of teaching programs, the Gcvernment
intends to recruit as soon as possible two senior agriculturalists, who
would be appointed as director or deputy director and as program director
("directeur d'études") until suitably qualified Senegalese staff become
available. The Government would approach bilateral agencies tco fill other
initial teaching posts and to provide assistance after completion of the
project. The Governments of France and Belgium have expressed an interest
in providing technical assistance to INDR.  The project would clso finance 18
man-years of fellowships to train Senegalese staff for INDR, irLcluding for the
post of director. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that
candidates for the posts of director, deputy director and program director
will have qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to IDA,
and will be appointed before September 1, 1979.
F.   Management Training Institute (ESGE)
2.16      The project would finance construction, equipment and furniture for
a Management Training Institute located in Dakar (para. 1.29(b`)). The Insti-
tute would provide training in modern business management techniques, leading
to a Master of Business Administration Degree ("Diplome supérieur de gestion
d'entreprises" - DSGE), for holders of at least a first-level university
degree with a minimum of three years of business or management experience.
It would also organize upgrading courses and seminars for midd:e- and high-
level managers employed in parapublic and private enterprises. A fee would
be charged for participation in these courses and seminars, and it is expected
that after a start-up period the upgrading courses and seminars would be
self-supporting. The Institute would also establish a management consulting
department, which would undertake organization and management studies and
analyses for private and parapublic sector enterprises in Senegal and neigh-
boring countries. The ESGE would be established as an "établissement public"
under the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Higher Education. Its
statutes would provide for (a) representation of private and parapublic sector
employers on ESGE's Board and pedagogical council, and (b) a revolving fund to
finance urgent or relatively small expenditures. During negot:iations the
Government gave assurances that the ESGE will be established bv November 1,
1979 with a legal status, arrangements for sound financial management and a
teaching program structure acceptable to IDA.
2.17      ESGE could become a regional management training institute for the
member countries of the West African Economic Community (CEAO). During
negotiations the Government gave assurances that ESGE will become the nucleus
of a regional management training institute should the creation of such an
institute in Dakar be decided. To avoid duplication of effort, the ESGE would
be expected to coordinate its middle-level training and upgrading programs
with the IUT, and each institute should concentrate on its specific area of
responsibility: the IUT specifically on the more technical sk:Llls such as
bookkeeping and accounting, and the ESGE on following up with programs in
general management techniques, personnel administration and financial analysis.



- 19 -
2.18      The project would finance 13 man-years of specialist services for
a director or program director (four years) and three department heads (seven
years) and two man-years of consultant services to start up ESGE and to
elaborate detailed training programs. Six man-months of these consultant
services would be used to study specific Senegalese personnel management
issues, so that teaching programs in personnel management and administration
could be closely related to local conditions. The project would also finance
part of the salary costs of qualified Senegalese staff, during the first 20
months of the start-up period.  During negotiations the Government gave
assurances that candidates for the posts of director and program director will
have qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA and will be appointed
before December 31, 1980.  The Government is seeking French bilateral assistance
to provide additional technical assistance personnel for the teaching staff.
The project would also finance eight man-years of fellowships to prepare
qualified Senegalese for teaching positions at ESGE.
G.   Project Unit
2.19      The Project Unit staff presently consists of a part-time Project
Director who is also the Director of Public Works, an expatriate building
engineer (serving as full-time Deputy Director), an accountant, a site super-
visor, three secretaries, and support staff. The project would finance
48 man-years of specialist services, 41 of which would be used to recruit
local personnel for site supervision, equipment procurement, and accounting
and secretarial assistance. As qualified Senegalese are unlikely to be
available, it is expected that an expatriate will continue to hold the
position of Deputy Project Director (four man-years), and a new equipment
procurement specialist (three man-years) will also be an expatriate. The
equipment procurement specialist is expected to be appointed by the time of
negotiations. The project would also finance some additional equipment and
furniture for the Project Unit and its operating expenses.
III. THE COST OF THE PROJECT AND FINANCING PLAN
Cost of the Project
3.01      The net-of-tax cost of the project is estimated at US$33.1 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$20.9 million. The breakdown of cost
by project component is detailed in Annex 4.1 and summarized below.



- 20 -
% of
Project Item             CFAF million                   US$ million          Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign   Total    Cost
Primary education,
educ. research &
planning              616      682   1,298    2.8        3.1       5.9     23.2
Technical education    550       770   1,320    2.5        3.5       6.0      23.6
Vocational training       44     506      550    0.2       2.3       2.5      10.0
National College of
Agriculture           572      946   1,518    2.6        4.3       6.9      27.1
Management Training
Institute             176      484      660    0.8       2.2       3.0     11.8
Project management        88     154      242    0.4       0.7       1.1       4.3
Base cost             2,046   3,542   5,588    9.3        16.1      25.4    100.0
Physical contin-
gencies (7%)          176      198      374    0.8       0.9       1.7
Expected price
escalation (22%)      462      858   1,320    2.1        3.9       6.0
Total contingencies    638   1,056   1,694    2.9          4.8       7.7
Total project cost   2,684   4,598   7,282   12.2         20.9      33.1



- 21 -
3.02      Estimated costs by category of expenditure are shown below.
% of
Category                    CFAF million                 US$ million            Base
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total    Cost
Civil works:
Construction        1,254       682    1,936    5.7        3.1       8.8     34.6
Site developmemt      286       154       440    1.3       0.7       2.0      7.9
Sub-total           1,540       836    2,376    7.0        3.8      10.8     42.5
Architects' fees          66      154       220    0.3       0.7       1.0       3.9
Furniture                88       132       220    0.4       0.6       1.0       3.9
Equipment                  -    1,012    1,012      -        4.6       4.6      18.1
Specialist services:
Instructors           110    1,034    1,144    0.5         4.7       5.2     20.5
Research and
planning             88       176       264    0.4       0.8       1.2      4.7
Project management   110         88       198    0.5       0.4       0.9      3.5
Sub-total           308    1,298    1,606    1.4         5.9      7.3      28.7
Fellowships              44       110       154    0.2       0.5       0.7       2.9
Base cost             2,046    3,542    5,588    9.3        16.1      25.4    100.0
Physical contin-
gencies (7%)          176       198       374    0.8       0.9       1.7
Expected price
escalation (22%)      462       858    1,320    2.1        3.9       6.0
Total contingencies    638    1,056    1,694    2.9          4.8       7.7
Total project cost   2,684    4,598    7,282   12.2         20.9      33.1
3.03      The cost estimates for civil works are for February 1979 and are
based on unit costs derived from construction contracts awarded in Senegal
during 1977 and 1978. The estimated average cost of construction is US$414
per square meter, which is high compared with costs in neighboring countries
like Mali (US$350) and Ivory Coast (US$370). An important reason for the
high construction costs is the delays in payment due contractors, caused by
the Government's shortage of funds and lengthy administrative procedures.
The financial cost of these delays probably accounts for 10% to 15% of the
contract costs. The average cost of expatriate specialists, based on recent



- 22 -
recruitment experiences of international organizations and the Government, is
estimated at US$7,100 per man-month, including travel and housing, of which
about US$3,000 is estimated to be for salaries.
3.04      The project includes contingency allowances for unforeseen physical
conditions equal to 10% of the base cost for civil works, furniture and equip-
ment (Annex 4.2). The overall allowance for price escalation is about 22% of
base cost plus physical contingencies, and is estimated on the basis of the
following average annual increase in the prices of both local and foreign
goods:
1979            1980-1984
Civil works and professional fees             7.5%                7%
Furniture and equipment                       6.5%                6%
Specialist services and fellowships           8.0%                8%
3.05      The estimated foreign exchange of US$20.9 million r,spresents about
63% of the total project cost of US$33.1 million.  This has besen calculated
as follows: civil works, 35%; professional fees, 73%; furniture, 60%; equip-
ment, 100%; specialist services, 80%; and fellowships, 70%. The Governrnent
intends to grant exemption from customs duties and taxes for goods and ser-
vices for the project.
Financing Plan
3.06      In addition tc the proposed IDA credit of US$22.0 million the proj-
ect would be financed by US$4.5 million from the EEC Special Action Fund and
by US$4.5 million from the French "Caisse centrale de coopération économique"
(CCCE). The proposed financing plan is detailed in Annex 4.3 and summarized
below.
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Total           EEC Special
Cost      IDA  Action Fund  CCCE  Government
Primary education                    5.9      2.3       3.2        -        0.4
Technical education                  6.0       5.2      0.3        -        0.5
Vocational training                  2.5      2.5        -         -         -
National College of Agriculture   6.9         3.1        -        3.5       0.3
Mlanagement Training Institute       3.0       2.8       -         -        0.2
Project Unit                         1 1       1 1       -         -         -
Total base cost                    25.4      17.0       3.5       3.5       1.4
Contingencies                        1.7      1.1       0.3       0.2       0.1
Price escalation                     6.0      3.9       0.7       (.8       0.6
Total                                7.7       5.0      1.0       L.0       0.7
Total cost                         33.1      22.0       4.5       4.5       2.1



- 23 -
3.07      The CCCE is expected to participate in the financing of the INDR
component (paras. 2.13-2.15) with a loan of approximately FF 19.0 (US$4.5)
million.  The CCCE loan would, in the frame of the project, finance:
(a)  40% of the total cost of civil works for the INDR -
US$1.5 million;
(b)  furniture for the INDR - US$0.3 million;
(c)  equipment for the INDR - US$0.8 million;
(d)  about 10 man-years of technical assistance - US$0.9
million;
(e)  about 9 man-years of fellowships - US$0.2 million; and
(f)  allowance for price escalation - US$0.8 million.
The CCCE financing for specialist services would include the cost of a director
of studies ("directeur d'études"), a director of field training programs
("responsable des stages"), and 12 man-months of consultant services for the
preparation of teaching programs. The CCCE loan would be disbursed jointly
with the IDA credit for civil works and as parallel financing for all other
expenditures.
3.08      An amount of US$4.5 million would be available for the project from
the EEC Special Action Fund to finance (a) construction, equipment and furni-
ture for the Primary Teacher Training College in Kolda (para. 2.03) - US$3.5
million; (b) complementary equipment for the upper secondary technical school
in St. Louis, the "Lycée Peytavin" (para. 2.09) - US$0.3 million; and (c)
price escalation allowances for these items - US$0.7 million. As a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the IDA credit, the Government should ensure that
all conditions necessary for an initial disbursement from the EEC Special
Action Fund have been satisfied.
3.09      The proposed IDA credit of US$22.0 million would finance 66% of
the total project cost of US$33.1 million for the following project items:
(a)  Primary education:  equipment, furniture, specialist services
and fellowships for (i) introduction of the national languages
(para. 2.02), (ii) the National Institute of Education (para.
2.04), and (iii) planning and project preparation (para. 2.05);
and for primary teacher training (para. 2.03); professional
fees for design of the regional Primary Teacher Training
College in Kolda; equipment and fellowships to upgrade teachers
and headmasters; and specialist services and fellowships for
the primary education and teacher training specialist - US$2.4
million.
(b) Technical education: (i) construction and sit,e development,
professional fees, equipment, furniture and specialist ser-
vices for ENSET (paras. 2.06-2.08); (ii) construction and



- 24 -
equipment for extension of existing workshops at IUr (para.
2.06); and (iii) equipment for workshops in the upper second-
ary technical school in St. Louis (para. 2.09) - US$5.5 million.
(c)  Vocational training:  construction, equipment, furniture,
specialist services and fellowships (paras 2.10-2.12) -
US$2.6 million.
(d)  National College of Agriculture:  50% of the total cost
of construction and site development, architectural fees,
Il man-years of specialist services, and 9 man-years of
fellowships (paras. 2.13-2.15) - US$3.3 million.
(e)  Management Training Institute:  construction and site develop-
ment, professional fees, equipment, furniture, specialist
services, and fellowships (paras. 2.16-2.18) - US$3.2 million.
(f)  Project Unit:  equipment, furniture and specialist services
(para. 2.18) - US$1.1 million.
(g)  Allowance for price escalation on these items - US$3.9
million.
3.10      The proposed IDA credit would finance 66% of the total project
cost, net of taxes.  Of the foreign exchange cost of US$20.9 million, the IDA
credit would finance 75%; the CCCE loan, 15%; and the EEC Special Action Fund,
10%.  The local costs of US$12.2 million, excluding taxes, would be financed
by the IDA credit (49%), the CCCE loan (14%), the EEC Special Action Fund
(19%) and the Government (18%). External financing would amolnt to US$31.0
million, or 94% of the total project cost, net of taxes. The Government
would finance the remaining US$2.1 million.
Project Recurrent Cost
3.11      When the project-assisted institutions become operational, the
Government's annual recurrent expenditure would increase by about US$2.2
(CFAF 480) million, 1979 prices.  The table below shows the inicremental
recurrent expenditures expected to be generated by each componient.
Responsible        Annual Cost
Project Component             Ministry         (CFAF million)      US$('000)
Primary education               MEN                  20               90
Technical education             MEN                150               680
Vocational training             MEN                  20               90
National College of
Agriculture                   MES                225            1,000
Management Training
Institute                     MES                 65              300
Total                                         480            2,160



- 25 -
The Ministry of National Education would absorb about US$0.9 (CFAF 190)
million of these incremental recurrent costs, which represent about 1% of its
total 1978 recurrent budget. The Ministry of Higher Education would absorb
about US$1.3 (CFAF 290) million, representing 8% of its total 1978 recurrent
budget. During negotiations, the budgetary impact of the project was reviewed
with the Government and assurances were obtained that the Government will
make adequate budgetary provisions for the operation and maintenance of all
project-assisted institutions. Assurances were also obtained during negotia-
tions that the Government will discuss and agree with IDA on adequate budgetary
provisions for INDR, ESGE and ENSET during the budget year prior to their
opening.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Preparation
4.01      Educational specifications for all the project institutions were
prepared prior to appraisal. For the architectural design work, locally
established firms of consulting architects have been appointed. Preliminary
drawings have been prepared for the Primary Teacher Training College, the
Technical Teacher Training College and the National College of Agriculture;
design work is continuing, financed with funds from the Project Preparation
Facility. The Government has signed a contract with a firm of consulting
architects acceptable to IDA for the design of the Management Training
Institute.   The final architectural designs for the major project components
are expected to be completed by September 1979 and by April 1980 for the ESGE.
Construction of buildings and installation of furniture and equipment would
be completed between March and October 1982. Provision of specialist services
and fellowships would continue until June 1984, when the entire project is
expected to be completed. The closing date of the credit would be December
31, 1984, to allow for all accounts to be closed.
Project Unit
4.02      The Project Unit established within the Ministry of Public Works
to implement the first and second education projects (para. 1.38), would also
be responsible for the administration and supervision of physical implementa-
tion of the third education project. The Ministries of National Education and
Higher Education would each designate senior officials to serve as sub-project
managers in conformity with Senegalese administrative practices. They would
advise and assist the Project Director on issues relating to the design of
educational programs and buildings, equipment specifications, selection of
specialists and the planning of their work. They would also furnish the
Project Director with all relevant information required for physical implemen-
tation of the project and for reports to IDA. The subproject manager for the
National College of Agriculture, who would be appointed by the Minister of
Higher Education, would collaborate with officials of the Ministry of Rural
Development on the technical aspects of the project.



- 26 -
Specialist Services and Fellowships
4.03      The project would provide about 150 man-years of specialist ser-
vices. About half of this total is expected to be provided by expatriate
specialists. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that (a) expatriate specialists and sub-contracting agencies financed under
the project will have qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
service acceptable to IDA; and (b) local staff financed under the project will
be recruited and employed in accordance with criteria acceptable to IDA.
4.04      The project would provide 34 man-years of fellowships for the
training of local staff outside Senegal (Annex 4.5). During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that it will (a) award fellow-
ships to suitably qualified persons for training programs acceptable to IDA,
and (b) require the fellowship holders to serve at least three years in the
positions for which they were trained. The project would also finance about
30 man-years of local training courses to upgrade about 1,200 primary school
headmasters and teachers.
Sites
4.05      Suitable sites for all project institutions have been selected and
agreed with IDA.   Except for ESGE, topographical surveys have been conducted
and the information made available to the consulting architects (para. 4.01).
During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will provide
evidence to IDA by September 30, 1979, that it has acquired the land required
For the construction of the project facilities and that this land is available
for the purposes of the project.
Procurement
4.06      Civil works valued at US$8.6 million (including joint financing of
US$1.5 million by the CCCE for the National College of Agriculture - para.
3.07) and furniture and equipment valued at US$4.0 million, which would be
financed by IDA funds (US$9.7 million - para. 3.09) would be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's guidelines.
Procurement of civil works valued at US$2.8 million and equipment and furni-
ture valued at US$1.1 million, which is expected to be financed with funds
from the EEC Special Action Fund (para. 3.08), would be on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's guidelines with the
exception that bidding would be limited to members and associate members of
the EEC. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed
a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the
total applicable customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower. Items
of furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped in packages of at least
US$50,000 equivalent, or which are not suitable for international competitive
bidding, would be procured by inviting quotations from at least three reliable
suppliers whenever possible, or procured in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA; the total value of such items would
not exceed US$0.5 million. Procurement of furniture and equipment valued at
US$1.1 million, financed by the CCCE (para. 3.07), would be in accordance with
the CCCE guidelines.



- 27 -
Disbursements
4.07      The proceeds from the IDA credit would be disbursed against the
project items indicated in para. 3.09, as follows:
(a)  50% of total civil works expenditures for project item
(d) - US$1.9 million;
(b)  85% of total civil works expenditures for project items
(b), (c) and (e) - US$4.2 million;
(c)  100% of total expenditures for professional services -
US$0.8 million;
(d)  100% of total expenditures for furniture - US$0.6 million;
(e)  100% of total expenditures for equipment, teaching materials
and vehicles - US$3.4 million;
(f)  100% of the total cost of specialist services - US$6.1
million;
(g)  100% of the total cost of fellowships - US$0.5 million;
(h)  100% of the withdrawn project preparation funds - US$0.4 million;
(i)  the deposit establishing a revolving fund - US$0.2 million; and
(j)  US$3.9 million would be unallocated;
The Government intends to grant exemption from customs duties and taxes for
all goods and services procured for the project. It should be a condition
of disbursement for civil works for the National College of Agriculture that
all conditions necessary for an initial disbursement from the CCCE loan for
financing the project items listed in para. 3.07 have been satisfied.
4.08      The proceeds from the EEC Special Action Fund (para. 3.08) would be
disbursed as follows:
(a)  85% of total civil works expenditure - US$2.7 million;
(b)  100% of total expenditure for furniture - US$0.3 million;
(c)  100% of total expenditure for equipment and vehicles -
US$0.9 million; and
(d)  US$0.6 million would be unallocated.



- 28 -
4.09      All IDA and EEC disbursements would be fully documented except for
local staff training seminars (paras. 2.02 and 2.03) and local staff salaries
(para. 4.03), which would be against a certified statement of expenditure, the
documentation for which would not be submitted but held by the Project Unit
for review by IDA supervision missions. The Project Unit would operate under
Government financial procedures and its staff would include an accountant who
would maintain the necessary accounts and records according to procedures
outlined in para. 4.11. The schedules of implementation and disbursements are
given in Annexes 5.1 and 5.2.
Revolving Fund
4.10      Because the Government may have difficulty in pre-financing expen-
ditures to be reimbursed under the IDA credit, a revolving fund of US$200,000,
financed by the IDA credit, would be established to pay the salaries of
instructional staff, fellowships, educational planning and research personnel,
and Project Unit staff on direct contract with the Government, and to purchase
small items of equipment and furniture for project institutions. The Government
gave assurances during negotiations that an account for this purpose will be
opened in a local commercial bank and would be operated under terms and con-
ditions acceptable to IDA. The opening of this account would be a condition
of effectiveness of the IDA credit. IDA would replenish the account upon
receipt of evidence of disbursements from the fund for allowable expenditures.
Should any payments be made from the revolving fund that are not acceptable
to IDA, the Government would be responsible for replenishing the fund in the
corresponding amount. In addition to this IDA-financed fund, the Government
would establish a revol<ing fund of US$230,000 (CFAF 50 million) to prefinance
the operating costs of the Project Unit and finance the local contribution to
the project. This fund would be replenished quarterly from the Government
budget. During negotiaticG s, assurances were obtained that the fund will be
established by the Government by December 31, 1979, at the latest.
Accounts and Audits
4.11      The Project Unit would establish accounts for the project, in
accordance with accepted accounting practices, to record all project expend-
itures. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that (a) all accounts will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA, (b) the project accounts and the audit report will be submitted to IDA
for review and comment within six months after the close of each fiscal year,
and (c) the accounts and the audit report will be of such scope and in such
detail as IDA shall reasonably request, including a separate opinion whether
the expenditures withdrawn from the credit on the basis of certificates of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were provided.
The IDA credit would finance the audit fees.



- 29 -
Evaluation
4.12      For most project components, it would be too early to evaluate
the impact of the project before its completion, but a preliminary evaluation
of the national language experiment would be financed by the credit (para.
2.02). The planning section of DRP and INEADE would gather data on the project's
achievements which would allow future in-depth evaluation. During negotia-
tions the Government gave assurances that ENSET, INDR and ESGE will maintain
records on their graduates' employment history which could serve as a basis
for future tracer studies.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01      The project would increase the supply of high- and middle-level
manpower for the modern industrial and agricultural sector, and at the same
time would lay the foundation for increasing access to education in rural
areas and would improve, at the secondary level, the balance between the
liberal arts and the science and technical streams (para. 1.27). Specifically,
the project is expected to yield significant benefits with regard to the
following:
(a) institution building, by strengthening educational
research and planning and project implementation
capacity and by preparing the creation of a
National Vocational Training Office;
(b) preparing plans to increase access to primary
education by supporting studies on ways to better
link teaching programs to the students' home
environment, and to reduce the cost of primary
education by introducing instruction in national
languages;
(c)  improving teaching programs (i) in technical schools
by training 60 technical teachers annually and pro-
viding workshop equipment for two upper secondary
technical schools enrolling 1,500 pupils; and (ii)
in primary schools by improving in-service and pre-
service teacher training programs; and
(d) producing qualified manpower by (i) training and
upgrading about 500 workers from the modern industrial
sector annually, (ii) training 40 university-level
agriculturalists annually, and (iii) training 40
business managers and upgrading up to 1,000 middle-
and high-level managers of private and parapublic
enterprises annually.



- 30 -
5.02      Problems similar to those that have occurred in the implementation
of the first and second education projects with respect to de:"inition of
educational objectives of the rural youth training component, appointment
of architects, and standards of designs, are not expected to occur in the
third project because project preparation is further advanced,, Specifically,
the Government and IDA have agreed on all the educational programs and the
Government has taken or agreed to take the following actions: (a) prepare
final architectural drawings for all project institutions except the ESGE by
September 1979 (para. 4.01); (b) strengthen the Project Unit, particularly
with regard to equipment procurement (para. 4.03); (c) reinforce the planning
unit of the Ministry of National Education (para. 2.05); and (d) simplify
local civil works procurement and contract award procedures (para. 4.06). A
further positive development is the recent creation of a "ComiLte de relance
des investissements" within the Ministry of Planning, which monitors project
implementation and brings serious implementation problems to the attention of
authorities at the highest level and which has already achieved some success.
In view of these measures, it is expected that the project would be imple-
mented without undue delay.
5.03      The major risk for the project would concern staffing and budgetary
support for the project-financed institutions. To limit the risk of future
staffing problems, the project would finance technical assistance and fellow-
ships for staff training (paras. 4.03, 4.04) and the Government has been
encouraged to seek additional assistance from bilateral and multilateral
sources (paras. 2.15, 2.18) to cover staffing needs while local staff are
not yet available during the initial years of operation of the project insti-
tutions.  In view of th. interest already expressed by bilateral donors and
Senegal's previous success in attracting technical assistance,, the staffing
needs are expected to be satisfactorily met.
5.04      The seriousness of the recurrent financing problem will depend to
a large extent on the success of Senegal's ongoing efforts to improve its
economic performance. Also, there is scope for more efficient use of funds
allocated for education; the project-financed study of educati,on costs and
financing (para. 2.05) would make recommendations to identify and reallocate
savings from current commitments.  In view of the high priority the Govern-
ment attaches to the proposed project institutions, it is expected that, if
needed, funds to cover their operating costs will be made avai,lable by re-
allocating funds from budgetary items of lesser priority.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECO1M1MENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that:
(a)  INEADE, ENSET, INDR and ESGE will be legally estab-
lished by November 1, 1979. The internal organization
and responsibilities of INEADE and the structure of the
teaching programs at ENSET, INDR and ESGE shall be
acceptable to IDA (paras. 2.04, 2.07, 2.14 and 2.16`;



- 31 -
(b) Adequate office space for INEADE will be provided by
November 1, 1979 (para. 2.04);
(c)  The study on education cost and financing arrangements
will be reviewed with IDA before October 1981 (para.
2.05);
(d) The Vocational Training and Upgrading Center (CFPP)
and the Pre-employment Vocational Training Center
(CQID) will be integrated into one autonomous insti-
tution by December 31, 1982 (para. 2.11);
(e) Candidates for the posts of director, deputy director
and program director of INDR will have qualifications,
experience and terms of reference acceptable to IDA,
and will be appointed before September 1, 1979 (para.
2.15);
(f) ESGE will become the nucleus of a regional management
training institute should the creation of such an institute
in Dakar be decided (para. 2.17);
(g) Candidates for the posts of director and program director
of ESGE will have qualifications, experience and terms of
reference acceptable to IDA and will be appointed before
December 31, 1980 (para. 2.18);
(h) The Government will make adequate budgetary provision for
the operation and maintenance of all project-assisted
institutions, and will discuss and agree with IDA on
adequate budgetary provisions for INDR, ESGE and ENSET
during the budget year prior to their opening (para. 3.11);
(i) The qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions
of employment of expatriate specialists and sub-contracting
agencies financed under the project are acceptable to IDA
(para. 4.03);
(j) Fellowships will be awarded to suitably qualified persons
for training programs satisfactory to IDA, and the fellow-
ship holders will be required to serve at least three years
in the positions for which they were trained (para. 4.04);
(k) The Government will provide evidence to IDA by September
30, 1979, that it has acquired the land required for
construction of the project facilities and that this land
is available for the purposes of the project (para. 4.05);



- 32 -
(1)  The Government will establish by December 31, 1979, at
the latest, the revolving fund, financed from the Govern-
ment budget (para. 4.10);
(m) The project accounts will be audited by independent
auditors, an audit report will be submitted to IDA for
review and comment not later than six months after the
close of each fiscal year, and the audit will be of such
scope and detail as IDA may reasonably request (para.
4.11); and
(n) ENSET, INDR and ESGE will maintain records of the
employment history of their graduates, to serve as
a basis for future tracer studies (para. 4.12).
6.02      As conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit, the Govern-
ment should submit evidence that (a) all conditions necessary for an initial
disbursement from the EEC Special Action Fund have been satisfied (para.
3.08), and that (b) a project account has been opened in a commercial bank
for a revolving fund operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA
(para. 4.10).
6.03      As a condition of disbursement for civil works for the INDR compo-
nent, the Government should submit evidence that all conditions necessary for
an initial disbursement from the CCCE loan for financing the project items
detailed in para. 3.07 have been satisfied (para. 4.07).
6.04      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project consti-
tutes a suitable basis for the proposed IDA credit of US$22.0 million to the
Republic of Senegal.



- 33 -
SENEGAL - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT / TROIS1lME PROJET EDUCATION                                          ANNEX 1
STRUCTURE OF TRE EDUCATION SYSTEM / STRUCTURE DU SYSTEME EDUCATIF - 1978
VNIVERSITY
ESGE       UNIVERSITE        ENS
[1E1F1171                                                 ENSET                         INDF.
B.A.
LICENSE171
r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1 Z6                                                                                6                           EENCEA
1                   ~~~~~ENCR
a-, -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tc
z
0, rA                                                  BACCALAUREATE                 TECHNIClAN DIPLOMA
s AGRICULTURAL SCHOOL                                BACCALAUREAT                  BREVET DES ETUDES
ECOLE AGRICOLE                                                            PROIESSIONNELLES                                   ENR
rIFEM
C.131CIG                                                                                                                               CEMT
g~~~1                                                    12                              1                                         121
EMP
CEPE
az                                                                          E
MZ                 8
4,                                          T                                                          7~L
CEP



-  4-                                                   ANNEX 2.1
Page i of 2
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
APPIL I. 1979
GNP/:% GNP   :Yi TOTAL:%  0F PUBLIC                                     :PRI. :AV.PRI.                          :SEC
:CAPITA: OEVOTED-PURLIC    EDUCATrON    :LITER-   PRr. :COMPLE- :STU- :SCfH.TEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC- ~STU- :HIGHER.
:  AT     TO EDU. :  EXP.   RECURRENT    :ACY          :ENROLL:TION      O[ENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE :ENROLL:DENTS:ENRQLI->
:MARKET: (PURLIC:DEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE  :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER   :PEIATION :FROM PRI. :RATIO  FPER   :RATIO
POP.  FPRICES: EXP.         Ta    :      TO:       s(% 0F   : NET   :PRI.SCH. :TEACH: TC GNP/ :TO SEC.           NET   :TEACH- GROSS:
Yl1MILLS~ (US$), ONIVI           EDU- :PS. SEC~ HI. ADULTSI: (%)  -CYCLEi%>:ER     CAPITA                  <)         ()    6         (0
II): (2)    (3)        (4>           (5>         (6)    :(7)        (8)      (9)      <10)      (il)      :(12)   :(E13) :(14)
AD VANOC 4
AUJSTRIA        74   75SF 4,670F        5.3V    8.5EY  24Y  51Y  I5Y   99           9R        930       260      2.00       950       510     190    16.857
CANADA          75  22.8  7.135         7. 3    16.7     30   37   26    98          99       97        19       2.0        99        90      18      16-00
GERMANY F-REP.75  61-8  6.670           5.0    10.2      31EY 64-- 26EY  99          90       99        22EY       - .      9y        84Y     22C    20.26Y
JAPAN           75 111.6  4.450         4.3E  20.7E    4OUV 37UY IlUY  99           990       99C      25        2.05       99C      9587    20C    24.69Y
NETHERLANDS    75  13.7  5 ,425         9.4    22-40    21   39   25        99       95       95        29       2.0        97        80      20      12-00
NEW ZEALAND   73   3. IF 4,280F         5.2    ..-.      39   24   29       99       99       99        26        ...       99        S7       19     24.00
NORWAV          76   4.0  8.043         7.2    I4.4      54   24    15    99         99       99        16        1.5       99E       62       Il     11.00
SWEOEN          76   8.2  8. 150        8.6    t4.0      23   29    12    99        99        99        16       . ..       90?       85C     13      30 -OOC
U,K-             76  56.0  3.780        7.1    13.9      26   41    1 8     99       99       ...       24       2.0        ...       68       1 7    2l.00X
U.S.A.          76 214.6  7.950         5.4    15.9    ---   72-- 2 8       99E      99       99        22        ---       99        93       1 9    24.00
EUROPE
GREECE          76   9.1  2.590         2.6    10.4      37   26    21      869     99        820       31      2.0         70E       80      27      15.00
IRELANO         74   31IF 2.390F        5.1    t3.g0    43Y  41Y  14Y   98         108X7      998      35       .. .        959       6587    1 9     15.47Y
PORTUGAL        75   9.6   1.570        4.4    17.8      52   27    1 3    70       98        55        21      3.0         70        29      1 4      7.60
ROMANIA         75  21.2   1.240        4.0      6.4     36    1 9    13    98       IOIX     . ..      21I     . ..        98        49      22      1O0.0
SPAIN           74  35.3F 2.750F        2.49   15.2A   49Y  22Y  15V   949    IISXV           . ..      354     . ..        . ..      78XY   30       17.68Y
4FPICA
A1.GE91A        77  16.9       990G     7.5    14.3FY  42    ...  21        35       78X      45        39       4.0        55        26X      13      6.00
RENIN      74   ~~~~~3-1F    130F  7.2N  36.0V    470)  230  IOD    110        44V      709       53V     25.08       43         18       98     0.74Y
SOI'SWANA        76   0.7      410      4.0    19.2      53   20    14        3      72X      95        32       3.0        60        12      22       0.30
RURUNDI          74   3.7F    110F      2.5    19.90   479  419  12R    10           20X      30?       38       10.0        14        2X      la      1.0
CAMEROON        78    7.7      2 14      3.7   21.5      32    43   20        -     60        45        52      4.0         2.0        90     24       0.OOCV
C.ARP.          74    1.8F    220F      3.00   17.OD   569   1919.  .            .- 79XY      25        69V      ...        la         88V    279Y   0.2tY
CHA0            75   4.0       120      3.0    10.0      78   22   ...    15         29X9V    30        6587    15.0         8         2X97   30       0.019V
CONGOCR)        74    1.3F    510F      6.0    19.3    40   32    21        507    1328       63        63       6.0        48        328     22       3.40
E07P7           76  38.2       310      5.9N    ...    30   32   25         44       76       80        31        . ..      79        45      20       12.00
TTHIOFIA        77  29.0       100      2.4    12.5   44       31    14     10      26        -.        50        ---       63         9      38       --
-,A R-ON        74   05SF 2.540F        5.00  20.60    250    90   110        -    100V       25C      46C       5.0        194       31V     21C     0.29Y
C.IMRIA          76   0.5      170      3.3    11.5      48    25     6      10      27       90        32       ---        92        13      25
OHANA            74   99        9F       ..     19.77    43Y  22Y  2070   ...        60X7      2         0       ..         18        38       16C7    1.097
GCUINEA          76   4.7      180F     4.3NO   -        30   31   30        . ..    308      64        45        12F       86        12X     26       4.00
Y.P0 -0045   76   7.0      610       6.9    22.1     33   46    12        94     50       86        42      7.0         47        17X7    26       1.R4Y
76   12.8     240       5.9    26.0     67   23    10    40         80?      60?       34       6.0        30        16      7~7      I O)
L ESO TiHO      75    1.2      160     12.OP  23.0       49    18   20      40      95        50       52        7.ON       ai        10      2 6      1 .00~
11P11514    7~-15   1.5   410       2. 4    13.2     27    15   20    113       58        ...      35        2.0        -.       12       26       1.1047
-IADA7.AsCAR    77   8.0      240       4.0    24.0      53   28    19    90        90        23       44        6.0        28        t4      23       1 70
MAL4w1          77   5.6       140      2.2      9.3     40    17   22      25      568       21       81        5.0         9         58     21      0.47
WL         ~~~~~75   5.7F   90F     4.2M  23.0F   45F  37F   19F    10F         22XF      . ..     48F      5.5F        50F        6X     21        ..
SURJITANIA      71    1.3F    220F      4.IY  20.07..10.9.. IO                      17XY      ...      22A       ...        -.        28V    24A        .
VAURITTUS       76   0.91.    680       4.7    12.1    50    26       6     80C      94       99        24       4.5         90       45      32       1.50
MOPOCCO         76   18.2      520      6.3    15.2      399  499   139    28        65X      33        40        . ..      33        17X     22       4.00
NlIGERIA        74  750OF    340F       4-10Y 24.20V   23Y  16Y  42Y    ...    49XV           ---.    340Y        ...       . ..      108     20CY   0.49Y
5 1SNO&         73   4.17    100F       3.2C  28.00... - .. 23                      52        .. .      5I       ...        -.         2      12      0.22CY
SENEGAL         77   5.2       420      5.0    23.0      46   34    20      'O      22        ...      49       10.0        20        10      21       1.5
SIE754 LEONE  73   30OF    200F         3.4    23.4      31   36    30      167     34X       45       32        4.0E       68        128     21      0.5297
,ODMALIA        75   3.2       110      3.70   10-9Q   490   160  19Q   50?         34X       86       35       10.0        80         3      15      0.10
SUDAN           76  15.9       290      4.5    19.9      48   26    16    20        34        74       32        2.8        22        14      24        1.24
SWAZILAND       75   0.5       470      3.8      ---     38   31    19    50        73        71        38       3.8        51        24      22       1.00
TANTANIA        76  15.1       180      6.6    17.4      42   21    1 2     80      938       si       49        6.6         6         4X     19      0.24
70141514I        73   5.6F    720F      6.3    23.4      27   43    18      55      72        si       41        6.0        31        14      21      3.00
003004      ~~~75  11.6   220       3.40Y 15.710Y  34EY 40EY 22EY  25A    53XY            . ..     34EY      .. .       149        6XCV   21A    0.56V
,IPPEP VOLTA    77   5.8       118      3.4   23.9       31    16   32      S5C      13       23       si       24.0        19         2      25       1.0
7715E           76  25.6       140      6.0   22.0       49   26   25       15      868       44       42X       2.0        41        13X     27       l.007
ZAMBIA          76   5.1       440      6.8    15.9      54   22   22       39      97X       80       49        7.0        21        16      23       1.50
CENTRAL AMERICA AN0 THE CASIRREAN
77584005        76   0.2   1.620        8.1   22.1       43   31    16    99        1068      99        21       3.0        99        94X     17        -
CQSTA SICA      55   2.0       960      5.28  22.76    579  258   129    898    1098V         656       296      3.09       598       52XY   256    17-15Y
CUBA            7 8   9.5  9. 500       8.0    11.0........    96                   98        98        22       2.7        98        65      1 5     l5.00
DOMINICAN REP-72   4.7F    720F         2.0    13.9      42   24   22       51      90        17        54       3.00       63        13.5   24        7.00
EL. SALVADOR    77   4.1      570       4.4    27.2      64     9   27      62      898       32       29        2.2        41       23       21      7.00O
GUATEMALA       73   6.3F   570F         1.9    16.0     55   23    1 4     47      64        26        35       3.0        69         9      25       4.09<
HAITI           76   4.7       200       1.0     8.0     81   21    Il    209        25F      1 3       56U      3.0        62         4      . ..      0.7
IO0NOuRAS       75   2.9      390G      4.20   18.60    620   190  '96   53         78        30       35        3.0        e8        Il      1 7     4.00
IAMAIC4         76   2.1  1.070         9.9    16.2      27   33   22       86E     91        52       39        4.5        94        64      25       7.58
MEXICO          75  59.9   1,050         3.100 12.000  51Y  26Y  12Y   76           t1787     31        46       3.0        63        358V    234      8.97EY
NICARAGUA       74   2.3F    700F       2.5    14.2      61    13    1 3    57       65       21        37       2.0        93        17      24       7.00
7RINIDAD A T. 77    1-1  2.186          4. 5    14.1     48   32   20       95      98        91        20       3.0        49        62      24        ..
SOUTH AMERICA
SOLIVIA         76   5.8       315F     5.0    17 5F       .    .. .. 38             179      290       24       SF         ..         49      190       -
9RAZIL          75 107.0  1.020         5.0    12.4      42E  20E   37E  64A    860           . ..      27CY       -        . .       26G      1507    6 .003
CHILE           75  10.3       990      3.S97  12.597   23Y  10Y  507    . ..   11987           -       357       . ..       . ..     48XY    . ..   16.557
COLOMRIA        74  23-6F    580F       3.307 21,20Y  440Y 2207  1l7   73           10587     20        ?2V      4.0        90        3687    14A      6.673y
ECUADOR         75   7.1    5390        3.70  27.7C... - .. 69                      102XY     ...       36C      ...        -.        38XY    14C
GUVYANA         74   08BF    510F       5.SN  14.70    47   35    I4    834          928      39        33       6.0        19        62X     24       i.00
PARAGUAVY       74    2.6F    560F       1.9    11.0     55    12   22      s1       82       26        30        f.9       65        17       12      5 100
IE0U            75  15-4    760         4.20Y 21-70Y  40Y  22Y  15V    72           11187     38        2907     3.0        70        48XY   220Y  14 413
UiRUGUAT        75    2.8   1.300       2.5    15.3    46   34    20        94       928      . ..      24        . ..      83        --       la 1
VEIIE2UELA      73   120OF 2.280F       4.6    9g.9      300  280  350   77A         ai       ...       33       2.4        -.        33       ..     127V



-35-                                     ANNEX 2.1
Page 2 of 2
GNP/    GNP   1 TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                                 :PRI. :AV.PRI.                       :SEC
CAPITA: DEVOTEO:PU8LIC   EOUCATION    :LITER-   PRI.  :CCOMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PRCGRESS-: SEC. :STU- :HIGNER:
AT    TO EDU.:  EXP.   RECURRENT   :ACY         :ENROLL:TION      :OENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE :ENROLL:OENTS:ENROLL:
:MARKET: (PUBLIC:OEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATEO:  RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER  :RELATION :FROM PRI. :RATIO :PER  :RATIO 
POIP. :PRICES: EXP.       TO           TO:      :(% 0F     NET  :PRI.SCH. :TEACH: TO GNP/ :TO SEC.    NET  :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:MILLS-.  (US$): ONLY)       EDU. :PR!. SEC. HI. :AOULTS): (31)  :CYCLE(%>:ER         CAPITA       M   (%)  :3) ER        (%
( 1)      (2)    (3)   t(4)             (S)        (6)      (7)      (a)      (9)    (IO)   s(Il)    :.( 2)   <13) :(14)
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANIATAN   77M. 14.3    160G       1.8   11.6    47   19   15    12         29X      89       37       3.OG       62       6X    17       1.00
BANGLADESH    73  78.6F    90F        1.2   20.2    44V  22Y  21Y   230    56X          . ..     480      ...        ..      23X0   28       ..
CHINA(TAIWAN) 73  16.OF   930F    3.2   14.0    28   41   22    82             98C      94       40      14.0       84       BiC    26    20.000
INDIA          75 608.1    140        2.SVY  ..        .. .....    296    653V          ...      43A      ...      _...      29XY   20AV    2.34EY
INOONESIA      76 130.2    240        3.0   11.0    26   32   16    606    79EX    43E           30E      2.0      62E       19EX   14E    2.00
IRAN           73  33.4F 1,660F    3.3   12.6    SOS  188  126   50            77       74A      32       5.08      804      24      32     4.32CY
1640           75  11.1  1.250        6.7C  16.3D0 .. .....   26C    933V               ...      22       ...       ...      35XY   26C    8.47Y
JORDAN         73   2.7F   460F    7.0    8.6    32   15   21    59            913      76       38       5.0       84       903    22       4.00
KOREA          76  35-9    698        3.0   15.60   65   13    8    92F   103X          97       50       2.6       80       84      39   14.4
LERANON        72   3.2F 1.070F    3.5   16.0    39   40   10    68            86       65       19       2.0       63       26U    25    23.00
MALAYSIA       76  12.6    860        6.7   26.0    42   34   15    60C    95           93       32       3.7       78       48      28      3.00
NEPAL          76  12.6F   110F       1.1   10.0    29   20   41    19         59       28       31       2.3       64       14      24      0.8
OM.AN          72   0.8F 2. 300F      1.7N   3.8    96    -   -        20      24X      98       27F      7.0       ---      0.43     9      ..
PAKISTAN       75  69.2      160      1.6   16.2    45   25   lA8   21         47X      50       39       2.0       . ..     173     1 a     6.00
PAPUA NSG.    75   2.8    470         5.6   16.1    36   16   24    32         577      73P      31      11.0       90       12X7?  24       0.907
PHILIPPINES   74  42.2F   380F    2.9   14.5    73   19   12    87    1043              .. .     34      15.0       ...      463     .. .   21.00
SINGAPOBE      74   2.3F 2.450F    2.7V   9.2Y   39V  39V  17Y   75A   1093V    72A              31V      . ..      994      44XY   24       7.68V
AVIIIA         75   7.4    720        3.6   6.9      39   25   26    53        89       70       35       2.0       92       45      21    12.00
THAILAND       73  41.9F   350F    4.ONF 20.7F   65    9   195   82            873      93C      32       3.0 U    91C       21X    24       2.00
TURKEY         73  40.2F   800F    5.60V 20.6CV..                     .        85       ..       34Y       .        .. .     24Y    270V   5.83V
VEMEN          73   5.9F   200F    0.5    4.0    45P  21P  23P   10            153      18       35f      5.0       75        2X     1 6    0.056V
YEMEN P.D.R.  76   1.7    280         6.6     ..    57   28    a    20         893      48       30       5.0       94       213    24      0.10
SUJMMARY FOR DEVEL.OPING COUNTRIES'
NUMBER 0F COUNTRIES:                  94    90      88   8e   85    87        95       74       95         68      77       94      91       84
RANGE                             (0.5-  (3.8-  (26- (5-  (2-   (3-    (14-    (13-    (19-             (1.9-   (7-      (.4-   (9-        (.01-
12.0 ) 33.0>   96 ) 47)  41>   98)    1333)   99            69)    25.0 )   99)        80  )  39)   23.0)
QUARTILES:UPPER                    5.1   21.2    54   32   22    73          94       76       46         7      83       36      25      7.0
MEOIAN:                 3.9   16.3    45   23   18    50         78       55       36         4       63       17      23      2.3
LOWER :3.0   12.4    38   18   12    20                           53      30       32         a       43        9      20       .9
SYMBOLS:. ... OATUM UJNAVAILABLE            A=1970 OR BEFORE           M=CURRENT PRICES                       SOURCES:
-MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8=1971                        N=GOP----
7   UESTIONARLE                  C=1972                    P-rNCLUOING FOREIGN AID                 COLUMNES:  AND 2 WORLO BANKE ATLAS
-   NCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0=1973                      O=CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                      OR 16R0 MISSIONS
COM6INEO WITH PRIMARV          E=1974                     R=MINISTRY 0F EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY               3 TO 14 IB60 MISSIONS
U. NDER REVIEW                    F~1975                     S=MOE AND STATE GOVT_ ONLY                                AND/OR UNESCO
G=1976                    T=EXCLUOING CENTRAL GOVI.                                 STATISTICAL
U=PUBLIC ONLV                                             YEAIRBOOI<
V=INCLUOINII PRIVATE EXPENOlITURE
X=INCLUOING OVERAGEO STUDENTS
VIJ)NESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE LJSEFUL IN THE EVALUATION 0F VARIOUIS EDUCAVION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES 0F EOUCATIONAL
DEVELOPRENT BETW~EEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. H-OWEVER.ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA.CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULO BE APPRCACHEO WIITH
GBFAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY 6V THE BANKE MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF E5TIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE REEN MADE TO STANOARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITA. TO CHECK THE
ACCUBACY 0YF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS.SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANKE IS W0RKING TO IMPROV/E THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THiE OCCASION 0F ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE 0F THESE DATA. THI FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD SE BORNE IN
*MINO.
I  )'EOUCATION' AS OEFINEO IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EOUCATION AND TRAINING. FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL;
(2)IPRIMARY EDUCATION REFERA TO ÉDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERA TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONOARY
LIVEL BEGAROLESS 0F TYPE (ES.G GENERAL. TECHNICAL. AGRICULTURAL) '
(3)'LITERACY RATES'(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OSTAINEO FRDM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
OOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORN OEFINETION 0F 'LITEBATE' HAS BIEN FOLLOWIO CONSISTENTLV;
-            ~~~(4)IPUBLIC EXPENOITURI IN EDUCATION'(COLS.3.4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RÉCURRENT EXPENOITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION AV
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES:
(5)1ENIOLL,MENT RATIOS'ICOLS 7, 12 AND 141 REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE 0F ELIGIRLE CHILOBEN ENROLLEO FULL-TIME
IN 7HE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE EV LEVEL. THEV ARE OFTEN SUB.JECT TO A WIDE MARGIN 0F ERBOR IN THI DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VABIAFAON EN THE ACCURACV 0F BASIC OATA<ZE.. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREOUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER 0F STUDENTS ACTUALLV EN SCHOUL. OVERAGEO ATUOENTS WHOSE INrCLUSION IS INOICAIEO BY
FOOTNOTES aLSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



SEFEDAI - TIIED EDUCATION Pl'OJSCT / DSIEl B FROJEU EDUCAEIOE
hDUCATION PYR DIE/PDSDDSDh DES EFFECTIFS SEOLDIRES
FPR:EARY AN9 SECODEARY EDDCATION/DFSIDD$DET PEESASES. NOYBN ET SECONDASSE _ 1977/78
13 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~80T
9                                                                                   9,04
8 
7                                                                          1 
5                                                                                                                                                                                                        on 980  H
EH                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TEH
H <    13                                                                                               2,597 ,686                                                                  5,2890                  T
i  4282                                                                                                                                                                                  28,719 3        E 1
45, o       40,550      35,50       30,000      25,000      20,         D5, O       10,          5,00          S         5,000       10,000      15,,00      20,00        25,0         0,W5       3.5W0       40,000      4.5,1)5
2;/ No data by year Of etudy an.ed are aealaDîe./AuDune donnée par ann-e d'dtudes et per sexe n'eet disp-nibeI
|  Se. breakden  by ye-r available and etietated on the basis  of  avereSe of 25% girls./Lee  t.tîstiqeDs par cexe et par ann-é ont été  -clAre sur 1a beac  d'-une  oyenne de 25% de fille.
f                                                                                                                                    c



SENEGAL - TRIRD EDUCATION PROJECT / TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
ENROLLIENTS AND TEACEERS/EFFECTIFS ET CORPS ENSEIGNANT 1975/76
Qualified
teachers      Student:teacher         Enrollment
Enseignants           ratio               ratio          Girls
G?ades       Age group      Enrollment      Teaching staff       qualifiês             Taux              Taux de        Filles
Level/Niveau               Classe     Groupe d'âge      Effectif      Corps enseignant          %          élèves:enseignant    scolarisation          %
Primary education
Enseignement primaire              1-6            7-12            312,000            6,300               49                 50                  30            38
Lower aecondary education          7-10          13-16             52,000
Enseignement moyen
Upper secondary education         11-13          17-19             11,4oo  )322300                       33
Enseignement secondaire                                                                                                     23                  10            31
Upper secondary technical                                                  )
education/Enseignement se-        11-13          17-19              1,600
condaire technique
Teacher training/Formation
des enseignante
Pri.ary/Primaire                11-14          17-20                750               48                _                  _                                16
Zeeendary g.neral               17/18          21/22                300              ...                _                  _
a,e,!daire génér                                                                                                                 )
Secondary techniical
Secondaire technique            14-17/18       18-21/22              70              ... .                                 _
Vocational training and up-                                                                                                                      1
grading/Formation profession-    11-13           20-24              4,0oo              ..0
nelle et perfectionnement
University/Université             14-18                             7,300              450                _                 16
/ Data for later years are incomplete./Les données pour les annéees suivantes sont incomplètes.



- 38 -                              ANNEX 2.4
SENEGAL - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT / TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
PRIMARY EDUCATION - TOTAL ENROLLMENTS BY SEX AND BY REGION
ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE - EFFECTIF TOTAL PAR SEXE ET PAR REGION
(1977)
Age Group
Region                            Groupe d'âge        Girls       % of Girls
Région                 Total           %             Filles      % des filles
Cap Vert              129,299           62           58,138           44
Casamance              57,186           37           17,185           30
Diourbel               10,694          12             3,974           37
Fleuve                 34,799           31           13,564            38
Senegal Oriental       10,416           17             3,557           34
Sine Salounm           43,799           21           i6,844            38
Thies                  47,743           32           19,504           4o
Louga                  11,926           14            4,237           35
TOTAL                 345,862           32          137,003           39



SENEGAL - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT / TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
POPULATION, LABOR FORCE AND EMPLOYMENT, ESTIMATED 1976 (July) AND PROJECTED 1981
POPULATION, MAIN-D'OEUVRE ET EMPLOIS, ESTIMATIONS 1976 (juillet) ET PROJECTIONS 1981
Estimated       Projected        Increase           Average Annual Growth Rate
Demographic status/Démographie     Estimations     Prévisions     Augmentations      Taux de croissance annuel moyen
1976           1981         76 to/à 81                       (%)
Population                             5,115,700       5,816,200        700,500                        2.6
Rural/Rurale                         3,451,600       3,788,700         337,100                       1.88
Urban/Urbaine                        1,664,100       2,027,500         363,400                        4.03
Total urban                            (32.53)          (34.86)
Total urbaine) 
Labor force (active population)        1,673,800       1,849,900         176,10                         2.02
Main-d'oeuvre (population active)
Rural/Rurale                         1,215,300       1,296,100          80,800                        1.30
Urban/Urbaine                          458,500          553,800         95,300                        3.85
Total urban  )                         (27.39)          (29.94)
Total urbaine)
Employment in modern sector    )         139,800         173,900          34,100                        4.46
Emplois dans le secteur moderne)
Private sector/Secteur privé            77,600          99,600          22,000                        5.1
Public sector/Secteur public            16,900           21,000          4,100                        4.5
Government/Gouvernement                 45,300           53,300          8,000                        3.2
Employment in urban informal sector)     227,000          280,200         53,200                        4.03
Emplois dans le secteur informel
Artisans                                34,000           42,400          8,4oo                        4.5
Domestic servants/Domestiques           20,000           22,000          2,000                        1.9
Petty traders and others/Petits)       173,000          215,800         42,8oo                        4 5
commerçants et autres          )                         5
Total urban employment)                  366,800          454,loo         87,300                        4.36
Emplois urbains totaux)
Urban unemployment)                       91,700           99,700          8,ooo                        1.69
Chômage urbain    )
Unemployment rate) %  *(20.0)                           (18.0)
Taux de chômage )
* Urban unemployment divided by urban labor force/Le chômage urbain est divisé par la main-d'oeuvre urbaine
Source:  Preliminary estimates by                                                               (October 1976)
Estimationa  prélimnaires par    Ministère du plan, Service des ressources humaines, (octobre 1976)



SENEGAL - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT / TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
MANPOWER NEEDS IN THE AGRICULTURAL PUBLIC SECTOR/BESOINS EN PERSONNEL DU SECTEUR PUBLIC AGRICOLE 1977-1990
To train/A former 1977-1990
Promotion      Annual       Annual training          Remarks
On train-                                  Higher      needs in        capacity of
Category                  Existing     Needs      ing abroad       New       Attrition       Studies      graduates        institutions          Remarques
personnel    in 1990      En forma-   openings    Renouvelle-    Promotion        Besoina      Capacité annuelle
Catégorie                 Personnel    Besoins       tion a       Postes      ment du          études      annuels en    de formation dem
existant   pour 1990   l'étranger   nouveaux   personnel         supérieures    diplômés        établissements
A. Agricultural engineers              50          630          120         460                                        40 3-                           INDR
Ingénieurs agronomes
B. Veterinarians                       106---Ecole inter-
Docteurs vétérinaires                            65                       55                                         5                 30               Etats
C. Senior technicians                 5            850          _           320           220            150           50                  _
Ingénieurs des travaux                           _ 5          -                                         0
- agriculture                      200          270          -            70            90             60           15
- husbandry/élevage                 80          240          -           160            30             20           15            )   80
- water supply & forestry           60          120           -           60            25             15             8
eaux et forêts                                                                                                                                                              o
- extension work                   100          100           -           -             40             30            5
expansion     '                                                                                                                      40          2/5 BEA capacity
- cooperation                       90          120           -           30            35             25             7           )                 2/5 capacité ENEA
D. Technicians                      1,670        2 020           _          L22           620            400           120
Agents techniques                 .            ,                                        _              _             _
- agriculture                      700          530           -           _            220            100            25                40
- husbandry/élevage                440          430           -           -            180             80            20                60
- water supply & forestry          220          440           -          220            90             80            30                40
eaux et forêts
1/5 ENEA capacity
- cooperation                      100          200           -          100            40             40            15                20           1/5 caPacité ENEA
- Rural home economics             210          420           -          210            90            100            30                45
économie familiale rurale 
On the basis of 3% of the existing personnel per year (or on the needs forecasted for 1990 if the latter are lower)./A raison de 3% par an du personnel
existant (ou des besoins pour 1990 si ceux-ci sont inférieurs).
Included water supply, forestry and rural works.  The figures presented are those given in the SATEC/SONED report (bibliography)./Y compris eaux et
forêts et génie rural. Les chiffres indiqués sont ceux du rapport SATEC/SONED (bibliographie).
With five years of study, needs will only be satisfied in 1994, but a higher number of graduates per year would risk to over expand the Institution                        >
in relation to future needs./Avec cinq années d'études, les besoins ne seront satisfaits qu'en 1994, mais un nombre annuel de diplômés plus élevé ris-
querait de surdimensionner l'établissement par rapport aux besoins ultérieurs.
Source: Senegal: Development of education: Analysis and perspectives, Unesco EFM/83. Paris, June 1977./Sénégal: Développement de l'éducation: Analyse et
perspectives, Unesco EFM/83. Paris, juin 1977.



SENEGAL - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT / TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
MANAGERIAL STAFF EMPLOYED IN MODERN SECTOR ENTERPRISES
AND ESTIMATED ANNIJAL NEEDS (1980-1985)
GESTIONNAIRES EMPLOYES DANS LES ENTREPRISES DU SECTEUR MODERNE
ET ESTIMATIONS DES BESOINS ANNUELS (1980-1985)
Middle level/Niveau moyen                         High level/Niveau supérieur
Expatriates                                        Expatriates-
Employed      Expatriés         Annual needs       Employed       Expatriés         Annual needs
Sector/Secteur           Employés          %           Besoins annuels      Employés           IV%_        Besoins annuels
Parapublic                   585            10                 30              220             30                  15
Private/Privé                768           28                 h0               410             69                  30
TOTAL                    1,353                              70               630                                 45
Source:  IBRD mission estimates/Estimations de la mission BIRD.



SENEGAL - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT / TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
OûST SUMMARY TABLE / TABLEAU SOMMAIRE DES COUTS
(USS thousand/milliers de $EU)
Site develop-   Civil works    Architectural    Furniture    Equipment    Spec. Serv.              Fellowships
Projeet items/Elements du proJet                ment/V.R.D.    Génie civil   fees/Honoraires    Mobilier   Equipement  Afsiat. tech.    Bourses de perf.              TOTAL
A. Primary education & Education planning!                                                                                                                                     -591
Enseignement primaire et planification
de l'enseignement
Introduction of national languages/                       -                 -                             il              22              608                59               700
Introduction des langues nationales
Primary teacher training/Enseignement-                    590             2,350             264          235             472              320               127            4,358
normal
INEADE                                                    -                 -                -             9              16             276                 18               319
Educational planning and project pre-
paration/Planification de l'enseigne-                      -                -               100           10              60              341                30              541
ment et élaboration des projets
B. Technical education/Enseignement technique                                                                                                                                 5,995
Teacher-training/Formation des enseignants                484             2,846             300          285             890             480                 -             5,285
Upper secondary technical schoole/
Lycées techniques                                         -                 -                -            -              710               -                 -                710      e
C. Vocational Training/Formation professionnelle                                                                                                                              2,535
CFPP                                                     _-                 -                             50             650             570                 -             1,270
CQID                                                      -                 130              _            50             350             520                 90            1,140
ONFP                                                      -                 -                -            -               -               125                -                125
D. INDR                                                       756            2,619             295          262             75O            1,950               270            6,902
E. ESGE                                                       130              870              90           87              470           1,238               120            3,005
F. Project management/Gestion du projet                       _                _                _             3              250             855                -             1,108
Base cost/                                              1,960             8,815           1,049        1,002           4,640           7,283                714           25,463
Cout de base
Contingenc ies/Imprévus
rh-vsiral/Guantités                                     196               882             105          100             464               -                 -             1,747
price escalation/augmentation des prix                  34/            2,226              178          2               A'5
Total contingencies/Total imprévus                        543             2,908             283          308           1,422           2,021                200            7,685
2,503           11,723           1,332        1,310           6,062            9,3o4               914           33,148



SENEGAL - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT / TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
CONTINGENCIES ALLOWANCES/PROVISIONS POUR IMPREVUS
Total contingencies             Total cost
Base line costs   Physical contingencies                Expected price increases         Total imprévus        including contingencies
Categories                           Coûts de base       Imprévus quantités        Total   Prévisions augment. prix               (2+3)                   Coût total
Amount                 Amount                                 Amount                    Amount          y compris imprévus
%   Montant            %   Montant         (1+2)          %        Montant            %      Montant                (1+4)
(1)                    (2)                                     (3)                       (4)
Civil works,'  Total cost               -    10.78            10    1.08           11.86          20          2.36                      3.44                 14.22
Travaux de    CoÛt total
génie civil   Local/Mon. loc.          65      7.01           10    0.70            7.71          20          1.54                      2.24                  9.25
Foreign/Dev.étr.        35      3.77           10    0.38            4.15         20           0.82                      1.20                  4.97
Furniture      Total co0t
Mobilier       Coût total                      1.00           10    0.10            1.10          19          0.21                      0.31                  1.31
Local/Mon.loc.          40      0.40           10    0.04            0.44          19          0.09                      0.13                  0.53
Foreign/Dev.étr.        60      0.60           10    0.06            0.66          19          0.12                      0.18                  0.78
Equipment      Foreign/Devi6e6        100      4.64            10    0.46            5.10         19          0.96                      1.42                  6.06
Equipement    étrangères
Architec-      Total cost                      1.05           10    0,11            1.16          16          0.18                      0.29                  1.34
tur.l fees    Coût total
Honoraires    Local/Mon.loc.           30      0.31           10    0.03            0.34          16          0.05                      0.08                  0.39
Foreign/Dev.étr.        70      0.74           10    0.08            0.82          16          0.13                      0.21                  0.95
Specialist    Total cost                       7928                                                                                                            . 7.28  28  2.02  2.02  9.30
tervices       Coût total                      7.28° -
Assistance    Local/hMon.loc.          19      1.38             -      -             1.38         28          0.38                      0.38                   1.76
technique      Foreign/Dev.étr.        81      5.90            -       -            5.90          28          1.64                      1.64                  7.54
Fellowships   Total co0t                       0.71            -       -            0.71          28          0.20                      0.20                  0.91
Bourges de    Coût total
perfection-   Local/Mon.loc.           24      0.17             -      -            0.17          28          0.05                      0.05                  0.22
nement         Foreign/Dev.étr.        76      0.54             -      -            0.54          28          0.15                      0.15                  0.69
TOTAL          Local/Mon.loc.                  9.27                  0.77           10.04                     2.11                      2.88                 12.15
TForeign/Dev.étr.              16.19                  0.98          17.17                      3.82                      4.80                 20.99
TOTAL COST                                    25.46                  1.75          27.21                      5.93                      7.68                 33.14
GOUT TOTAL
Expected price increases are calculated on the basis of:/Les prévisions d'augmentation des prix sont calculées sur la base de:
(a) project completion by June 1984/achèvement du projet en juin 1984;
(b)  price increase rates corresponding to estimated progress of work per year/taux d'augmentation des prix
correspondant à l'estimation des progrès réalisés chaque année dans la construction;
(c) project base costs plus physical contingencies/coûts de base du projet plus imprévus quantités;
(d) the annual percentage increases indicated in para. 3.04/taux d'augmentation annuel des prix indiqués
au par. 3.04.



ANNEx 4.3
-44-
SENEGAL - TUIRD EDUCATION PROJECT / TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
FINANCING PLAN BY PROJECT COMPONENT AND CATEOORY/PLAN DE FINANCEMENT PAR ELEMENT DU PROJET ET PAR CATEGORIE
Total coet                      US$ millior/en millions de $EU
Project components                         Coût total
Eléments du projet                      (CFAF million/en      Total cost                SEC                           nt
millions de FORA)    Coût total        IDA     Speciaileessa
Action Fund  CCCE      Gouvernement
A. Primary education/Enseignement primaire
Civil works/Travaux de génie civil                            829               2.94          -       2.50       -             o.44
Architectural fees/Honoraires des architectes                  52               0.24        0.24       -         _
Furniture/Mobilier                                             69               0.27         0.04     0.23       -
Equipment/Equipement                                          125               0.57         0.12     0.45       -              _
Specialist services/Assistance technique                      340               1.55         1.55      -         -
Fellowships/Bourses de perfectionnement                        52               0.23         0.23      -         -
Refunding of PPF/Remboursemnnt des fonds PPF 1/                27               0.12        0.12       -         _
Subtotal/Total partiel                                    1,494               5.92         2.30     3.18       -             o.44
B. Technical education/Enseignement technique
Civil works/Travaux de génie civil                            874               3.33-        2.83      -         -             0.50
Architectural fees/Xonoraires des architectes                  42               0.21         0.21      -         -
Furniture/Mobilier                                             70               0.29         0.29      -         -
Equipment/Equipement                                          330               1.60         0.28     0.32       _
Specialist services/Assistance technique                      106               o.48        o.48       -         -
Refunding of PPF/Remboursement des fonds PPF                   19               0.09        0.09       -         _
Subtotal/Total partiel                                    1,441               6.oo         5.18     0.32       -            0.50
C. Vocational Training/Fornation professionnelle
Civil works/Travaux de g;2nie civil                            36               0.13         0.11      -         _             0.02
Furniture/UIobilier                                            26               0.10         0.10      -         -
Equipment/Equipement                                          220               î.00         1.00      -         _
Specialist services/Assistance technique                      267               1.21         1.21      -         _
Fellowships/Bourses de perfectionnement                        20               0.09        0.09       -         _
Subtotal/Total partiel                                      569               2.53        2.51       -         -            0.02
D. INDR
Civil works/Travaux de génie civil                            936               3.37        1.69       -       1.35           0.33
Architectural fees/Honoraires des architectes                  51               0.19         0.19      -         -             _
Furniture/Mobilier                                             69               0.26         -         -        0.26           -
Equipment/Equipement                                          165               0.75         -         -       0.75            -
Specialist services/Assistance technique                     422               1.92         0.98       -       o.94            -
Fellowships/Bourses de perfectionnement                        54               0.27         0.13      -        0.14           _
Refunding of PPF/Remboursement des fonds PPF 1/                29               0.14        o.14       -        -
Subtotal/Total partiel                                   1,726                6.90        3.13       -        3.44          0.33
E. ESGE
Civil works/Travaux de génie civil                           280                1.00        0.85       -        -             0.15
Architectural fees/Honoraires des architectes                  20               0.09         0.09      -         -
Furniture/Mobilier                                             23               0.08        o.o8       -        -              _
Equiprent/Equipement                                         102               o.47         o.47       -        -              _
Specialist services/Assistance techniquie                    272               1.24         1.24       -        -
Fellowships/Bourses de perfectionnement                        27               0.12        0.12       -        -              _
Subtotal/Total rartiel                                     724                3.00        2.85       -        -             0.15
F. Project Unit/Bureau du projet
Furnit'are/Mobilier                                             1               0.01         0.01      -         -              -
Equipment/Equirement                                           55               0.25         0.25      -         -             _
Specialist services/Assistance technique                      177               D.80         o.80      -         -               -
Refunding of PFF/Remboursement des fonds PPF 1/                 l               0.0s         0.0o5     -         -             _
Subtotal/Total partiel                                      244               1.11         1.11      -         -             -
Base cost/Coût de base                                         6,198              25.46        17.08     3.50      3.44          1.44
Physical contingencies/Imprévus quantités                        445               1.15         1.01     0.35      C.24           0.15
Price escalation/Augmentation des prix                           305               5.93         3.91     o.65      0.82          0.53
Total contingencies/Total imprévus                             750               7.68         4.92     1.00      1.06          o.68
TOTAL PROJECT COST/COUT TOTAL DU PROJET                        7,94T              33.14        22.00     4.50      4.50          2.12
1/ PPF - Project preparation facility/Mécanisme de financement de la préparation des projets



- 45 -
S0E004 - TRTRD EDUCATIO F0  ECT / TRDEIE E` PROJET ED=CATION                                                     m036 4.4
Page 1 ? 2
OTWAéRY OF E-EC ALIST SE0I000E0/TABLEAU  050NNAR  DS 4IALISTES D0E LASEIsTOit cE TEh'lTuT  
Referenae ta                                                               Total          Coat
papraisal                                                                =rn -        estimaateS
re-ort                                    Nuaber af        L-aal/       nanthi       (USt 'ODO)         Starting
Référence dans                               apecialieus  aEpatriate-       Total       Estimatios            date
Prajest aanpraeat       le roppart               Title              Nombre de    sénageIia/       nis-       dea aaûtt  (ea       Date da                   s-yamary Qb d-esriptias
Elemn-t do prajet      d'SFaatlan                Titre            apéciaiiates    Eapatriés       h-cme     mill-era de SE-u)    draerrage             De-cription a-nsaire dea tâahes 
I. PRM4ARY EDUCA-
TIO4JENSEIGNEIMEd
PE hAIRE
A. Intraduati n            02.02       Lanunge eduLuaiiaa ape-          1              E J           36            24o              10-79     Advice ou (a> ocardirnolua af lioguistia re-
-ationalcagaagea/                      cialist/Spéaiaiste do                                                                                  asarch and thi  preparatian uf aetiiaaa  laangages
Iatrdoducioe des                      l' enseigpen=ent des                                                                                    curricula, uad (b) aanitarhng of nxperinental
laeangeas tioaaaes                     lnanuca                                                                                                airsases.louner des aria cor  a laacoordination
dOne traraa  de rea-her    tgaatsse téa
bOraiotn des progranéea d'OsiSrisdeti  eaa
lan -ure  atioalaes, et b) i suivi et leicontrô-
la des cassesexp raéinentnales.
0.020       ... 1eca  edo...tare/Edu-        9              L           3214            010             10-79      Prcparnaeimaairti-aiingnnari
ateurE de l'enseigneL3-                                                                       2-         ln./Oabrer des pr-gr-rean  d',étéag  cpèri
nept générai                                                                                           neateuo ens atière ds languens ashoanies.
2.02       Ed-atioa evaluation               1              E              3             20              i-do     Advise an acthada ta e-aluate thO  achierenente
t                                                      de l'eoniaeoiaa dee aya-                                                                                aria aur las mottadea penmettdnt d' -aluer ls
tèmes éd-cetifs                                                                                        réaIstat.     o -t-nus Ca  le prBrqmsme e-p-raoet-
tal deaseigasment des Iangs- natonale.
2.02       Licgaiatia studies/Etu-   Sub-cntract            L            _              140             10-79      Ebna.rate baic (TOauaalear) and scientifio
des liageittiqu.e           Castrat de                                                                 (W01cf aad Pulaar) voantuirie ./Otarrtiac
sous-                                                                  é'un vocabclaire fondamenatai (Tooccalear) ns de
trsit:nce                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~voabuilaires ociersifiqol-o (Oaaicf ert noaler).
B. Pri-ary tsacher         2.03        Primary te-acer treaiig          1              E             48             320             10-79     Advise Director  f 00i4a00  education on coardi-
triainng/Formation                     specialiet/Opéceiaitst                                                                                 nation asd review of in-service and pre-service
des hn6tisuteure                      de la formation des Oaa-                                                                                teacher tra-inig programs./ocaar des aria ce
tituteurs                                                                                              au Dircate-r de l'seig-cnent prisaire sn-an-
tière de coordinatica et de rérinion deE pro-
graNece de formation des nit-re  en  exoice et
Oesa etagiatrea.
C. IN0EA                   2.04       Educatio -reearch spe-            -              E             36            24o             10-79      Co-rdin-te ed,antion r-esar-h and te reaponsible
ciaiset/Spécialhste de                                                                                 for tic direction af thi  ioetitote./Co-rdénaer
la recherche on éduaa-                                                                                 lcs Prara-   Oc recheraheen édu-ation etasu-
tion                                                                         xo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ar la respanoatilitn On i'inatitat.
2.04       Specialist iO  the con-           1              E             2              15             1C-82      Kvatante the effctirenss cf the co-mon -ci-
loatiao  of science edu_                                                                               cnc. ond serinaology rrc0reaa./Evalucr l'effica-
cation prcgrnam/Spécia-                                                                                aisé des ;rcgraee    cns  do science et dO
liste de i'érnluation                                                                                  teaiaaiagic.
tin scientifique
2.04        eneral educator/Ecuca-           1              E             3              20             10-80     R-ei-a of Krorih and Arabia  edacatian./RE ni-
tsar de l'ecseigaee   cntrr l'enseigemt coahoor ct orabe
générai
D. Ed-catib_ plo-         2.U0       Eeucation piancr/Pia-             1              E             21            140              7-79      A.riot Dirc-t-r DPP aoth prcpar-tio nf edoca-
ning/Planification                     aifdcateur de lcacsi-                                                                                  tion deeloagent plans osé projects./Prêter
de l'-enseignemeot                     gnenst                                                                                                 assistasco au Dtrerseur de la DEP pour l'élabo-
-atios de  -rtae  de plane dc déreappancc
en xatière d'iducatiot.
2.05        Ochl               1 xapper/Sp eB-                                            o E  IP  80    7-79     Advige cn primary achol loa-tia- ias i-e 2f
laire                                                                                                  svlo eur les lieu  d'implantation. des écolca
pri=ir-es   tenoct coopte de l'expaasion prO-
van de I'lesacaigeet primair-.
2.05       Education fiaac  spe-             1              E              3             20             10_-80     aalype educatioa cest ad fi.ance, psrticu-
cialiet/Specialiste do                                                                                 lar-y brdgetary coMstraisas ta  NEN snd MES./
fi-ancccact do 1'Odoca-                                                                                Anaiyser le coot ci le flaanccact de l'éduca-
tion                                                                                                   ticn, psrticulièrexent cu as qui c-oncrne 1s-
cantraiotes bodgstaires do tiEN et do :O.
2.05       Ed-ation sp-cialiats/             4              E             22            100             os-8d      Prepore an ercatooi fo-rsr educe5icn project /
Spécielister de l' dd-                                                                                 claicre . n O44irscac prujas éducation éver-
c-tion                                                                                                 tal.
II. TfCh-lCAI EDU-         2.08        T-chicia  ed-cation cnd          2              E             72             4o               3-dl      asdsist ih  thi  preparatio of 003S30  oschhao
oTbIoO/po0E3020100Bl                   teahie  trs-t ine  eSe-                                                                                pr-granE and ad,ise ca to                  cf e-
7000200   3400                         oii io  ss/pcaiacplayosniorie-ted t-ciai-io  troitiag pr-gr-
de l' saeco- ncot te-h-                                                                               i000ppr secondar-y -ahaial/C-t,br...r O l'éls-
niquese de la foras-                                                                                  boratlon de; pragoocacoe dlétaoos de i'E0ORT es
tion des enscignants                                                                                   do-ner dca avis uir la crdation dans les iyêcn-
secinitoce de proSrairs  dc f-oration Tisant h
prdparer tee techaicie-s a  c piai.
III. VOCAT-ONAL            2.1C       VoCatiloal -trinieg ad-           1 i                          49            390               7-79     Ac ot  chiof technic-l advie  asd advise  thc
PROAOION  ELTdIO                       f crmtion prof eos-n-                                                                                  ddnas a? traininC pro rams -ac cînioration
oellc                                                                                                  of standards of instr-ct_on./Fnirc foictlca de
c--seiller techuiq- crit ipal -praC d-e di-
rectears senéealais Ta CFPP et do CQfD et don-
0cr îes nus ia Stla oboardltian dcs pradrmesctnc
seignrenet.
2.10       V acti-acl i3toOracoei-                          E           102             (70              7-79      Oct-up tpaiaiga ir          - kraa l for   ild  ,'Mr  l
Osoorîcîsara de l'easct-                                              ittlDv,~~~~daotcoatO- ve  îradn- P./-c-
K-rfrleT profcssionnel                                                                                 tre et. place Oea programec  de formaasoa pour la
aaios-0'oeutre cualifiéc door les m. tiers do 114-
0    de a oécatqoe 0toJra   ot Ce Io l da--
aiososooil.                       a



-46 -
ANNE, 4.4
page 2
Reference io                                                              Total          Coot
oppreboal                                                                mat-        estimates
report                                  EIsber of        1tpai/        menthe       (Us$ '000)         Starting
2éférenoe do ns                             opocialista   Empatriotea       Total      Poolmatbont            date
Projeot caapoaent        le rapport              Titlo              Noabre de    Sdaégiabai/       moti-    cei coots (en          Date de                  S-myrs job drIrptbor          2
Elaeat do projet        d'évaluatton             Titre            spécialistes    Eopottiéo    hboea    milliersO de $E)    déaarrega                   Dsaaoiptioa  sosgaire dea tâcheS
2.10       Vocatioael truairg                -              E              6             50              1-80      Aaeist aith progreg deselopmeot fat CFPP aod
ogeoloiat/spédiolie-                                                                                  CtJ  aot ooeered by instrtonol staff./Con-
te- de la foroatioa                                                                                    tribuer à l'laboratlot de prog-aee  peou  le
profeoolooaelie                                                                                        CFPP at le CeID q.1 ne aont pas do ressort da
persoontel roselgorat.
2.12       Vocatioaa1 traeinig               2                            2             125              9-81       reegare gropaals for tf p establisheet of t
specilisbts/Spéci21is_                                                                                 Ntabional Voecttionaai Traiaing Office./Forgioer
tbo  do la foroUtboa                                                                                   des propositions et ove de la créatio  d'or
pro?essionaelie                                                                                         Offine nat loo-l de fosmutito proteasltanrile.
IV. I0DR                  2.15        Agrboaor         a                1             E             60             500              3-79     Artrai n iane     ol fst thol N d -d ardlsta
Dirpoteur de 1l'DR et caardoneor- les pro-
gra som do fOstaiOa, I 'oatreaiserarlea do
l'Inaeitua et les telotioaa eate Oea otplo-
2.15       igrlooltooaliae/Ioge-             I              E             60             500             5-79      Att se progrtu director sod elbor-te, with the
eer sgroao.e (CCCE)                                                                                    departeent hbrd, stady progesaU sad detergiae
sosedards of instractioa./Faire fonotion de di-
reoteur des programes et elaborer, da roo-ro
Sea  l  Clef do  eaeeee.r  progresso
d'etudes et letereoi tIra'e  atrea d' naeigae-
2.15       "ogessbte dae tagoa"(CCCE)   1                   E            48             340              3-79      Ac ta Dioaeoto  of field  trsinin  programt./
Fao te  ioon  de trespoatble des stages _su  le
2.15       Agobooltoroliatadlage-            2              E             72            510              10-79     Aoc os d           hpsr:eeao Otadg  and ast-sp oaatsg
eleocs agrono=es                                                                                       prograes la *1enerol agtonota, nupal engineering
snd sociol tols  fca/Fsire taontion de ohefa de
departemee ooet setote ea plate tes progrt_oes
de0oeorbmtoseenogrono=iegeoerole, genietoosal
2.15       ApoteolotooSr1 oatS               3              6             12            100              3-79      Assist in progo  dreelapet-,  i0 di,ibop ee
bro da la dorasstiso                                                                                    l'eleborolatc  des praeraseses ooorernaoa  les
sgricole  (CCCE)                                                                                        isoiplins  '00 enseigees par le personnel ti-
tolabere.
2.15       FIdologist/Pédolgoge              t              I              2              10            10-79      Aabsyee toil tests./Apyaisr tes eIl   ais de sol.
V. ESGE                    2.17       Mgnagement traiengO                              E             48 4o00                        10-79     Act as MGCR  dapsoty) director, coordinate pro
epelaliot/Spéoialiate                                                                                  grEm develop  ab./Fsire foeolîoa de dbrrtespe
de la faestito  doa. te                                                                                (adjloit) dr l'EdCE, coordonner l'ilaboration
dozoal  de la grotiso                                                                                 dOe  prograF-s  d'étbois.
2.17      MPoograst upeoialitab/             4              E            120            850             10-80      Art as departament htrde and/or give ingtruetio,
Spécialistes de la gea-                         t                              5                       devùlop tsaotig progrEgg sod perticopete i
tioa                                                                                                   coonsnting  erdk./Faire foeetion de chefa de dé-
parreab    t/saeaier  élaborer les pr-
gasera=id'itodro eIt p,rtioiper  ua. tra-asa des
2.17       Managoemt trainirg                2              E              6             45              3-80     Atsist aith geogras d-evlopment rod organize
oîeobattobo/dpcia tis-                                                                                 aroloara on speciallzationa not reverra Sp pet-
tee de ta tontattea                                                                                    amoal otaff./Coatribbur à l'éboration dea
d-ae le domeino  de la                                                                                 prOgre.es d'étides et à l'orgaansatioe de té-
geostion                                                                                                minaireasurleaospdoouboslootanaonmenseignéeo
par le personnel tltalulre.
2.17       Pers-.eel eaaageaaat              1             E/l.            6              40              3-g0     ltudpy ut apoliolo geegalese  roo     el Ianage-
ae geottua do p.etae tf ield  losrly as loool o..                                                                                 ditlos./Etodior tes
qseti-aoaae- ot-  b. groosd  pror
au Seergat afio d'dopter tee poogrsasso de
formation doan ce domaintas ouconditiose loapa
VTI  7R0J9T PE0ET/         2.18        Director/Directeur                1              i            66             170
Deputy Dirertor/Dbre-            1              E             48             220
teur adjoint
Aoouotsaot/Corpt.ol1              -             L             66              65
Assistant acotunt/                1             L             48              33
AtOe-tooptodir
Equipment prueurrorot            1              E             36             255
seieotiett/Spéituliste
do le passatian des
merotod
Eouiprent prp urement   1                                             r 48  65ojoct e902a:.otoetoa./aebiors du prujrO.
sreoioiott/Spéooiaiste
de la p.t-atloe d-s
garché s
Addlalotroolve uassit-            i             t             48              33
ant (pnoteoromet /basie-
tout apdminstrt  (p-
atiao d-e marbhés)
Clerk ef -orks/Empioyés          3              L            326             115             )
de b-teat
perrrturloa/Seordboroo           s3             L            156              70
1/ Asoorîso" te tùle expetotisons 52 the uppreu nisselasi On -te ev sfthe avetilailitr or tarai aportulstoto/Seonles irais 0-lns de lu missien d'drstosiso et en tenant suante
ie Os dispoololltd des srthlotl-teaolbgltbais
2_/ EPCt Ioptriate speIliîjit is erpestd te tr-in 10001 utoîf te port of hie task./tdauore piinlitaq                   e -patri iaest tett fdCorner te h-mologue.
lo1  t0ara specia ist./Sp.lcia iste sSnégalais.



SEIEGAL - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT / TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
SU6I-URY OF PELLOWSEIPS/TAWLEAU SOMMAIRE DES BOURSES DE FEREECTIONNEMENT
Reference in                                                                    Total                                    Basic
CP...t.                          sppraitl                 Field of study                          Local/        -n/       Total c-sta              Qualifications
EléComents                       report                                                          abroad       month       USS ('000)                of traineen               Starting
Elémen.ts                    Réfrence dans              Sujets d'études                         Locales/      Total      Coûts totaux             Qualifications                date                       Description
do Projet                       le rapport                                            Number      à lIS-       mois/      en millierm               fonda.entalei Dit. de
d'évaluation                                           Nombre   tr:t:ProN       hommes    de dollars EU             des boursiers              démarrage
Primary cducation
Enseignement primaire
A. Introduction of national                          IntroduotiSa  oU local . algu-gc                                                                                                           Toa.her, head.a.tera anSd  choul-
1onguagen/Intr.duction              2.02         curricula/Introduction des pro-         360       Lu'          180            60                  -                             3-80      inspectors concerned/!nstituteuro,
do6 langues  nitionalee                          gramms en langusa natien.lea                                                                                                               directeurs et inspecteurs concernée
B. Primr,y t.eacher training                         P Primary teocher training   )                                                            B( .A. in education    )                       ( Counterpart training
For-ation des icotitu-              2.03       (                              )            1       E             12            18        (                        )            10-80
teurs                                         ( Formction dea instituteurs )                                                             ( Licence en éducation )                        ( Formation de l'hcololgue
Upgrading primary school                                                                                                                ( Short seminars
2.03        teachers/Perfcoti.nneo.nt des          1,200      L             300          110                   _                            3-80
instituteurs                                                                                                                            ( Séminaires de courte durée
C. IMhADE                               2.04         Ed.c.tio..l research                       1      E             12            18          M.A  i  educatin                     10-80      Training local director  MNEADE
Recherches cri educatiun                                                                  Maitrine ene educatrion              Po8          ormation du directeur local de ItINEADE
D. Planning                             2.05          ducation  planning                       B1      E              °            1            . .in social science6                           Counterpart training
FJ-anificotioon2.05                             PlaniFinatino  de l'éducation                         1 E        10           15          Licencc en sciences sociales         10-79       Formation de l'homologue
2     E5 chool aapping                                                                          B.A.0  5                                         Courterpart training
2.05        Carte scolaire                             1      E              10           15          LiA;                                 10-79       Formation de lhomologun
Vocational trsining                                  Instrurtor training                        5      E             60             0          Technician                           10-79       Pedagogical training of locol staff/For-
Fermatios profesnieenells               2.10         Formation des instructeurs                                                    9           Technicien                                       maties pédagogique du pmrsonnel local -
CYPP/CQID
IIIDR      2.15         Agric.1t.,.                                9      E           ~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~216  270  M.A. in agriculture            07         Training 0F ffuture teaching staff
J-NDE                                   2.15         Agriculture                                9      E            216           270         NMtrise on agriculture               10-79       Formation du futur personnel enseignant
ESGE2'      Business  angenent                         8      E              96          120          M.A. in economics                     0          Training of future teaching staff
2.1E2. `    Gestion d',ntrepris..                                                                     Maitrise en économie                 10-0        Formation du futur personnel enseignant
'/ L =Training in thi  country/Fcrmation dans le pays.
2/ E   Training aùroad/Formation à l'tranger.



- 48 -
ANNEX 5.1
SENEiGAL - THIRD EDUCATION PBOJECT / TBOISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE / CALEN'DRIER D'EXECUTION
Calender Year/Année civile                         1978         1979         1980         1981        1982         1983         1984
QUarter,/__________________                                                                     __r__
i      I 2  3  4 1  2  3 41  2  3 4  1   2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  23  4  1  2  3  4
Primary education/Enseignement primaire
Civil wsorks/Travaux de génie civil                            qljr»  (//4X  l11l                     
Equipment-Furniture/Equipement-n.obilier
Specialist services/Asistance technique                                         ___
Fellow.hips/Bour.e.  de perfectionnement
Technical education/Enseignement technique
Civil works/Travaux de génie civil
Eauipment-Furniture/Equipement-Mobilier
Specialist services/Assistance technique
Vocational training/Formation professionnelle
Civil works/Travaux de génie civil
Equipment-Furniture/Equipement-2...obilier
Specialist services/Assistance technique
Fello-ships/Bourses de perfectionnement
Notional College of Agriculture/Institut 1a-
tional de developpement rural
Civil works/Travaux de génie civil                              il/I I           I ImIiI
Equipment-Furniture/Equipement-Mobilier                                               I
Specialist services/Assistance technique                          |
Fellowships/Bourses de perfectionnement
Management Training Institutes/cole supé-
rieure de gestion des entreprises                                                         4  
Civil works/Travaux de génie civil
Equipment-Furniture/Equipement-Mobilier
Specialist services/Assistance technique
Fellswehip./Boorses de perfectionnement
Legend/Légende:  ________   Architectural design work/Elaboration des plans architecturaux.
Preparation of bidding documents, tendering and contract award/Elaboration des documents d'appel d'offres,
__         soumission des offres, adjudication des marchés.
Civil works: construction/Travaux de génie%citil, construction
Equipment-Furniture: deliv.rry, installation/Equipement-Mobilier: livraison, installation
Spn.cialist services: duration of assignment/Assistance technique: durée de laffectation
Fellow1hips: duration of training/Bourses de perfectionnement- durée de la formation
Note: Detailed implementation schedules for each project component can be found in the working papers listed in Annex 6.
Le document de travail propre à chnque élément du projet présente un calendrier dPe.écution détaillé poc.r cet
élément. La liste des documents de travail est indiquée à 1'.nnexe 6.



- 49 -                               ANNEX 5.2
SENEGAL - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT / TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
IDA CREDIT ACCOUNT/COMPTE DU CREDIT IDA
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS/CALENDRIER DES DECAISSEMENTS
(Us$ '000/en milliers de dollars EU)
Accumulated    Undisbursed
Disbursements/    Balance/
Fiscal Yeær l/    Quarter/   Disbursements/  Décaissements    Solde non
Année budgétaire !/Trimestre   Décaissements       accumulés        décaissé
1980             1              650              650           21,350
2             300              950           21,050
3             4oo            1,350           20,650
4             600            1,950           20,050
1981             1              450            2,4oo           19,600
2           1,200            3,600           18,400
3           1,850            5,450           16,550
4           2,600            8,050           13,950
1982             1            2,600            10,650          11,350
2           2,700            13,350           8,650
3           2,700            16,050           5,950
4           14,oo            17,450           4,550
1983             1            1,300            18,750           3,250
2             600            19,350           3,250
3             550            19,900           2,100
4             550            20,450           1,550
1984              1             550            21,000           1,000
2             450            21,450             550
3             300            21,750             250
4             250            22,000               0
1/  Fiscal year:  July 1 - June 30
1/  Année budgétaire:  ler juillet - 30 juin



- 50 -                                    TANEX 5.3
SENEGAL - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT / TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
EEC CREDIT ACCOUNT/COMPTE DU CREDIT EEC
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS/CALENDRIER DES DECAISSEMENTS
(US$ '000/en milliers de dollars EU)
Accumulated    Undisbursed
Disbursements/    Balance/
Fiscal Year l/    Quarter/   Disbursements/  Décaissements    Solde non
Année budgétaire l/ Trimestre   Décaissements      accumulés        cLécaissé
1981                1              300            300             4,200
2             300            600             3,900
3             650          1,250             3,250
4           1,000          2,250             2,250
1982                 1           1,150          3,4o0             1,100
2           1,100          4,500                 0
1! Fiscal year: July 1 - June 30
1/ Année budgétaire: ler juillet - 30 juin



- 51-                            ANNEX 6
SENEGAL - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT / TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
LIST OF RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
LISTE DES DOCUMENTS ET DES DONNEES CLASSES DANS LE DOSSIER DU PROJET
1.    Sénégal: Développement de l'éducation; analyse et perspectives, Volumes
I, II, III, Paris, juin 1977.
2.    Education sector memorandum, August 10, 1977.
3.    Geoffrey Stevens: Etude de pré-investissement pour la généralisaticn
de l'enseignement primaire en l'an 2001, février/mars 1978.
4.    Robert Ricard, Jacques Coté, André Bourdeau:  Rapport de mission portant
sur le projet de création d'une école normale supérieure d'enseignement
technique et professionnel à Dakar, Sénégal, mars 1978.
5.    Guy Motel: Etude de pré-investissement sur Ja création d'un office na-
tional de formation professionnelle, Genève (BIT), 22 mars 1978.
6.    SATEC/SONED:  Avant-projet de l'Institut national agronomique au Sénégal,
janvier 1977.
7.    SATEC:  Institut national de développement rural (note complémentaire),
mars 1978.
8.    CEGIR:  Etude des besoins en formation et de perfectionnement en gestion
des cadres supérieurs et moyens des secteurs parapublic et privé.
9.    Chesneau, Verola, Castenet:  ENSET - Etude architecturale, esquisses.
10.    BHEC:  INDR - Etude architecturale, esquisses.
11.    A. Goudiabi:  Ecole normale régionale Kolda, étude architecturale, esquisses.
12.    Projet INDR, établissement d'enseignement supérieur agricole, document de
travail.
13.    Projet ESGE, établissement de formation des gestionnaires pour les entre-
prises privées et parapubliques, document de travail.
14.    Projet d'assistance à l'enseignement primaire et à la planification, docu-
ment de travail.
15.    Projet ENSET, établissement de formation des enseignants techniques et pro-
fessionnels, document de travail.
16.    Projet d'assistance au CFPP et au CQID, document de travail.



'l
t



SENEGAL                                                1                                      A RT N6A~\UY
THIRD EDUCATION  PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                               MAUPITAN4A 
- ner notronol  borerQIdre
~ Regionrrl copit.in                                          $r0                                                                                                                             ISU      GNAji.           ~ ta~            E
o    Dnpnrtmerrtal coptorls                                                                                                                                                                   SIE-~-
Envers                SI                            \~~~-----------.                                                                                                      SIERItA            COANT \611                     f 
Intfflemllent streamrs                                                                                                                                                                            U6t
£- GUIN 
R                    O      Ny-                          -Yr N.n
A //a n tic        i            0        N ~      ~     ~     /      c 
REGION 0F   .0 F~                                                                              -
I                                ~~~~~~~~~M'backe Cr-as~-
n  Diourbel            "           '--          -\--
Ocean                               MBu                                ca
Fatick.  -1--l'  -r                                                             - 
iR   E  G   1'/Q   N,    o   F)   s          N   E   J-_ A   LI O1J'   M
-14'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
len EDUCATION PROJECT:          ~          .--
<  UpprSnnondar-vTnchnicdSnicnolr  (                     o~~~~~~ 'Ys                                                               obcndo         S  iE       N     E    G    A    L
Aarinrrlraral ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~Ni, TencmbO Ohori 
2nd EDUJCATION ~PROJE~C -r
Lov-e Snnorrd.r Sihools ~4)         /    2                    ,.             ae                              r-..                                                               ) -  eR--  
Merc~~~~ant Marine Sehani  v.-..<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -.  -                                                      C4~~~~~~~(  ~~      0    R          E      NrT,AN -T_-~
_Qa)Ednaior, Tr.iir  om,-  . .                      )             Il                         14e,
P,Irrray Teacher Trairrirr C.II.en                                                                                                                                          r
V   T.c,.raifmcr)r Cereca (2)- CFPP, ColD                                                                                                                           NI-400< 00  CO-DA.
I                ~~~~~~0 F            cASA
JESUE,                                                                                                                                                                                    - ' ,ra,
A,ENSET                                   -,a ehor~rr                                                                                                               c,.-          * '            2        ~.
K;Iarraeîers    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~c            '''River.                                                                                                                                Kedoarjra
0                            7~~~~~~~~~~~--Ziguinchor                   k,.                                                                                                   S
an                     ~~~~~~~CAP$tIRN 
an                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~G UINEA  BI SSAUGu                                                                                                                                                               2
E'                                                                                                                                      N      E                                             o'11



