Document of          v    p X
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2477a-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
May 1, 1979
This document ha a retricted dilstbtio.n and my be ued by reclpimbs only in the performuwe of
their official duties. Its contests my not otherwise be dkibcoed widwht Wold Bak authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:       CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00           =  CFAF 220
CFAF 1 million   =  US$4,545.
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:  METRIC
1 meter (m)      2        = 3.28 square feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)       = 10.76 square feet (sq. ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2  = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) = 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE      -   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
EEC       -   European Economic Communities
E01P      -   Enseignement Moyen Pratique
ENSET     -   Ecole Normale Superieure de l'Enseignement Technique et
Professionnelle
ESGE      -   Ecole Superieure de Gestion des Entreprises
FAC       -   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED       -   Fonds Europeen de Developpement
INDR      -   Institut National de Developpement Rural
INEADE    -   Institut National d'Etude et d'Action pour le Developpement
de l'Education
IUT       -   Institut Universitaire de Technologie
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Senegal
Amount:             US$22 million equivalent    IDA Credit
US$4.5 million equivalent   EEC Special Action Credit
Terms:              Standard
Co-lender:          Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE, France)
Project
DescriLption:       The proposed project is designed to achieve the following
objectives: (i) in primary education, the project will
provide increased quality and allow preparation of cost-
reduction measures to help establish a solid base for its
expansion, especially in rural areas; in addition to
the proposed new teacher training college, seminars will
be planned to upgrade about 1,200 headmasters and teachers,
as well as to prepare about 360 teachers for instruction
in local languages:  (ii) in technical education, the
project will provide increased capacity and quality of
teacher training through the proposed new college enrolling
340 students; provision of equipment for existing technical
schools will allow improved practical training and higher
quality output of the 1,500 students enrolled; (iii) in
vocational training, additional construction and equipment
at existing centers will allow increased enrollments and
improved training quality, and increase the supply of
skilled workers for the modern industrial sector by about
500 annually; and (iv) in university-level training,
proposed institutions will help meet Senegal's critical
need for qualified technical and managerial manpower
through their annual output of about 40 agriculturalists
and 40 business managers; also, seminars will be organized
for upgrading annually about 1,000 middle- and high-level
managers of para-public and private enterprises. Addition-
ally, the project will produce significant benefits in
institution-building by providing improved capacity for
project execution, for educational research and planning,
and for coordination of vocational training.
No difficulties are expected in physical implementa-
tion because project preparation, particularly architectural
designs, is well advanced. Staffing needs for new institu-
tions are expected to be met from project-financed technical
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
assistance and fellowships, as well as from other external
sources. There is some risk that Government will find
difficulty in providing budgetary support required for the
new institutions; however, their priority is recognized
clearly by the Government, and they are likely to be
adequately supported unless the Government finds itself in
the most adverse financial conditions.
Estimated
Project Cost:       The cost of the proposed project (net of taxes and duties)
is estimated at US$33.1 million equivalent, including
foreign costs of about US$20.9 million (about 63%). A
summary table of cost estimates is shown below:
Local   Foreign   Total
(in US$ million)
Primary education,
educ. research
and planning                        2.8       3.1      5.9
Technical education                   2.5       3.5      6.0
Vocational training                   0.2       2.3      2.5
National College of Agriculture       2.6       4.3      6.9
Management Training Institute         0.8       2.2      3.0
Project administration                0.4       0.7      1.1
Base cost                             9.3      16.1     25.4
Contingencies
-  physical (average 7%)            0.8       0.9      1.7
-  prices (average 22%)             2.1       3.9      6.0
2.9      4.8       7.7
Total project cost                   12.2      20.9     33.1
Financing Plan:    The project will be financed from the following sources:
(i) the proposed IDA Credit of US$22 million equivalent
will meet about 66% of total project costs net of taxes;
(ii) a credit of US$4.5 million from the EEC Special Action
Fund will finance construction and equipment of the pro-
posed Primary Teacher Training College, and new equipment
for the secondary technical school Lycee Peytavin; (iii) a
loan of about FF 19 million (US$4.5 million equivalent)
from CCCE will help finance the proposed National College
of Agriculture, jointly with IDA for civil works and in
a parallel arrangement for all equipment and furniture,
and a proportion of the required technical assistance,
consulting services, and fellowships; and (iv) a Govern-
ment contribution of US$2.1 million equivalent will help
finance the local element of project costs.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:           FY80      FY81      FY82      FY83     FY84
Annual          2.0       6.0      9.5       3.0       1.5
Cumulative      2.0       8.0     17.5      20.5      22.0
Estimated Project
Completion Date:   June 1984
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 2270a-SE dated May 1, 1979.
Map:       IBRD No. 3236 R3






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of US$22 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, and a
proposed EEC Special Action Credit, expressed in the currencies of the nine
EEC Member States equivalent to about $4.5 million on the terms agreed with
the EEC, 1/ to the Republic of Senegal to help finance a Third Education
Project. Additional financing for the project will be provided by a loan of
US$4.5 million equivalent from the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) to help finance the proposed National College of Agriculture;
the CCCE loan will have a term of 20 years including five years of grace, with
interest at 4.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 2/
2.        A report entitled "The Economy of Senegal" (212-SE) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on September 10, 1973. Since then, a series of
preparatory sector missions, a basic economic mission, and most recently a
public finance mission have visited Senegal to update the macroeconomic data
base and to review the country's development strategy. The following para-
graphs reflect the findings of these missions, whose conclusions will be
included in a basic economic report now being finalized. Updated country
data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Senegal is situated at the extreme western part of the African
continent. In the traditional sector of the economy, the mainstay is millet
cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic consumption, and ground-
nut cultivation for exports. Soils are generally poor, and variations in
rainfall periodically cause severe food shortages in the months between the
sowing and harvesting of the next crop. The large river basins -- some of
them fed in the tropical rain zone -- have so far been exploited only margin-
ally. Land distribution is fairly even. In the western part of the country
arable land is becoming scarce, but in the extreme south-east some good land
is still available. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in
1/   These are standard IDA terms except that currencies will be repaid in
the amounts disbursed.
2/   The text of this Section is substantially unchanged from the President's
Report for the Water Supply Engineering Project which was distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 12, 1979.



- 2 -
Dakar, a well organized city of about 1 million inhabitants. The economic
base of Dakar consists of excellent port facilities, an industrial sector
which is turning gradually toward exports, and a small but fast-growing
tourism industry. Senegal's per capita GNP for 1977 was estimated at US$420,
but average income in Dakar is roughly five times as high as in the country-
side.
4.        During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stag-
nation as real output increased less rapidly than population growth (the
latter now estimated at 2.7 percent per annum), and per capita GNP declined.
Two factors were responsible for this situation. First, with independence,
Senegal lost its privileged position as the center of French West Africa,
and therefore had to adjust to reduced economic, administrative and political
circumstances. Secondly, in the latter part of the decade, groundnut produc-
tion (representing the principal export factor) fell due to unfavorable
weather and declining export prices.
5.        In the 1970s, a new stage in Senegal's development set in, charac-
terized by a higher rate of private and public investment. Private invest-
ments, which had hovered around 4 percent of GDP in the late 1960s, rose to
7.5 percent during the period 1970-75, while public investments increased
from around 5.5 percent of GDP in 1972 to almost 7 percent during 1973-75.
In spite of this rise in the rate of investment, output and incomes were
depressed in 1972 and 1973 by the Sahel's most severe drought in over a
century, which brought a decline in real national income. Thereafter, when
weather conditions improved and purchasing power of the rural population was
substantially restored, both agricultural and industrial production increased
markedly. However, in 1977 the country suffered another severe drought, the
magnitude of which is reflected in the variations in groundnut crops; from
a historical record of 1.45 million tons in 1975/76 (more than double the
average for the 1968-73 period), output fell to less than 0.6 million tons in
1977/78; it recovered to about 1.0 million tons in 1978/79, ushering in
a new phase of economic recovery. Despite these substantial fluctuations in
agricultural production, industrial output (excluding groundnut processing)
grew fairly evenly by about 5 percent a year. GDP in constant prices in-
creased at an average annual rate of 4 percent between 1973 and 1977 thanks
to the recovery from the earlier droughts, but in 1978 it is estimated to have
declined by 14 percent reflecting the effect of the 1977/78 drought.
6.        The strong physical fluctuations in production were aggravated by
price fluctuations of Senegal's major export and import commodities. In 1974,
the terms of trade improved by over 21 percent, mainly due to exceptionally
high prices for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity. However,
in 1975 export prices for both phosphate rock and groundnuts declined sharply,
and since then the terms of trade have stayed well below the level of the
early 1970s. These wide international price fluctuations had serious conse-
quences on domestic prices, public finance, and balance of payments.
Public Finance
7.        After some early hesitation, the Government responded with flexi-
bility in adapting its policies to changes in the economic environment. In



- 3 -
1974, Government initially tried to maintain stable domestic prices in the
face of skyrocketing food import prices; however, by the end of that year
when it became clear that the costs of this policy were becoming excessive,
several changes were made. Particularly, in an attempt to reduce subsidies
and put public finances on a sounder footing, Government raised the prices
for rice, sugar, and groundnut oil by 40 to 90 percent. In compensation,
government salaries were raised on average by 16 percent, with actual
increases ranging from 60 percent for the lower grades to 3 percent for
the higher ones. The minimum wage was increased by 47 percent, thus raising
the entire wage scale of the private sector. Average consumer prices rose
by some 28 percent in six months' time, but Government managed to stabilize
prices almost completely in the year thereafter. At the end of 1974, the
Government also increased producer prices for groundnuts to bring them closer
to world prices which were at that time particularly high. The loss of
revenue to the Treasury because of this latter step was expected to be com-
pensated in large part by additional revenues from the phosphate mine in
which Government increased its participation while levying an 80 percent
tax on the excess profits accruing from the quadrupling of export prices
of phosphates in 1972/73. In 1974 and 1975, Government did indeed receive
high revenues from phosphates amounting to roughly US$45 million a year.
8.        These steps led to a net increase in public savings after debt
service from a yearly average of US$25 million during 1971 through 1973, to
US$46 million during 1974 through 1976. This high level of public savings was
doubtless an important factor in stimulating Government to increase public
investment outlays from a yearly average of US$24 million to US$49 million
during the same two periods. In addition, purchases of equity and lending to
domestic enterprises by Government increased sharply from a past average of
US$5 million to US$62 million in FY73/74, and about US$32 million in 1974/75
and 1975/76, mainly because of increased participation in the phosphate mine
and the acquisition of two foreign-owned public utility companies. The
combined capital outlays of the Government were thus substantially in excess
of public savings, and were financed in large part through medium-term foreign
bank loans. As a consequence, foreign debt service carried by the Central
Government increased from US$8 million in 1972/73 to US$38 million in 1975/76,
representing about 10 percent of Central Government revenues.
9.        A sudden fall in world phosphate prices in 1976 eliminated Govern-
ment revenues from this source. As a consequence, Government increased taxes
in the following year to derive additional yearly proceeds of about US$37 mil-
lion; these tax measures, combined with a substantial restraint on recurrent
expenditures, gave Government an opportunity to undertake some new commercial
borrowing for its investment program. When it became clear that the 1977/78
crop would be a complete failure, Government substantially increased current
expenditures to avoid famine in the countryside by importing more cereals
and acquitting farmers' debts; however, the Government did not reduce its
investment program which was kept going through heavy commercial borrowing
amounting to US$134 million in 1977 and US$187 million in 1978. As a conse-
quence, in 1980/81 when grace periods are over, debt service obligations of
the budget will reach about US$145 million (or 18.4 percent of Government
revenues). To cover this debt service and still leave a sufficient national



- 4-
contribution to the public investment program, the tax ratio would have to be
increased from 23 percent of GDP in 1976/77 to 25 percent in 1979/80, even if
growth of recurrent expenditures is held, for a number of years, at rates well
below existing trends. This would require substantial restructuring of
current budget expenditures so as to protect such high priority outlays as
road maintenance, education, and public health.
Balance of Payments
10.       The balance of payments came under heavy pressure in 1973 because
of low groundnut exports and increasing imports of foodstuffs and equipment
goods, and net foreign reserves of the country fell to minus US$15 million.
In the following years the deficit on current transactions was reduced, but
outflows of private capital related to the acquisition of foreign enterprises
continued, and net foreign reserves declined further to minus US$48 million at
the end of 1975. This deficit was financed partly by US$30 million in IMF oil
facilities, and the rest by increasing the indebtedness of the mostly foreign-
owned commercial banks to their parent companies.
11.       Since then, the situation has not improved.  In 1976, the state
marketing board purchased the large groundnut crop at the high producer prices
established in 1974, injecting massive purchasing power into the economy,
while Government continued expansive monetary and budgetary policies. Both
measures substantially increased import demand. However, export revenues
stagnated since groundnut prices were 25 percent below the 1974 peak, and
phosphate prices were down by 35 percent. Even though there were price
declines of the same order in some of Senegal's food imports, the net effect
on the terms of trade was heavily negative. The year 1977 did not bring any
substantial improvement, although the 1976/77 groundnut crop was good. In
December 1977 net foreign assets were down to minus US$53 million.
12.       The 1977/78 drought caused a loss of US$200 million in groundnut
revenues, creating a deficit on current account of US$280 million as compared
to US$95 million in the previous year. Thanks to the heavy commercial
borrowing, the impact of this huge trade deficit on net foreign assets
could be limited to US$91 million, US$30 million of which was financed 'Ly
drawings on the IMF compensa.-y facility.
Prospects and Creditworthiness
13.       The Government's long-range development strategy continues to be
based on the promotion of agriculture and export-oriented activities. The
agricultural program calls for development of areas less affected by rainfall
fluctuations (Casamance and Eastern Senegal) where cash crops other than
groundnuts can be grown. Irrigated cereal production is being developed in
the arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River. This policy
will make the country less dependent on the uncertainties of its climate and
world market prices, and reduce the heavy burden of food imports; but since
the majority of the rural poor remain involved in groundnut farming, Government
is continuing its efforts to promote animal traction, treated seeds, fertilizer



- 5 -
use, and crop rotation to raise the productivity of farmers. The Government
also aims at long-term improvement of the balance of payments mainly through
modest expansion of phosphate mining, and development of light export in-
dustries and tourism; moreover, contracts have been signed for construction
of a ship-repair yard, and plans for a phosphoric acid plant are in an
advanced stage. With chances for export growth in the groundnut sector
limited, and because of relatively high production costs in light industry, no
spectacular improvements in the balance of payments can be expected. Govern-
ment is counting heavily on the implementation of a number of large invest-
ments, either in irrigation to diminish the heavy dependence on rice imports,
or in export-oriented manufacturing industries. In view of the risks that
Government would have to assume on the abovementioned investments, a cautious
view of the long-term outlook is warranted. Even to achieve an economic
growth rate of not more than 4 percent a year as compared to an official
objective of 5.8 percent, the resource gap will keep growing, although still
within manageable limits.
14.       In the medium term, Government will need a particularly large pro-
portion of foreign capital in the financing of new projects so as to allow
implementation of a high public investment program. High public investments
are essential for Senegal's future development, because total investments have
to increase over the next several years to bring the country back on a satis-
factory growth path. Moreover, the share of the public sector in total
investments will have to go up, partly because of the critical dependence of
the economy on acceleration of publicly financed irrigation, partly because of
the increased share in ownership Government has recently acquired in the most
important sectors of the economy, and partly because of the low propensity of
the private sector to invest due to high production costs in Senegal.
15.       This need for high public investments conflicts with existing trends
in public savings. Despite a fast growth in Government receipts, public
savings after debt service stagnated at a low level in the past, and are
expected to become heavily negative in 1978/79, a period with low receipts due
to the depressed economic condition in the previous drought year. Interest
and amortization on the heavy debt contracted during this drought year will
absorb most of the savings the budget can possibly generate in the next four
to five years. Considering the already very high level of taxation in Senegal,
further increases in the tax burden, while unavoidable, will necessarily
remain limited, so that even under the best of circumstances, in the medium
term public savings cannot be expected to contribute more than 15-20 percent
towards the financing of new public investment. In the near term, prospects
are worse, and foreign donors will have to finance even higher proportions of
project costs.
16.       To avoid a further increase of the debt service burden, Government
should not, for some years, contract new commercial loans to finance projects
that do not generate sufficient funds for the repayment of these loans.
Higher debt service will necessarily compete with other recurrent expenditures
such as the maintenance of existing infrastructure and of new development
projects, types of expenditures which already cause budgetary problems for
the Government. As a consequence, it is almost certain that a considerable



- 6 -
number of projects currently under consideration which are not directly
productive will have to be postponed. Government will also have to avoid
excessive financial risks on productive projects by being more selective in
its participations and guarantees on loans contracted by mixed enterprises,
and may even have to consider disengaging itself entirely from some of these
ventures. A better economic performance in the parapublic sector should be
a key ingredient in the fiscal program Government is presently designing.
17.       The balance of payments situation is dominated by the need for a
better foreign reserve position. In the short term, Senegal can afford low
levels of foreign reserves through its membership in the West African Monetary
Union which provides for pooling of foreign reserves, and whose currency is
guaranteed by the French Government. Moreover, as the experience in 1978 has
shown, IMF and STABEX facilities provide a sufficient buffer for the periodic
drops in export revenues linked with droughts and fluctuations in world market
prices. However, Senegal's negligible contribution to the Union's foreign
reserves for an extended period may harm this regional institution, whose
existence is a cornerstone for Senegal's creditworthiness. An expected
improvement in the public savings performance, together with continuing
export-oriented policies, is expected to bring about a recovery of this
unsatisfactory foreign reserve position.
18.       The ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor serv-
ices increased rapidly from 6 percent in 1976 to a projected 15 percent in
1979, a level which the Bank considers close to the maximum allowable in
Senegal's present economic situation. This steep increase is mainly due
to an increase of commercial borrowing from about 25 percent of total bor-
rowing during 1973-76 to an average of 64 percent during 1977 and 1978. Only
with much greater reliance on concessionary capital flows will Government be
able to keep the external debt service ratio around the present level. This
might require a reduction in foreign borrowing over the coming years, espe-
cially if access to concessionary capital remains limited.
19.       On the assumption that Government takes steps to maintain a balance
between public investments and public savings, Senegal would remain credit-
worthy for some lending on IBRD terms. The Government has demonstrated its
commitment to development by increasing public investments between 1970/71
and 1977/78 by 20 percent per year in current prices. The Government has
also demonstrated its capacity to respond adequately to the problems which
its vulnerable economy is bound to encounter periodically. In August 1978,
the National Assembly was called from summer recess to approve a new fiscal
package amounting to US$20 million, and Government is presently working (in
cooperation with IMF and the Bank Group) on a new set of fiscal measures to
redress the public finance situation. Government has committed itself to
bring the level of public savings after debt service to at least 15 percent
of public investment over the next few years. Senegal has reasonable pros-
pects for long-term diversification and growth. Its access to short-term
financing facilities and membership in the West African Monetary Union also
reduce the risks associated with economic fluctuations. However, lenders
(including the Bank Group) should provide a large part of their assistance
on concessionary terms in order to avoid a further rapid buildup of debt
service, and should be prepared to finance a considerable part of the
local costs of projects.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
20.       The Bank Group has had 40 operations in Senegal to date.  Total
outstanding amounts to US$208.7 million, including twenty IDA credits,
fourteen Bank loans, two blends of Bank and IDA funds, three IFC operations,
and one blend of Bank and IFC funds. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of March 31, 1979, and
notes on the implementation of ongoing projects. Execution of these projects
is progressing reasonably well, except that some operations have been affected
by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's continuing dif-
ficult public finance situation, as well as by lack of qualified local staff
for key positions. The Government is well aware of the need to reduce delays
caused by these problems, and particularly of the importance of assuring good
management supervision of projects in all sectors. In this respect, the Para-
Public Sector Technical Assistance Project approved by the Executive Directors
in January 1978 is designed to initiate measures necessary to resolve on a
sectorwide basis some of the issues regarding the general situation of the
country's finances and Government control of public enterprises and mixed
companies, particularly those which are channels for Bank Group assistance.
In addition, the Government has recently created an Interministerial Committee
with representation of foreign aid donors, to expedite preparation of new
investment projects, and to identify bottlenecks in project execution and take
remedial action. The work of this committee has already begun to produce some
positive results.
21.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to Senegal
over 1977-81 will stay at around 16 percent, of which roughly 45 percent in
IDA financing. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed debt was 20
percent in 1976, and will slowly start to surpass that level reaching about 22
percent in 1980. The Bank Group's share in public debt service is expected to
increase from 3.8 percent in 1976 to about 9 percent by 1985, a rise which is
mainly due to the increase in Bank loans and credits from 21 percent of
Senegal's outstanding disbursed debt to the Bank Group at end-1976 to about 53
percent by 1985.
22.       The objectives of Bank Group lending in Senegal fall under five main
headings. First, we continue to give priority to rural development, includ-
ing development of irrigation in the Senegal River Valley Region and intensi-
fication of groundnut production and diversification into new crops and new
regions. As in the past, we would expect our agricultural lending over the
next few years to exceed one-third of the total. Secondly, we have supported
diversification of the economy by lending to the growing industrial sector
through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement de l'Industrie
et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development finance company established with
Bank Group assistance in 1974, and through an ongoing tourism project.
Thirdly, we have supported modernization and expansion (where economically
desirable) of the country's infrastructure. An engineering project approved
by the Board in April 1979 will pave the way for Bank Group involvement in
the water supply and sanitation sector by financing studies and technical
assistance for a water supply project in eleven secondary centers. Fourthly,
Government has asked us to help re-orient and expand the country's education



- 8 -
system at all levels, by meeting in particular the needs for trained high- and
middle-level technicians and managers in the modern sector and in agricultural
development activities, and by increasing access to primary level education,
particularly in rural areas. The project proposed in this report is designed
to meet these objectives. We remain conscious of the need to support other
projects in the social services sector within the limits of the Government's
ability to bear the recurrent costs involved, and have started preparing an
integrated food and nutrition project. Finally, we are helping Government
increase its absorptive capacity for planning, executing, and managing develop-
ment projects through institutional support within individual Bank Group
projects, and through broader efforts such as the Technical Assistance Project
for the Para-Public Sector. Several Bank Group operations which fit into the
overall objectives of the Government's economic strategy, notably in tourism,
telecommunications, port infrastructure, loans to SOFISEDIT, as well as a
second aviation project approved by the Executive Directors earlier in FY79,
have the additional merit of generating revenues for the Senegalese Treasury.
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
23.       Formal education in Senegal is modeled after the traditional French
system, and has for a long time been oriented to preparing students for higher
education and public service. Since 1970, several major reform proposals for
restructuring the system have been considered, but Government has chosen to
follow a course of gradual change; most of the impact of this change has been
felt at the secondary level, where enrollments in science and technical
streams have been increasing significantly (para. 28).
Access to Education
24.       In 1977, about 32% of the 7-12 age group were enrolled in primary
schools; this proportion covers as many as 60% of children in the urbanized
Cap Vert region, as against only about 12% in some of the poorest rural areas
where the Muslim influence is strong and many children attend traditional
Koranic schools. In recent years, growth in primary school enrollments in
remote rural areas has levelled off primarily because of low interest of
parents and Government's financial constraints; and it is becoming increas-
ingly important to investigate possible relationships between the formal
school system and traditional Koranic education.
25.       Access to lower secondary schools is controlled by a selective
entrance examination, and limited to about 20% of primary school graduates
mostly from urban areas. The Government is experimenting with a system of
non-formal rural youth training centers which would attempt to provide other
primary school leavers or youth who have never attended school with some
pre-employment skills in agriculture, rural trades, and an understanding of
the basic concepts of health and nutrition.



-9-
Education for Women
26.       The Government is encouraging female participation in the education
systems, and in 1977 the enrollment of girls was about 40% of the primary
school age group. At the secondary level, girls account for a lower share of
enrollments -- about 33% of the total in lower secondary schools, and about
26% at the upper secondary level. Nevertheless, enrollments of girls in the
formal school system are expected to continue increasing at a higher rate than
that for boys. Vocational training schools enroll girls mainly for training
in "traditional" female occupations, particularly in the service sector.
Quality of Education
27.       The Government has always had a great concern for the quality of
education, and strives for high standards for teachers at all levels. At the
primary level, all teachers are Senegalese, and the proportion of those who
graduate from the five existing training colleges has been increasing. Many
teachers require upgrading, but in-service teacher training programs are
organized infrequently and need improvement. At the secondary and higher
levels, education standards are maintained by employing large numbers of
expatriate teachers and instructors, pending training of qualified Senegalese
teachers.
28.       The Government's desire to maintain standards is running into
difficulties because of an increasing demand for education, and the severe
financial constraints to providing this education, particularly in view of
the rising local costs of French technical assistance. Urban classes are
overcrowded, there are shortages of qualified teachers especially in rural
areas, and school supplies are insufficient and inadequate. As a consequence,
the quality of education, particularly in primary and lower secondary schools,
is suffering. At the same time, the curricula are largely academic and
oriented toward the needs of urban life and the requirements of entrance
examinations for the next level. At the upper secondary level, the Govern-
ment' s continuing efforts to encourage students to select science and tech-
nical subjects have been successful, and about half of the 2,500 annual
graduates now obtain diplomas with these specializations compared with 30%
in 1970. However, the general lycees offering traditional programs are
still the preferred choice of most lower secondary school graduates, and
attract the most qualified students. The two technical lycees enroll about
1,500 students, and offer courses preparing for the technical baccalaureate
with specialization in economics, commercial skills, industrial skills,
mathematics and technology, which prepare students for further studies as well
as for direct employment. Most of the programs, however, are theoretical,
and practical workshop instruction is insufficient.
Financing of Education
29.       Recurrent expenditures for education represent almost 25% of total
Government expenditures and about 5% of GDP, which is high, but not uncommon
for West Africa. At present, 40% of the recurrent education budget is spent



- 10 -
on primary education, mostly for teacher salaries. Additional recurrent
expenditures are financed by external aid (mainly from France) in the form of
teachers and scholarships. Public education is free at all levels. The
average annual salary per teacher (approximately US$4,000) is high for West
Africa. Annual costs per pupil are also high: about US$118 for primary
education, and about US$480 for upper secondary technical schools. It is
difficult to foresee any improvement in the level of these costs for the near
future, given the continuing need for expensive expatriate technical assistance
and the increasingly high costs of building construction. However, the
Government is becoming very aware that the feasibility of expanding education
will depend largely on measures to reduce recurrent costs, and to adapt the
system to local conditions. Several studies to this end are underway or
planned and the Government appears willing to consider introducing some of the
changes in teaching methods and school organization that will be required, but
preparation of appropriate measures will require considerable time (paras. 34
and 46).
30.       The total investment cost for education projects included in the
Fifth Plan (1977-81) is about US$97 million equivalent, of which 80% is
expected to be provided by foreign donors. The most important sources of
financial and technical assistance have been French and Canadian bilateral
aid, the EEC, and the Association.
Manpower and Employment
31.       In 1976, Senegal's working population numbered about 1.7 million
persons, mostly working in rural areas and engaged in farming. Less than 10%
of the active population (about 140,000 workers) are employed in the modern
sector; of these, about 80,000 are employed in the private sector mostly as
unskilled or semi-skilled labor, about 45,000 in the civil service, and about
15,000 in parastatal organizations. About 200,000 persons work in the infor-
mal sector, mainly as artisans and traders.
32.       The modern sector is expected to provide about 13,000 new jobs
annually over the next five years, but in the same period, 28,000 students
with at least a primary school certificate will enter the job market every
year. This situation is leading to a general improvement in the education
level of workers, particularly among those joining the informal sector. At
the same time, however, there are serious shortages of lower- and middle-level
personnel with either basic technical skills or with some training in bookkeep-
ing, storekeeping, and other clerical skills. Important reasons for this are
the shortage of vocational training facilities, in particular skilled worker
training for the modern industrial sector, and the chronic shortage of trained
and experienced Senegalese managerial and supervisory personnel. There are
now about 2,000 middle- and high-level managers, many of whom need skill up-
grading; the need for new managerial staff is estimated at about 100 annually,
for whom no adequate management training programs are available in Senegal.
Government's Educational Objectives
33.       The Government's policy for developing the education sector has
four major objectives: (i) to expand the coverage of primary education in



- 11 -
rural areas; (ii) to satisfy at least part of the social demand for student
places at the post-primary level; (iii) to make the education system more
responsive to the specialized manpower requirements of the modern sector; and
(iv) to strengthen the capacity for educational research and planning. These
objectives are sound, and plans for achieving them are at varying stages of
implementation.
34.       For primary education, the problem of financial constraints has
forced the Government to control expansion, and to close some schools with low
enrollments; thus, even if the annual growth rate is maintained at the present
4%, primary education would be available to only about 50% of the age group by
the year 2000. Important elements of plans for improving the quality and
coverage of education provide for instruction in local languages in the first
years of primary school rather than the French now used, organizing of effec-
tive teacher training and upgrading programs, and implementation of cost-
reduction measures.   As regards secondary education, especially in science
and technical subjects, enrollments are expected to increase by about 13%
annually. To reach this target, the Government is planning to open an upper
secondary technical school in each of the country's four regional capitals,
and to increase teacher training. It also plans to establish employment-
oriented technician training programs, and to improve the quality of practical
instruction. At the same time, Government will expand specialized manpower
training by increasing the number of technical upgrading courses, and offering
preemployment courses in major industrial trades at the existing vocational
training centers.   The high-level manpower needs of the modern industrial and
agricultural sectors will be met by new institutions (the National College of
Agriculture and the Management Training Institute) planned for establishment
under the proposed project (paras. 52 and 55). Overall, the Government recog-
nizes that a considerable research and planning capacity will be required to
achieve its stated educational objectives. It therefore intends to strengthen
the existing educational planning section within the Ministry of National
Education, and more importantly, to create under the proposed project a
National Institute of Education where all ongoing work on educational research,
evaluation, and curriculum development will be concentrated (para. 45).
The Bank Group's Role in the Education Sector
35.       In supporting the Government's education and training programs,
the Bank Group has followed two approaches: (i) lending for development of
important sub-sectors of the education system, to which end it has helped
finance two projects under Credit 253-SE (US$2.0 million, 1971) and Credit
530-SE (US$15 million, 1975); and (ii) lending for training components in
projects in other sectors, particularly agriculture, highways, railways,
telecommunications, and managerial staff for the para-public sector.
36.       The First Education Project was designed to improve the quality of
technical and agricultural education, and to expand the supply of technicians
for industry and commerce. The main component (representing 80% of total
project costs) was construction and equipment for a post-secondary technician
training institute (Institut Universitaire de Technologie - IUT); the project



- 12 -
also included upgrading of an agricultural technician school, additional
equipment for two upper secondary technical schools, and a reorganization
study for the Merchant Marine School. The project was satisfactorily com-
pleted by end-1976, after implementation had encountered some delays caused
by differences between the Government and the Association about appropriate
design standards. The IUT is a well-managed institution which provides
high-quality training programs and is satisfactorily serving the needs of
modern sector employers.
37.       An Audit Report prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department
was issued on October 4, 1978. The report concludes that the project was
well aligned with Senegal's education priorities, and that it had been
generally successful in its main objective of providing good physical plant
as a basis for improving the training of technical manpower. The report
acknowledged that it was too early to evaluate the educational impact of the
project's contribution to the various schools assisted, although it was
suggested that the IUT and the agricultural technician school would benefit
from some review of their functioning, especially in light of their high per
student recurrent costs. With implementation of the technical education
component of the proposed third project, the number of qualified entrants
for IUT would increase substantially, and recurrent per student costs can
be expected to decline.
38.       The ongoing Second Education Project approved in early 1975, is
intended to reinforce and expand the scope of the first project in meeting
modern sector manpower needs through construction and equipping of science
and technology teaching facilities for 11 existing and four new lower secon-
dary schools; and rehabilitation or provision of new vocational centers for
industrial, marine and hotel/tourism training. The project also supports the
experimental first phase of a national program to establish a network of
low-cost rural youth training centers (Enseignement Moyen Pratique - EMP),
as well as some strengthening of educational planning services, and a pre-
investment study of alternatives to primary education.
39.       Implementation of the second project was again hampered by delays
at the design stage, and by slow contract awards caused by the Government's
cumbersome procedures. These delays, together with a 10% decline in the
value of the US dollar, resulted in a cost overrun of about US$6 million.
The Government therefore decided not to construct 3 of the 11 planned science
centers, and 15 of the original 30 rural education centers, leaving a financing
gap of about US$2 million. Since Credit funds will be insufficient to finance
civil works for the Hotel Training School, the last item to go to bid (with an
estimated cost of $2.7 million), the Government is now seeking alternative
sources of external financing for the school. Completion of construction work
on the science centers and lower secondary schools is expected towards end-
1979, about two years behind schedule. The Vocational Training and Upgrading
Center is in operation, and responding satisfactorily to employers' demands;
about 1,000 workers have benefited from on-the-job training in factories and
industrial plants, and specialized center-based training for skilled workers.
The nonformal rural education component is innovative and proving difficult to
implement; selection of appropriate sites for the village centers has been



- 13 -
slow, preparation of the building designs using local materials took a long
time, and insufficient attention has been paid to program development and
training of instructors. The Government is now making considerable efforts to
establish 15 centers before December 1981.
40.       Prior to negotiations of the proposed third project, the Government
satisfactorily completed certain actions aimed at expediting implementation
of the second project, particularly regarding the pace of construction work,
invitation of equipment tenders for the science centers, and preparation and
agreement of a detailed implementation schedule for the rural youth training
component. With these actions, the pace of disbursements has increased
considerably, and project execution is now expected to progress satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A.   Background
41.       In response to the Government's request for continued Bank Group
assistance in education, and based on the findings of a Unesco sector mission
in late 1976, a project identification mission visited Senegal in July 1977.
A follow-up mission in October 1977 reached agreement in principle with the
Government on items that could be considered for financing by the Association
under a Third Education Project. Educational specifications for the proposed
institutions were prepared by consultants recruited by Government in agree-
ment with the Association, and were reviewed by a pre-appraisal mission in
April 1978. The Government also selected architects for the required design
work which is being financed from an advance of up to $400,000 approved by the
Association in May 1978 under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF); the PPF
is also intended to meet the cost of specialist services for preparation of
detailed equipment lists, and for further program development. The proposed
project was appraised in June 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington from
April 9-12, 1979, with a Senegalese delegation led by Mr. Louis Alexandrenne,
Minister for Planning and Cooperation. The Staff Appraisal Report (No.
2270a-SE dated May 1, 1979) is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors.
B.   Project Description
42.       The proposed project, to be implemented over 1979-84, emphasizes
institution-building, and improvements in the quality and relevance of educa-
tion and training programs. Its specific objectives reflect the Government's
own development priorities (paras. 33 and 34). The project comprises the
following components:
(a) Primary Education and Education Research and Planning
(i) equipment and specialist services to develop
vocabularies, and to prepare and evaluate experimental
programs for testing the use of national languages in the
lower primary grades;



- 14 -
(ii)  construction, equipment, and furniture for a new
Primary Teacher Training College in the Casamance
region, and specialist services and fellowships to
improve pre-service and in-service teacher training
programs;
(iii)  equipment, specialist services, and fellowships for a
proposed National Institute of Education responsible
for all activities in educational research and evalua-
tion; and
(iv) specialist services and fellowships for the Ministry
of Education to plan for the expansion of primary
education in rural areas, and to prepare projects
for external financing.
(b) Technical Education
(i) construction, equipment, furniture, and specialist
services for a Technical Teacher Training College;
and construction and equipment of additional facilities
for practical instruction of student teachers at the
existing Institut Universitaire de Technologie;
(ii) provision of workshop equipment for two existing
upper secondary technical schools to allow improved
practical training.
(c) Vocational Training
Construction, equipment, and furniture for the
existing Vocational Training and Upgrading Center
and the adjoining Center for Pre-employmeent
Vocational Training to allow teaching of a full
range of industrial upgrading courses; and technical
assistance and fellowships to develop and improve
new training programs, and undertake studies leading
to establishment of a National Vocational Training
Office.
(d) Agricultural Education
Construction, equipment, furniture, specialist
services, and fellowships for a National College
of Agriculture to provide university-level training
in the various branches of agricultural education.



- 15 -
(e) Management Training
Construction, equipment, furniture, specialist
services, and fellowships for a Management Training
Institute to provide Master's Degree level programs,
as well as upgrading courses in business administra-
tion for managerial staff of modern sector enterprises.
(f) Project Administration
Specialist services, equipment, and operating costs for
the existing Project Unit.
(a) Primary Education and Educational Research and Planning
43.       Introduction of National Languages.  To continue development of new
curricula required to introduce experimental classes in three of the national
languages, the proposed project will finance studies to prepare vocabularies,
and 30 man-years of specialist services over three years to support a team
consisting of a language education specialist and nine Senegalese teachers.
This team will prepare teaching programs, determine teaching methods, prepare
and test teaching aids, establish monitoring and evaluation procedures, and
devise training programs to familiarize teachers with the new programs and
materials. The project also provides office equipment and furniture, teach-
ing materials, and fellowships to organize training seminars for about 360
teachers over the three-year period.
44.       Primary Teacher Training.  An important aspect of the Government's
plans for primary education is to have teachers trained in their own region,
and to adapt programs to regional needs. The proposed project will finance
(a) construction, furniture, and equipment for a new Primary Teacher Training
College of 240 student places at Kolda in the Casamance region; (b) four man-
years of services for a specialist in primary education and teacher training
who will inter alia, review primary education curricula, and study various
options for achieving a significant reduction in recurrent costs; (c) a 12
man-month fellowship to upgrade a local specialist in primary education and
teacher training; and (d) equipment, teaching materials, and fellowships
for seminars to upgrade 1,200 headmasters and teachers over a four-year
period.
45.       Educational Research.  The proposed project will help establish
within the Ministry of Education a National Institute of Education (Institut
National d'Etudes et d'Actions pour le Developpement de l'Education - INEADE)
by financing (a) three man-years of services by a specialist in educational
research and evaluation as Director of the Institute; (b) a 12 man-month
fellowship for a local counterpart; and (c) office furniture and equipment.
The Government has agreed that the Institute will-be legally established, with
internal organization and responsibilities acceptable to the Association, by
November 1, 1979 (Sections 3.02(a) and (b) of draft Credit Agreement). Once
the Institute is established, its responsibilities will include supervision
of two studies for which the project provides 5 man-months of specialist



- 16 -
services: (a) an evaluation of the impact on student achievement of science
and technology centers financed under the ongoing Second Education Project;
and (b) a survey of education in Arabic and in the Koranic schools, to deter-
mine what role these schools can be given in the plans to increase access to
education.
46.       Planning and Project Preparation.  To help the Government plan for
expanding the coverage of primary education, the project will finance (a) 33
man-months for continuation of the services of planning and school-mapping
specialists, including training of local staff; (b) three man-months of
specialist services to analyze education cost and financing arrangements, and
prepare recommendations on efficient use of available budgetary resources in
the light of Government's plans for expansion of primary education at reduced
cost which could be assisted by a possible fourth project; (c) 24 man-months
of fellowships for training Senegalese staff in educational planning and
statistics; and (d) furniture and office equipment for new offices for the
existing planning unit. The project also provides US$200,000 equivalent for
educational and architectural consulting services to prepare projects suitable
for external financing.
(b) Technical Education
47.       Technical Teacher Training.  In support of the Government's plans
for expansion and improvement of technical education, the proposed project
will finance construction (including limited laboratory and workshop facil-
ities) of a Technical Teacher Training College (Ecole Normale Superieure
d'Enseignement Technique et Professionnelle - ENSET) enrolling about 340
students. The project will also finance construction, equipment, and furni-
ture for extensions to three existing buildings in the nearby IUT to provide
additional facilities to ENSET student-s for specialized technical training.
ENSET will provide professional training for secondary technical teachers in
education, psychology, methodology and applied pedagogy, and also limited
skills upgrading; practical work will be emphasized throughout the training
period. Basic industrial or commercial skills training will take place at
other institutions specially designed and equipped for this purpose, in
particular the IUT. A joint pedagogical committee will ensure cooperation
between ENSET and IUT (Section 3.02(c) of draft Credit Agreement). Qualified
instructors are expected to be provided by French bilateral assistance;
qualified Senegalese staff will become available over the long term as ENSET
graduates gain experience and receive necessary upgrading. The project will
also finance the services over three years of two specialists in technical
education and teacher training for program development, including revision of
the secondary school technical curricula. The Government has agreed that
ENSET will be legally established by November 1, 1979, with a teaching program
structure acceptable to the Association (Section 3.02(a) of draft Credit
Agreement).
48.       Upper Secondary Technical Education.  The project will finance
workshop equipment for two existing upper secondary technical schools (the
Lycee Delafosse in Dakar and the Lycee Peytavin in Saint-Louis) to follow up



- 17 -
on assistance provided to these schools under the First Education Project, and
assure a flow of secondary school leavers with a grounding in science and
technical subjects, for further education and training.
(c) Vocational Training
49.       Upgrading.  The project will finance equipment to allow increased
enrollments at the existing Vocational Training and Upgrading Center (Centre
de Formation et de Perfectionnement Professionel - CFPP) which started skilled
worker training programs in 1977 with support under the Second Education
Project and technical assistance from the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP). The project will also finance 13 man-years of expert services over
1979-81 to assure effective development of industrial training programs,
including related on-the-job training of industry-based staff.
50.       Basic Training.  The project will finance equipment purchases and
workshop improvements for the existing Pre-employment Vocational Training
Center (Centre de Qualification Industrielle - CQID) to allow increased
student capacity (from 140 to about 200) and improved quality of programs.
Cooperation between the CQID and the adjacent CFPP will be strengthened
and formalized. To this end, the Government has agreed that, no later than
June 30, 1982, the two institutions will be integrated to form an industrial
training and upgrading center operating under a single management structure
and an independent statute acceptable to the Association (Section 3.03 of
draft Credit Agreement). The strengthened CFPP would then become the coun-
try's major institution for vocational training, offering both pre-employment
programs and specific skills upgrading courses in a variety of technical
specialties.
51.       National Vocational Training Office.  The project will finance 18
man-months of specialist services in the legislation, organization, financing,
and labor relations of industrial training, to help the Government establish
the proposed Office which would be responsible for coordinating vocational
training country-wide. The specialists will be expected to work in close
consultation with the vocational training staff of the CFPP.
(d) Agricultural Education
52.       With Government's increasing investments in agricultural development
projects, the demand for trained agricultural technicians is expected to
rise significantly. This demand is presently being met at the lower- and
middle-levels from Senegalese schools, and at the University level through
overseas training. The proposed project will finance construction, furniture,
equipment, and 20 man-years of expert technical assistance for a proposed
National College of Agriculture (Institut National de Developpement Rural -
INDR). The INDR will have a capacity of about 200 student places, and an
annual output of about 40 University-level agriculturalists. The planned
five-year training program will be practical, and oriented to requirements of
the national rural development agencies which would be expected to employ many
of the graduates. Students will be offered an initial two-year program to



- 18 -
strengthen their science background and provide basic training in agriculture;
specializations will be offered from the third year in general agronomy,
animal production, and agricultural engineering, with optional courses avail-
able in forestry, horticulture and agro-industrial sciences.
53.       INDR will be established as an etablissement public according to the
existing Senegalese law on public institutions, under the responsibility of
the Ministry of Higher Education. Its statutes will provide for close links
with the Ministry of Rural Development, the Rural Development Agencies, and
the National Agricultural Research Institute, and will ensure their representa-
tion on the Board of INDR and its pedagogical council. The Government has
prepared draft texts of the proposed legislation, including teaching program
structure and arrangements to formally establish a revolving fund for urgent
expenditures and to assure sound financial management of the institution;
these texts have been reviewed and agreed with the Association, and the Govern-
ment has provided assurances that INDR will be established by November 1,
1979 according to the agreed arrangements (Section 3.02 (a) and (d) of draft
Credit Agreement).
54.       The project will provide five specialists in University-level agri-
cultural education to help establish the various departments, and 12 man-
months of consulting services for program elaboration. The Government has
agreed to appoint by September 1, 1979 qualified expatriate staff to serve as
Director (or Deputy Director) until a suitably qualified Senegalese becomes
available, and a Program Director to coordinate the development of teaching
programs, and project start-up activities; the qualifications, experience,
and terms of reference of the candidates should be acceptable to the Associa-
tion (Section 3.01 (f) of draft Credit Agreement). The Government would
approach bilateral agencies to fill other initial teaching posts and provide
continuing technical assistance to INDR; France and Belgium have already
expressed an interest. Additionally, the project provides for 18 man-years
of fellowships to train qualified Senegalese staff for INDR (including the
post of Director).
(e) Management Training
55.       To help resolve the critical modern sector managerial problems, the
proposed project provides for construction, equipment, furniture, and 13 man-
years of specialist services to establish a Management Training Institute
(Ecole Superieure de Gestion des Entreprises - ESGE), with a capacity of about
180 student places. The ESGE will provide training in modern business manage-
ment techniques (including personnel administration and financial analysis)
leading to the equivalent of a Master of Business Administration Degree
(Diplome Superieur de Gestion d'Entreprises - DSGE) for holders of at least
a first-level university degree with a minimum of three years business or
management experience. The annual output from this program will be about 40
students. ESGE will also offer upgrading courses and seminars for middle-
and high-level managers (about 1,000 annually) employed in parapublic and
private enterprises. ESGE will also establish a management consulting depart-
ment which would undertake organization and management studies and analysis
for private and parapublic sector enterprises in Senegal as well as in neigh-
boring countries.



- 19 -
56.       The Institute will be established under arrangements similar to
those for INDR (para. 53) (Section 3.02 (a) and (e) of draft Credit Agree-
ment). The statutes of ESGE will provide for representation of private and
parapublic sector employers on the Board and the pedagogical council. Addi-
tionally, the Government has provided assurances that, if existing initial
plans for a regional management training school for the member countries of
the West Africa Economic Community were to materialize, the ESGE would be the
nucleus for such a school (Section 3.02(f) of draft Credit Agreement).
57.       The project will finance a Director (or Program Director), three
department heads, and two man-years of consulting services to start up the
Institute and to prepare detailed training programs. Six man-months of these
services would be used for a study of specific issues in Senegalese personnel
management and administration, and teaching programs would be designed as
appropriate to local conditions. The Government is seeking bilateral asist-
ance to provide additional teaching staff. The project will also finance
part of the salary costs of qualified Senegalese staff during the start-up
period, as well as eight man-years of fellowships to train qualified Senegalese
for teaching positions at the Institute. The Government has agreed that
candidates for the post of Director and Program Director will be appointed by
December 31, 1980, with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
acceptable to the Association (Section 3.01(g) of draft Credit Agreement).
(f) Project Administration
58.       The Unit responsible for physical implementation of education
projects was established in the Ministry of Public works under the First
Education Project, and has been well managed and performed efficiently since
then. The project unit consists of a part-time Project Director who is also
Director of Public Works, an expatriate building engineer (as full-time
deputy director), and supporting technical and administrative staff. For
implementation of the proposed third project, the Project Unit will be
strengthened by providing 48 man-years of specialist services of the Deputy
Project Director, a new expatriate equipment procurement specialist, staff for
site supervision, and accounting and secretarial assistance. The project will
also finance some additional equipment and furniture for the Project Unit, and
its operating expenses (Sections 3.01, 3.04 and Schedule 4 of draft Credit
Agreement).
C.   Project Cost and Financing
59.       The total cost of the proposed project (net of taxes and duties
from which the project will be exempt) is estimated at US$33.1 million
equivalent, including foreign exchange costs of US$20.5 million (about 63%).
Estimates for civil works costs are for February 1979, based on recent
construction contracts. The average cost for the services of expatriate
specialists, based on recent recruitment experiences of international organi-
zations and the Government, is estimated at US$7,100 per man-month (including
travel and housing allowances), of which about US$3,000 for salaries. Physical
contingencies have been applied at 10% of the base cost for civil works,
furniture, and equipment. Price contingencies averaging 22% over the project
period have been estimated as follows: for civil works and professional fees,
7.5% in 1979 and 7% in 1980-84; for furniture and equipment, 6.5% in 1979 and
6% in 1980-84; for specialist services and fellowships, 8% in 1979-84.



- 20 -
60.       The project will be financed from the following sources:  (i) the
proposed IDA Credit of US$22 million; (ii) a credit of US$4.5 million from the
EEC Special Action Fund; (iii) a loan of about FF 19 million (US$4.5 million
equivalent) from the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique - CCCE); and
(iv) a Government contribution of US$2.1 million equivalent. The total
external financing of US$31 million will finance about 93% of project costs
net of taxes, a high proportion which is well justified considering Senegal's
very difficult public finance situation and the importance of the project to
the country's development plans.
61.       The EEC funds are intended for quick disbursement over two years,
and it is therefore proposed to allocate them for construction, equipment and
furniture for the proposed Primary Teacher Training College, and for new equip-
ment for the Lycee Peytavin under the technical education component. A con-
dition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit will be the fulfillment of con-
ditions prior to effectiveness of an agreement between the Government and the
EEC Special Action Fund for financing of the above items (Section 6.01(a) of
draft Credit Agreement).
62.       CCCE has agreed that its contribution be applied to financing of the
proposed National College of Agriculture as follows: (i) a joint arrangement
with the Association on the civil works component, with CCCE providing 40% of
the total cost; (ii) all equipment and furniture; (iii) about 10 man-years of
technical assistance (out of a total of 21) including the Director of Studies,
Director of Field Training Programs, and 12 man-months of consulting services
to prepare teaching programs; and (iv) about 9 man-years of fellowships (out
of a total of 18).
63.       On the basis of the above arrangements, the proposed financing plan
is as follows:
(in US$ millions)
Total      EEC Special
Cost  IDA  Action Fund  CCCE  Government
Primary Education                     5.9   2.3      3.2         -       0.4
Technical Education                   6.0   5.2      0.3         -       0.5
Vocational Training                   2.5   2.5       -          -        -
National College of Agriculture       6.9   3.1       -         3.5      0.3
Management Training Institute         3.0   2.8       -          -       0.3
Project Unit                          1.1   1.1       -                   -
25.4  17.0      3.5       3.5       1.4
Contingencies
-  physical                         1.7   1.1      0.3        0.2      0.1
-  prices                           6.0   3.9      0.7        0.8      0.6
7.7   5.0      1.0       1.0       0.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST (net of taxes)  33.1  22.0        4.5        4.5      2.1
(66%)    (14%)      (14%)    (6%)



- 21 -
64.       Recurrent Cost Implications.  When the project institutions become
fully operational in 1981, annual recurrent expenditures of the Ministry of
Higher Education will increase by about US$1.3 million in 1979 prices, and
those of the Ministry of National Education by about US$0.9 million; these
increases represent about 8% and 1% respectively over the totF' 1978 recurrent
budgets of these Ministries. The Association has reviewed with Government
the budgetary impact of the proposed project, and has received assurances
that adequate budgetary provisions will be made for the operation and main-
tenance of all project-assisted institutions; the Government also provided
assurances that, during the budget year prior to opening of new institutions
to be established under the project (INDR, ESGE, and ENSET), it will review
and agree with the Association on adequate budgetary provisions (Sections
3.10 and 4.03(b) of draft Credit Agreement).
D.   Project Implementation
65.       The existing Project Unit will be responsible for administration
and supervision of project works. The Ministries of National Education and
Higher Education will each designate senior officials to serve as sub-
project managers who will advise and assist the Project Director on issues
relating to the design of educational programs and building equipment speci-
fications, selection of specialists, and the planning of their work (Section
3.01 (e) and Schedule 4 of draft Credit Agreement). All final architectural
designs are expected to be completed in agreement with the Association by
September 1979, except those for ESGE which were later in starting, and which
will not be ready before April 1980. Suitable sites for proposed project
institutions have been selected and agreed with the Association, and the
Government has provided assurances that all land required for construction of
project facilities will be available by September 30, 1979 (Section 3.09 of
draft Credit Agreement). Construction of buildings and installation of
furniture and equipment will be completed by October 1982. Provision of
specialist services (totalling about 150 man-years of which about half
expected to be expatriate) and overseas fellowships (totalling 34 man-
years) in agreement with the Association will continue until June 1984
(Sections 3.04, 3.07 and Schedule 2 of draft Credit Agreement).
66.       Procurement.  Civil works valued at US$8.6 million (including joint
financing of US$1.5 million by CCCE for the National College of Agriculture),
and furniture and equipment valued at US$4 million to be financed by the
Association will be procured following international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Procurement of civil works (US$2.8
million) and equipment and furniture (US$1.1 million) to be financed from
the Special Action Credit will follow international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines, except that bidding will be limited to
members and associate members of the EEC. Domestic manufacturers of furniture
and equipment will be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price
of competing imports, or the total applicable customs duties and import taxes,
whichever is lower. Items of furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped
in packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent, or which are not suitable for
international competitive bidding, will be procured by inviting quotations
from at least three reliable suppliers, whenever possible, or in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association;



- 22 -
the total value of such items would not exceed US$0.5 million. The above
arrangements have been discussed and agreed with the Government (Section 2.03
and Schedule 3 of draft Credit Agreement). Procurement of furniture and
equipment (US$1.1 million) for INDR with financing from the CCCE, will be li
accordance with the guidelines of that institution.
67.       Disbursements.  Proceeds from the proposed IDA Credit will be dis-
bursed as follows:
(a) civil works, 85% of total expenditures (except for the INDR
where the Credit will finance 50% of total expenditures);
(b) professional fees, 100% of total expenditures;
(c) furniture, 100% of total expenditures;
(d) equipment, teaching materials, and vehicles,
100% of total expenditures;
(e) specialist services and fellowships, 100% of total
expenditures.
Disbursement ratios from the EEC contribution will be similar to those for
the IDA Credit. All IDA and EEC disbursements will be fully documented,
except for salaries of local staff and expenses of staff attending local
training seminars, which will be against certified statements of expenditure;
documentation for these will be held by the Project Unit for review by IDA
supervision missions. The Project Unit will establish accounts to record all
project expenditures; these accounts will be audited annually by independent
auditors in agreement with the Association (Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of draft
Credit Agreement). No disbursements will be made for civil works for the INDR
until all conditions precedent to an initial disbursement from the CCCE loan
have been fulfilled (Schedule 1 of draft Credit Agreement).
68.       Revolving Fund.  A revolving fund of US$200,000 equivalent, financed
by the IDA Credit, will be established to pay the salaries of instructional
staff, fellowships, educational planning and research personnel, and Project
Unit staff on direct contract with the Government, and to purchase small items
of equipment and furniture for the project institutions. Provision of this
fund is intended to help expedite project implementation by allowing prompt
payments and purchases. The Association will replenish the account upon
receipt of evidence of disbursements from the fund for allowable expenditures.
The Government has agreed to open a special account in a local commercial
bank, to be operated under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association;
opening of this account will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit. (Sections 2.02 and 6.01(b) of draft Credit Agreement). In addition
to this IDA financed fund, the Government will establish by December 31, 1979
a separate revolving fund of CFAF 50 million (US$230,000 equivalent) to



- 23 -
pre-finance operating costs of the Project Unit, and to finance the local
contribution to the project. This fund will be replenished quarterly from
the Government budget (Section 3.01(b) of draft Credit Agreement).
E.   Project Benefits and Risks
69.       The proposed project is important for overall development of
education in Senegal. It is expected to produce significant benefits in
institution-building by providing improved capacity for efficient project
execution, for educational research and planning through the proposed National
Institute of Education, and for coordination of vocational training through
creation of a National Training Office. In the important area of primary
education, the project will pave the way for greatly increased quality and
access at gradually reduced per student costs, especially in the now deprived
rural areas; in addition to the proposed new teacher training college, it is
planned over the project period to organize seminars for upgrading 1,200
headmasters and teachers, as well as for preparing about 360 teachers to
undertake instruction in national languages. The technical education compo-
nent will provide increased capacity and improved quality of teacher training
through the proposed new college with an expected annual output of 60 technical
teachers; it will also allow higher quality of student output from existing
upper secondary technical schools with a total enrollment of about 1,500. In
vocational training, increased student capacity and training quality at
existing centers will allow training and upgrading annually about 500 skilled
workers vital for development of the modern industrial sector. Finally, the
project will help meet Senegal's critical need for higher qualified technical
and managerial manpower through proposed new institutions with an annual
output of about 40 university-level agriculturalists and 40 business managers;
also, seminars will be organized for upgrading annually about 1,000 middle-
and high-level managers employed in parapublic and private enterprises.
70.       In light of experience on the two earlier projects, potential risks
in physical implementation of this proposed Third Project have been reduced
to the minimum by taking project preparation to a more advanced stage before
Board presentation. Particularly, final agreed architectural designs are due
for completion by September 1979 (except for ESGE, para. 65), Government pro-
curement and contract award procedures are being simplified, and it is planned
to strengthen the Project Unit and improve arrangements for monitoring pro-
gress of project implementation.
71.       The major risk for the project will be satisfactory staffing and
budgetary support for the proposed institutions. To limit the risk of future
staffing problems, the project finances technical assistance and fellowships
for staff training, and the Government has been encouraged to seek additional
assistance from bilateral and multilateral sources to cover staffing needs
during the initial years of operation of the project institutions until local
personnel start becoming available. In view of the interest already expressed
by bilateral donors and Senegal's previous success in attracting qualified
technical assistance, staffing needs are expected to be satisfactorily met.



- 24 -
72.       The seriousness of the recurrent financing problem will depend to a
large extent on the success of Senegal's ongoing efforts to improve its eco-
nomic performance. However, in view of the high priority which the Government
attaches to establishment of the project institutions, it is expected that
funds needed to cover their operating costs will be made available by re-
allocating resources from budgetary items of lesser priority. Also, there is
scope for more efficient use of funds allocated for education, and the project-
financed study of education costs and financing will make recommendations to
identify and reallocate savings from current commitments.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Senegal and the Association, the draft Special Action Credit Agreement between
the Association as Administrator and the Government, and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
74.       Features of the Development Credit Agreements and Special Action
Credit Agreement of special interest are referred to in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Development
Credit are: (i) the fulfillment of conditions prior to effectiveness of the
Special Action Credit Agreement (para. 61); and (ii) opening of the Special
Account referred to in para. 68 in this report.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and that the proposed
Special Action credit would be in conformity with the agreement between the
Association, the EEC and its member states dated May 2, 1978.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and the proposed Special Action Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 1, 1979



ANNEX I
-  5-s
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SENECAL                                                  L
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            196.2                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT RICHER
AGRICULTURAL      80.0                                  MDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  200.0        270.0     420.0            223.6      432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      121.0       139.0      195.0             86.7      251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          3.4         4.4        5.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.7          29.0      30.2             13.6       24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KN.                        17.0         22.0      27.0             18.4       42.7         50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      43.0        55.0       66.0             53.6       95.0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.6        41.2       44.2             44.4       44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                          53.6        54.9       52.7             52.7       52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.8          3.9       3.1              2.8        3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.1          2.6       2.7              2.6        2.7          2.5
URBAN                               3.5          5.0       4.0              5.8        8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      48.0         47.6      47.6             46.9       42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.5         24.4      20.0             20.6       12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          3.0       3.1              3.1        3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        ..              2.5       14.2         20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             151.5        100.0     139.4             94.2      104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    97.0        91.0       97.0             90.1       99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           64.0         64.0      67.1             55.2       56.8         63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..         16.6 /f   20.8             17.1       17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..         85.0        ..               ..        7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9          40.0      44.0             43.7       53.3         57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           193.0           ..     158.0            138.4       82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..             22.4       31.1         56.8
URBAN                                ..         87.0        *.             66.3       68.5         79.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             10.4       18.2         31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..             23.9       37.5         30.9
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             70.3       69.5         45.4
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             14.2       25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          35000.0      16640.0   13470.0          21757.5     9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4110.0 /R   2610.0    1350.0            3473.8     2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             940.0        810.0     730.0            645.4      786.5        493.9
URBAN                                ..        390.0     380.0            172.9      278.4        229.6
RURAL                                *-       1300.0    1156.0           1292.6     1358.4       2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         22.2      26.7             19.2        19.2        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..              4.9         ..          5.2
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..              5.0          ..         5.0
RURAL                                                                       4.7                     5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..          ..         2.0
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..         2.3         1.5
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..          ..         2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..       28.3         64.1
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..          ..        67.8
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..       10.3         34.1



-26-                                            ANNEX I
Pass 2
SEZGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SRE
REZUIICE GLOUPS (ADJUSTED AVE*ES
SE1IEAL
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SANE     NErX  aIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 A  ESTIMATE /b      REGION. Lc   GROUP Ld    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMALY:    TOTAL                 27.0        43.0      40.0            52.1        75.8        99.8
FEMALE               17.0        33.0      3Z.0            37.6       67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  3.0        11.0      13.0             8.0        17.7        33.8
FEMALE                2.0         6.0       8.0             5.0        12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 23.0         9.0      10.0             7.2         7.4        12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             ..        45.0      49.0            43.2        34.3        34.9
SECONDARY                         34.0        29.0      22.0            22.8        23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        5.6 /h     10.0      10.0            20.3        63.7        71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TNDUSAND
POPULATION                         6.0         9.0       9.2             3.9         7.2        12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        47.0        69.0      66.0            40.1        71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.4       8.0             2.2        14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ('"DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  6.0         5.0       7.0             3.9        16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..       1.2             1.2         1.6         4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1300.0      1600.0    1650.0
FMALE (PERCENT)                   39.7        39.1      38.8            32.6       28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             83.6        73.0        ..            73.3       54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 5.4         6.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               46.6        44.3      42.8            42.0       37.8         33.8
HALF                                56.7        54.5      53.0            54.8        50.3        48.1
FEMALE                              36.8        34.3      32.8            27.3       20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2         1.2       1.2              1.2        1.3         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PRCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   36.8 /i       *-        *-            25.7        19.5        23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  62.5 /i       ..        ..            55.1       48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.2 /i       * -                      5.8        5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.4 /i       ..        ..            14.5        15.7        13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..           108.8       155.9       191.9
RURAL                               ..          .,      70.0            74.1       97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          .,     151.0           124.4       143.7       319.8
RURAL                               ..          ..     117.0            59.6       87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      23.0            26.8       22.9         19.8
RURAL                               ..          ..      30.0            47.6        36.7        35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries aong the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betveen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, betveen 1973 and 1977.
/c   Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income  ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  le  Intermediate Middle
Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  If  1972; jj  1964;  lb  African population only; Li Population.
September, 1978



- 27 -                                                                        ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                        Page 3
0g,: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifom. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                 Population per hospital bed - total., urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                           urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                     available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                       habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                                at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                      cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by sane conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  sistant, nurse, midife., etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                        from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Aeae sine of household (persona per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPU'LATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                       and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                              the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                        hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                      Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                   ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  so. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                      unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                           Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                      of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                 EDUCATION
year population.                                                                        Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                      Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                          at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                      populations; nomally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                        above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                       Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                             vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                      usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal ieproductive period if she experiences present age-                          excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                     Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                            clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                           or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                          primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percest of married women) - Percentage of                           sponding levels.
married women of child-boaring age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                  Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                            a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                        CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                      Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                        seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                  broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                 receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                     effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                   abolished licensing.
eel activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                     TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to gene.rB
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                     public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                         tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams ner day) - Protein content of per                     Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                       tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                     cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                      be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.                Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                      sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                        units.
FA0 in the Third World Food Survey.
per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                 EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                       Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                    forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                 tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                     Agriculture (percent) - labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                           as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                    Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                  electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                     Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                  female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                      These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting ASe-see
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                       strucrtre of tho population,. nd long time treed.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                     Ecesic depond-ecyr-ie- Ratio  f populatio  ucd- 15 sod 65 and 0e0  to
uncuntaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                       the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                       INCOME DISTRIBtTION
then 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                     Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
seeable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                      percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                        of households.
upend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                           POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Acceso to emoreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                    Estimated absoiute pevertv income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
-arul - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                         Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                          nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                          affordable.
treat.ent, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                      Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
ar the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                       Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                         per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                         Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - PopulatIon divided by number of                               Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                          "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Ecenomic Analysis and Projections Department



[ItIIZiIF5iRIt               tt            0000000o0         - 000000000- 0              '0'0'00-0-    0000  00--"00
00-00-00.00   0-0-      0001000000   000-1  000   0-000  0  00-00000   0  000000,  0  00  00000000000,-00   -z
000000,--0'00-00    000000000.00.  000000   00-0   H  0000000                       000-0,-'  0  '00  0000000000   0  00
o  00   000000-0    000-  000000    0-00-000,. 00    -  00-                      r    0000        000-    00-00000   0   00
0000-o,-,0,--000-      0 oOO,oO       Oooo0-o,-'oo                     00-0-  0- Ooo0-0    0-000,000   0000-0  0-   00-
000-0-0  000    000,000000   0  00  00-0-00,0             0- 00000,00   0  0'0000.                    0,00-       0    00
oOO   00  0'-  00   000000-0000000   0                           0000   00000000-   0  0    OOo'00-    0-  0                   0
000000-0, 0-o.,-'o00.  ooOOOr-- 0-00   0  0  00000 OooOOOo,,                     000   00000-00-  0000   o-o-  0
00000-   20 000   0  0  0  0  I'0'0   0-000-   -0 000   0-00  0- 00-                    00000        0--   0
000000-00        00     0000   00000   00    0    0-000    0  0-00               00  00           000000000   0-'-0-0-       00
0000000   0-000           000-000000              0    0,0000   01 00W-                0            000000  '-'-00           -
'0000000-0-0-            00-0000-    '00                 00      l0'0'0
0  0-000   0-0  00      0        0-00-      0           000         00        ,o                 
00000   00000           oo   000'         0           000         00-
00-000             00-10   02.000                   00          0          0-               0
00-00  00-  2-00        o0            0     0                       -0        0                   00-0-
-            00                                                    '00000        '0O'0Of-     00000' 0-0-0-0-0-0000000        '0
0    00  00   0                                   <o0oo0-                          '0                                           0
0-0- 000-                                                     -'0
00100                                   S
-   100  Jo           0         0
I'0-,0-I0-00                         '00-0-0-0-0-       0-  0-     0           0-       0-0
I     
00  I 0    '00000000000000                                                                    0
010-00000 '<             00                                   00   0            0-,   00            00
0i01000100000  000'                     - 0-0-0-000      00-000       00000-0-0-00000-000,0           00
000000-000-00  '0 00                            0           0-'    00
I  I        I      0-00000-00-0  00  00-0-0-0-0-0
tg                       IZ                       0000000-00,-     0-00-0-0      00000-000000-0000000-0          0
000-000-00  0  00-0-0-0-            0-   0     00          0      0 I 0-      0
0-0  00  0  '0000-0-00                          '0- - 000-0000      0-0-0000100  0000  ,'00-00,-''00-0-00I00    "0
000             ,,  10  <iI00J1O:0L-:O-0-0      0000- 00000  00 0-0-0-000000-     00-0-0-100   0-00 0-0000000 0-0-0-100       00
0  .0           00        000-10-0-0000  0
0-         00           -                                                       0-   0      0           0    0-0' 0        0
000                                        00                       '00-0--  0-0-
000-000000 '0
-fl-00'         '00-
0-0                                                        0           0' 0-0000<0-
000               0       '00N1000000000-0000'                      00-0--  0-0- 00  0  00000000  0-0-00-0-  000-00000-000000-
[0
0-                             0,      0                        00-0-0-  00-      0-  00      0           0   0-0-o00       00-      0-
Jo-  0                        - 0'0000000      000-0000-     0-000000-0-0000-0-0             Oo      0
0                           0- 0-0-I000-                        0'0000000        0-00000      0-000-000000000000000000        00      0-
0                         lIe.. ,4ooloo                                                                                          0     0
0                                    000-0000-       00000-0       000000000000000-000-0
0                           000i0001000  000
0-IO'-400001,-'00                                                                                    0
0   h'   [0;                                :::z00:s    ::z:   o'000000000::0-:
0-                     -00000000        o0'000        000-000-000-0-00000' 0          0
10-0-  0'                       00000000       -,0-00       '00-0-  0000-  00-00-  0         0
lLi00o 00100' 0
IHi0l&ro0' 0-                       0000-00000      000000       00-0  000000000-0  0            00
0             '0o       00oRoIo4o001o0
0-                                                               '00
0     00000-00000-0  00                                                                '0
0     -0-         -0-  0-0000-000                    0000000       '00-  0000-000-000-00  00       00
00                                                               000
00    000  000  000000000-  0-                                                                       0
0           00 0  00 0 0000-0         0000000-0-00   0-0000000    00-0  00000000000
0      0-0  '0'    OflOol,                                                                          10
- , , , - -   0     00000   0  0-   00000000          0000000      0-000-0-0000  000000  0         00
0                            0-    0000  000-     0 OooOO
0-0                               no  00       ,                                                                '0
00   -   0  0              0000000000     0-0000000    000000000000000   0             00
0                            0      0-0  0
- , , ,     '                         000   00        000000       0000000000-000000  0            0
0     000  0-                                                                                      0
A                                               -           00 0                                                                 "0,         0
00         4,-01-'01;z                  0'     0                   0-00-0-0-      00-      -00.0-0-0000  0      po          0
0                                                                                     i-I 0  00,000  0-0-000000000-0000000
00  I 0-I 0
0-                  00000000       000-0-000000000000-000-00              0
0  0-               0                   0000-00-       0-0-     -00,0-0000'0          00
0-00  00  0  -         0' 0                    0-000-000      000-000000000-00000-0         000
0-00000000  0-0  000-000000000                        000000000-     ooo-00-00-000000 0000000
i- ''r0-' ir             '00000  :                                                                 I
000-0-0-     0-0-     0-0010-00000'0       10000
0       -              0,                     0                                             '000000-       00000000 0'00000000000000     00
O                      0          -I<l[                                                   00000-0000    '00- 000,'0-0000000
0                                                                                                                                  0
00      0              0                                                                     0-0-0-00     0-''    -0000000000000         000
0           o.,oI           0                                       000000000      0000-0000000000000-0--
0          ,.LJo'AoooIoo                                                                                         100
0          44t['  i                                                000-00000      00000000-000-00-000-0-0000
00            00  0,000000  0
00000-                0-000000-000-0100    00
.oo,oIooIo                                               '00-0'0-       00000-000000 000000000000lO   00
'0       "0                                                                       -  -  -  *0    0-
oo.jO oC00L0                                          000-00000      ooo,o0000o,-.0-0-,-0-olo
<+4O 40000000 lo
- St -



SENEGAL:  BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND FXTERNAL ASSISTANCE                                        ANNEY I
Page 5
(millions of c-rrent U.S. dollars)
Actuala                                        estimates                          Projections
1970     1971     1972       1973    1974     1975           1976      1977     1978             1979      1980      1985
A.   SUMMARY BALANCE OF FAYMENTS
1.  Exports, incl. NFS                                    237      231      333       355      602      693             706      750      623              855        975     1697
2.  Imports, incl. NFS                                   -276     -295     -373      -483     -691     -793            -852     -880     -950             -988      -1109    -1854
3.  Resource balance                                      -39      -64       -40     -128      -89     -100            -146     -130     -327             -133       -134    -157
4.  Factor services net                                    21      -19       -23      -29      -48       -55            -25      -25       -33             -51         52      -98
Net investment income                           -10      -11      -12       -17      -26      -37             -12      -14       -14             -IS       -15       -40
Interest public debt                             -1       -4       -5        -7      -14      -19             -18      -21      -31              -41        -42      -71
Other interest                                   -1        2         3        3        2        -3             -3       -4        -4              -5         -5
Wotker's remittances                            -16      -15      -20       -18      -20        -6             -4        1         3               -4        -4       -2
Other                                             7        9       11        10       10        10             12       13        13              14         14       15
5.  Current transfers net                                  37       45        50       56       64        67             73       60        80               60        73      100
6.  Current account balance                               -23      -38       -13     -101      -73       -88            -98      -95     -280             -124       -113     -1.55
7.  Private capital (net)                                  -          3        2       15        -5       12             13        1        10              11         50       60
8.  Capital grants                                         12        19        8       19        19       22             23        24       27               30        33        46
9.  Public M + LT loans (net)                              14        15       11       78        36       56             58        76      178               80        38        89
Disbursements                                    19       23        19      100       56        77             83      114       246             165        154      286
Repayments             /1                        -5       -8        -8      -22      -20      -21             -25      -38       -68             -85       -116     -197
10.  Short-term  caPfrtal (net)  -                          10        -4      -12        3        23       10             -         -           12            -_13/
11.  Capital n.e.i. -                                       11         4        7      -28        -3      -22             -6      -25       -26-/            3/         -          _
12,  Increase in reserves (a)                               24        -1        3       44        _       =1             j0         *9      -1                34 
13.  Level of net foreign assets (end year)                 19        17       23      -15      -27       -8             -45       -53    -144             -110          7       69
Actuals                                        estimates                         Pro iections
1970     1971     1972       1973   1974    1975              1976     1977      1978            1979       1980     1985
B.  LOAN COMMITMENTS                                             8         31       50        18.1   70        135            112       223      277             248        161       305
1.  IBRD                                                   -         -        16          1       3        7             26        20-      11               32        20        43
2.  IDA                                                    2         7        11        24        -       25             10        -        26               24         17       26
3.  OPEC Funds                                             -         -         -          -       -        4               2       11        -                5          6        6
4.  Other international institutions                        -        2         1          2      10        6              11        9        -               12         11       16
5.FPrance                                                  2         7         7          5      16       13             27        27       2                28         30       44
6.  Germany                                                2         -         -          -      17        3               -        5        -               10         10       14
7   Canada                                                 -         -         4          3       -        8              4         5           /4            6          7        9
8   OPEC Countries                                         -         -          /5        2/6    9/7         /8            -       12-       410              -         23       25
9   Other bilateral                                                  -         3        30        4       21-                      12 9       0              1          12       12
10.  OMvS(Diam.da,)                                                        -          -        -        -           -                -         -             113-         -        _
il.  Suppliers                                              2         2         2         14       3         1              3       32        10               -          - 
12.  Financial institutions and priv-te banks                -       13         6         80       8       47             28       102      177               10         25      110
C.   LOANS TERMS
1.  Interest (7)                                           3.5       4.9       4.1        5.8    4.7       4.8             6.5      7.8       7.2            5s5         6.0    6.0
2.  Grace (years)                                          8.4       5.0       6.3        6.1     6.3      6.5              -         -        -              4.5        4.0     4.3
3.  Maturity (years)                                      28.1    19.0        30.2       19.8   22.5    23.4              19.1    11.0    13.7               20.0       17.6   18.9
4.  Grant element (x)                                     52.0      35.0      47.0       29.0   39.0    40.0             76.0      13.5      17.7             799       29.0   27.1
Debt service ratio (7.                                 2.5      5.3        3.9       8.2     5.4       5.8            6.1       8.5     15.9             14.7      16.2   15.9
/1  Includes errors and  moissionn
/2  Includes IMF trust fond and SDR allocations.  SFABEX loans and difterences between poblc capital  initlow as recorded by the Central Bank snd by tho IBRD debt report
/3  Includes US$14 million Third Window fonds
/4  Saudi Arabia
75  Denmark
/6  People's Republic of China to finance imports of Chinese sarplos-s  ($552 million disbursed so far)
/7  $4 million fron tISA cad $8 million fron Teas
/8  Includes US$17.4 sillion  om-mitment frim Spain and s3.5 million tron DBemark
/9  US AID
/10 Spain
/11 Am estimated share of 75K in the $150 million cost of the Dic.o- dam: France $52 million, Saudi Arabia 537 oillion,  uwait $15 mnillion  cod African Development
Bask $26 million.
/12 Inclu-des 1~B~      20  flion fanoI   tos  fo dl$17 million, tlhR                               thisjciuf    t             a    on    ,  .-    ,tmt
-   ra conotderail onY4ltow   f s sr~ tern cap 2cl. an tsssue OnhccR  ha9gtvB Ovalreo  thovesUdul  item may  on  
/13 a .nsI or.~Ft,~r, ta                                                                                                    odor tTar e2a    of dassd,rs-em-m   on publA           i   loans
/13 Includes STABEX $73  il n,IMF truss fund $9 -:li-  sod 55  jiilion SIR aliu..Lcos-                                                                                            April 1979



SENEGAI - DEB * AND CEREEIMOET HINE0S                                 ANNEX T
Page 6
(mil ions cf c1rrent US dollars)
Actuals                                    _  Estimates             1978          Pro jecti.ns
1970       1971 -     19 72      1973       [974.      1975          1976       197 7         1979       1979       1990       1995
A.  REDtiUd ANED L0NG-TERM
DEBT _Iisbursed Only)
1.  Total Pu,blic Debt Outstanding                102.8      125.5      138.6       202.2      248.1      299.0         352.9       440.6        637.6       708.0      746.0      1865
2.  Incloding Undisbursed                         144.4      173.9      219.2       367.2      432.4      532.7         609.8       812.3       1060.0    1097.0    1197.0         2386
3.  Public Debt Service                             6.0       12.2       13.4        29.4       33.6       39.8          42.9        56.6         99.3      125.8       157.8       268
a.  Interest                                    1.4        4.3        4.9        7.2       13.9        18.6          18.3       21.0          31.4       40.8       41.9         71
b.  Amortization                                4.6        7.9        8.5       22.2       19.7       21.2           24.6       37.6          67.9       85.0      114.9        197
4.  Other Mf& LT Debt Secvice1-                     7.8        6.3         7.4       27.22      32.12      21.9           21.8       23.7         24.7        29./       27.9        17
a.  Other Interest                              3.3        0.1        0.4        1.9        4.9        9.5            8.5         9.5          9.5       13.5        10.5         7
6.  Amortization/                               4.5        6.2        7.0       25.3       27.2        12.4          131. 3      14.2         15.2       16.2        17.4        10
5.  Total Debt Service                             13.8       18.5        20.8       56.6       65.7       61.7          64.7        82.3        124.0       155.5      185.7       285
6.  Net investment income                          10.0       11.0        12.0       17.0       26.0       37.0           L2.0       14.0          14.0       15.0       15.0        40
7.  Total payment on foreign capital               23.8       29.5        32.8       73.6       91.7       98.7           76.7       96.3        138.0       170.5      200.7       325
B.  DEBT BURDEN
1.  Public Debt Service Ratio                       2.5        5.3        3.9         8.2        5.6        5.8           6.1         6.5         15.9        14.7       16.2        15.8
2.  Paymest on Foreign Capital Ratio               10.0       12.8         9.8       20.7/2    15.2L2    14.2             10.9       13.6          22.2       19.9       20.6        19.2
3.  Public Debt Service/GDP                         0.2        1.4        1.2         2.4        2.4        2.1            2.2        3.0          4.8         4.7        5.2         5.4
4.  Public Debt ServiceiGovt. Revenue/3              -         5.9         2.3        3,6        4.5        5.2            7.2       12.2          14.4       19.0       17.6        12.7
C.  TERMS
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                1.4        3.4        3.5         3.5       5.6         6.2           5.2         4.8          4.9         5.8        5.6        -3.8
2.  Total Debt ServiceiTotal DOD                   5.8        9.7        9.7        14.5       13.5       13.3          12.2        13.3          15.6       17,8       21.2       -14.4
D.  DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M & LT DEBTL4
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports  (incI. NFS         6.9        7.8        5.1       20.7/5       8.1        9.7            9.7       14.1         27.4        16.7       13.9        10.6
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                5.1        5.1         2.9       16.1        5.2        7.1            6.8        9.4          19.8        8.1        3.4         4.8
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disborsements                0.74       0.65        0.58       0.78       0.64       0.73           0.70       0.67          0.72       0.48       0.25        0.31
E.  EXPOSURE-
1.  IBRD Disb./Total Gross Disbursements            0.5        0.9        1.9         0.7        1.5        9.2            5.7       j1.4           4.4        8.7       11.6        12.2
2.  Bank Group Disb./Total Gross Disbursements 4.9             9.3        23.7        3.9       20.9       24.5           20.2       U8.2           9.5       16.7       23.4         18.2
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                              2.2        1.8         1.7        1.4        1.3        3.4            4.1        6.2           5.8        7.0        8.3        10.3
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                       10.7       12.6        13.1       11.5       14.0       17.9           19.8       20.4          17.6       19.3       21.8        19.4
5.  IBRD Debt ServicetTotal Debt Service            4.1        3.2         3.0        1.8        1.9        1.9            2.9        3.5           3.7        3.5        3.4          8.1
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service 4.2             3.7         3.8        2.1        2.5        2.6            3.7        4.5           4.5        4.2        4.0          8.9
P.  EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed Only)                                             Outstanding Dec. 31, 1978                               Outstanding December 1985
Amount              Percent                             Amount              Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                    37.2                 5.8                               !9t15                10.3
2.  IDA                                                                     75.0                11.8-                              169.2                 9.1
3.  Other Multilateral                                                      40.5                 6.3                               116.0                  6.2
4.  Governments                                                            202.0                31.7                               749.0                40.2
5.  Suppliers                                                               17.1                 2.7
6.  Prefinancing of Public Works                                            15.3                 2.4                              (638.5                (34.2
7.  Private Banks and Financial Institutions                               247.1                38.8
8.  Bonds                                                                    3.4                 0.5                                 1.2
9.  Total Public M & LT Debt                                               637.6               100.0                              1865.4                100.0
10.  Total Public M & LT Debt (incl. nndish.)                              1059.9               166.2                              2386.0                127.9
G.  TOTAL DEBT SERVICE 1977-81/DOD end-1976                    177.82
/1  "Other Debt Service" has been calculated from the balance of payments; interest payments include those on the negative net foreign assets of the banking system and
short-term commercial loans; in view. of the amount of "other debt service" payments we estimate total foreign borrowing outside the public sector at the end of
1976 at $100 million.
/2 High private capital repayments probably related to Government's participation policy.
/3 Debt seryice to be paid by the Treasury only (fiscal years).
/4 Public debt only.
/5 High Eurodollar borrowing to finance Government's participation policy.
Anril 1979



- 31 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1979)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan or                                                          (US$ Million)
Credit Number  Year   Borrower    Purpose                   Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Three Loans* and ten Credits fully disbursed                7.0    34.9
835-SE      1972   Regie des   Railway                 6.4                 0.2
Chemins de
fer du Senegal
336-SE      1972   Senegal      Housing Site
and Services                 8.0        3.0
866-SE      1973   OPTS         Telecommunications   6.2                   1.3
366-SE      1973   Senegal      Second Highway                  8.0        0.2
404-SE      1973   Senegal      Agriculture Credit              8.2        0.4
987-SE      1974   SOFISEDIT   Development Finance  3.0                    0.2
530-SE      1975   Senegal      Education                      15.0       10.0
549-SE)    1975   Senegal       Agric. Diversifi-
)                           cation               7.0     7.0        8.3
1113-SE)
578-SE      1976   Senegal      Terres Neuves II                2.0        0.2
1221T-SE      1976   Senegal      Feeder Roads           6.6                 3.2
1222-SE      1976   Senegal      Third Highway         15.0                 5.2
633-SE      1976   Senegal      Livestock                       4.2        3.3
647-SE      1976   Senegal      Second Sedhiou                  6.3        5.0
1332-SE      1976   SOFISEDIT   Second Development
Finance             4.2                 3.6
1405T-SE      1977   Senegal      Port of Dakar          6.0                 4.8
1412T-SE      1977   Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism  8.0                   7.1
1413-SE      1977   Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism  5.6                   5.0
764-SE      1978   Senegal      Para-Public Sector
Tech. Asst.                  6.3        5.7
775-SE      1978   Senegal      Irrigation                     20.0       19.2
1518-SE      1978   RCFS         Railways III          11.0       -        10.9
1665-SE      1979   ASECNA       Second Airport         7.0       -         7.0
Total                                     93.0   119.9        98.2
of which has been repaid                 3.9      0.3
Total now outstanding                     89.1   119.6
Amount sold                                3.4
of which has been repaid                 1.1
2.3
1/
Total now held by  Bank and IDA -         86.8   119.6
Total Undisbursed                         55.5    48.3       103.8
*    A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in
1969 was cancelled on March 25, 1971.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1979)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Year          Obligor             Type of Business       Loan   Investment   Total
1967   Societe Industrielle    Fertilizer Plant         2.45         1.01     3.46
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972)  BUD Senegal
1973)  S.A.                      Vegetable Export         -         0.87      0.87
1976)
1974   SOFISEDIT                 Development
Finance Company         -          0.21      0.21
Total Gross Commitments                          2.45        2.09      4.54
Less Cancellations, Terminations                 2.45        0.88      3.33
Total Commitments now held by IFC                 -          1.21      1.21
Undisbursed Balance
C. Projects in Execution
Cr. 314/      Second Railway Project; US$2.2 Million and US$6.4 Million
Ln. 835       Credit and Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective December 29, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Railway's efficiency has been severely hindered by poor manage-
ment, a severe shortage of qualified supervisory staff, insufficient motiva-
tion of staff at all levels, deficient training combined with cumbersome
financial governmental regulations hampering day-to-day operations. This
resulted in slow project implementation and inadequate traffic performance
that has led to decreasing revenues and acute financial problems. These
financial problems have in turn prevented the Railway from purchasing badly
needed spare parts for motive power and track maintenance equipment. Loan/
Credit funds were consequently reallocated from appraised items to the
provision of spare parts by deleting some project elements, notably reduction
of the procurement of rails and fittings from a planned 170 km to 125 km, of
which only 28 km were laid under the project because of lack of local funds.
The project is now almost completed. The only unfinished items are the final
positioning of the workshop cranes and disbursement of payment for this
work.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. 336       Sites and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of September
29, 1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Plot occupancy which started in November 1977, two years behind the
original schedule, continues to be very slow. About 900 houses are in various
stages of construction by allottees and only 50 families are in residence on
the site, despite the start-up of an Immediate Action Plan focussing princi-
pally on the first tranche, which was developed during Spring 1978 to remedy
the situation and which was endorsed by the Government. The newly appointed
Minister of Urbanism and the Project Director visited Headquarters in the Fall
of 1978 for discussions with Bank staff to remedy the situation. Agreements
were reached on the ceiling and terms of building material loans for eligible
allottees, design standards of housing units for the poorest of the project
population, and restructuring of the Project Unit to deal with the last phase
of the project.
Cr. 404       Second Agriculture Credit Project; US$8.2 Million Credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective November 18, 1973; Closing Date:
May 31, 1979
The 1978/79 season was good: groundnut and cereal production
reached near record levels; fertilizer use, after falling to 70,000 tons in
1977/78, increased to 100,000 tons. Demand for short-term credit remained
stronger than anticipated, but available credit funds were sufficient to
meet requirements. Demand for medium-term credit is still not met because
of Government's desire to limit cooperative indebtedness. As a result, on-
farm intensification programs are failing to reach their objectives. Govern-
ment is re-introducing the subsidy on some farm implements, and increasing
the subsidy on fertilizers. The study of fertilizer applications financed
under the Credit is now completed; ongoing data analysis should provide a
basis for policy review in due course. Major organizational and financial
problems still exist at the groundnut marketing entity: steps taken by Gov-
ernment in early 1975 and again in mid-1978 to remedy this serious situation
have resulted in some limited improvement in accounting, but overall perform-
ance remains poor and the organization overstaffed. The Government has agreed
in principle to make some of the outstanding Credit balance available to
finance preparation of a proposed Agricultural Research Project. The Closing
Date has therefore been extended until May 31, 1979 to permit the necessary
administrative arrangements.
Loan 987      SOFISEDIT Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1974;
Effective November 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979;
SOFISEDIT was created in March 1974 for the purpose of providing
long-term financing for developing enterprises in industry and tourism. The
first line of credit of US$3 million is now fully committed, and the existing
balance of US$200,000 should be disbursed shortly. A Project Completion
Report is being prepared.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Ln. 866       Telecommunications Project; US$6.3 Million Loan of December 19,
1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is designed to improve the quality of telecommunications
service in Dakar and in parts of northern Senegal. Delays in procurement,
a 100 percent cost overrun, changes in top management, and ineffective timing
of project execution, are the main causes of a three-year delay in project
implementation. As a result, the Closing Date has been postponed to December
31, 1979. Project implementation is now progressing satisfactorily, the main
installation was successfully commissioned by December 1978, and project
completion is expected by June 1979. During 1978, the Borrower made signif-
icant efforts to improve its management, as well as its accounting and finan-
cial organization. This, together with the audits and financial advisors
financed through the IDA Parapublic Sector Project, should lead to substantial
improvement of the institution during the coming months.
Cr. 366       Second Highway Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of April 9, 1973;
Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project consists of pavement strengthening of primary roads,
a four-year maintenance program, and preinvestment studies. The strengthening
program was reduced from 110 km to about 34 km as a result of higher costs
than estimated at appraisal, and high inflation during project execution. The
reduced program was satisfactorily completed in May 1976. The remaining 75 km
were strengthened under the Third Highway Project (Ln. 1222). The highway
maintenance program ended in June 1977. Due to management problems and
insufficient allocation of funds, objectives were not entirely met, and the
technical assistance was extended to June 30, 1978 under the Third Highway
Project. The preinvestment studies for 228 km of primary roads, and the
review of feeder road requirements have been-successfully completed. The
Closing Date of the Credit has been extended to December 31, 1979 to com-
pensate for the one-year delay in project completion.
Cr. 530       Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of February 19,
1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Project implementation is about 30 months behind schedule because
of design and contract award delays. These delays, together with a 10%
decline in the value of the US dollar, resulted in a cost overrun of about
US$6 million. To help compensate for these increased costs, the Government
has decided to reduce the scope of the project by reducing the number of
science centers from 11 to 8 and the number of rural youth training centers
from 30 to 15, and is seeking another external source of finance for the
construction and equipping of the Hotel Training School. The Vocational
Training Center has started some upgrading programs and is expected to be
fully operational by mid-1979. Construction of the science centers and
secondary schools is progressing well and is expected to be completed towards
end-1979. The rural youth training program is progressing slowly, but modified
educational objectives and a revised implementation schedule have been agreed
with the Government, and it is expected that 15 experimental centers will be
operating by the end of 1981.



- 35 -                       ANX1
AN~NEX II
Page 5
Cr. 549/     Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Million Credit and
Ln. 1113     US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of strengthening the extension service to
induce farmers to intensify their agricultural practices, which is estimated
to lead to higher yields. However, results over the project's first three
years show that yield increases have been negligible. The project authority,
in agreement with the Bank, has therefore decided on a re-orientation in which
its extension services are being reorganized and retrained, with more emphasis
put on actions which have had favorable results such as the promotion of maize
production in the South, and the integration of agricultural and animal hus-
bandry in the North. While it is too early to judge the effect of this re-
orientation, the first serious effort with the production of millet and maize
under contract is proving to be highly successful in the 1978/79 season.
Cr. 578      Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical
Assistance Project; US$2.0 Million Credit of August 6, 1975;
Effective November 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project consists of: (i) settling 600 families over a three
year period in Eastern Senegal and providing the necessary infrastructure;
and (ii) preparing a master plan for agricultural development of the Eastern
Senegal Region. Despite the project being one year behind schedule with 500
families settled to date, which has no serious consequences, previously
expected cost overruns could be avoided. The project is, however, encountering
financial problems because first, disbursement of counterpart funds has been
seriously delayed, and second, the 1978/79 budget was not being entirely
funded. The master plan study has been completed, and an Eastern Senegal
Agricultural Development Project based on this study is now being prepared.
Ln. 1221T    Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of improvement of about 1,000 km of feeder
roads and maintenance of about 250 km of existing feeder roads; purchase of
highway equipment and spare parts, and of materials and supplies for project
operations; technical assistance for project implementation and monitoring;
construction of HQ building for the Bureau des Pistes de Production (BPP).
The project has experienced serious delays, the main reasons being insuffi-
cient financial, managerial, and logistic support. Government is seeking some
measures to accelerate works, but even so it is envisaged that the Loan
Closing Date will have to be postponed by at least 2 years, and that the
total length of roads improved will be less than expected at appraisal. Works
executed so far are of satisfactory technical quality.
Ln. 1222     Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 5, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of pavement strengthening of 199 km of pri-
mary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvestment



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
studies, highway maintenance, and development of the domestic construction
industry. The project is proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule. The road
maintenance program begun under the Second Highway Project, and extended under
this project, should be further continued under the proposed Fourth Highway
Project to strengthen the road maintenance organization and operations. About
US$2.5 million of the Bank loan will accrue to the project due to currency
realignments (US$1 = CFAF 225 at appraisal and CFAF 245 during project execu-
tion), and shorter execution period for the pavement strengthening program.
The Government is preparing proposals for the utilization of these funds.
Cr. 633       Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit of
June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project aims at improving livestock production in Eastern Senegal
through improved grazing and herd management practices of pastoralists, devel-
opment of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal health
services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program. Parallel fi-
nancing was obtained from the Kuwait Fund and BADEA. Project implementation
is progressing on schedule. The 1976/77 and 1977/78 vaccination campaigns
proceeded satisfactorily; the 1978/79 calpaign started in November 1978.
Thirteen Pastoral Units covering 3200 km or 1/5 of the project area have been
demarcated, 64 villages and 5200 inhabitants have been organized through the
election of managing committees, and concrete action with 23,000 cattle has
started. The inventory of all existing wells and ponds in the grazing scheme
area has been completed as well as the siting of 29 wells, of which 5 are
under construction. Vehicles and equipment have been purchased and firebreak
construction is expected to start soon. On the other hand, there has been
little progress in civil works, certain project activities are not yet fully
integrated with those of the executing agency, SODEFITEX, and SODEFITEX is
having to prefinance certain expenses because of slow disbursement procedures
by BADEA and the Kuwait Fund.
Cr. 647       Second Sedhiou Project; US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25, 1976;
Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project aims at improving crop production through (i) yield
increases and (ii) increases in farm size by the use of animal traction.
Due to low rainfall, yields remained below appraisal estimates. However,
groundnut production exceeded forecasts, while foodgrain production was sub-
stantially lower (40-70 percent of appraisal estimates). The actual results
of the 1978/79 campaign are not yet known, but should be good given the
adequate rainfall. Results of the livestock component are disappointing up to
now, and a consultant has been called upon to review this component. The
project had major financial problems because counterpart funds were not
made available by Government. This problem has been temporarily resolved
through a special loan from the Senegalese Treasury. Work on the development
plan for the Casamance Region by the project's planning unit is now completed,
after a 5-month delay.



- 37 -                       ANNEX II
Page 7
Ln. 1332      Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14,
1976; Effective April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
In addition to providing SOFISEDIT with credit for investments in
industry and tourism, the Second SOFISEDIT Loan is financing a pilot scheme of
assistance to small-scale Senegalese businesses and artisans through SONEPI,
the local industrial promotion agency. SOFISEDIT's use of the Second Loan has
been slower than anticipated, with only $600,000 disbursed as of February 28,
1979.
Ln. 1405T    Dakar Fishing Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1977;
Effective March 20, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The civil works are progressing satisfactorily, but costs will
increase because domestic cement is in short supply, and marine quality cement
now has to be imported. Exoneration of the project from further taxes may
possibly offset these increases, but some adjustment of the financing plan
could be necessary later. Traffic has increased significantly, particularly
phosphate exports, tuna transshipment, and oil products. Port operations
have been normal. The container facilities and port master plan study has
commenced, and consultants for fishing port operations and the fishing sector
study are being appointed. Statistics and accounts, including introduction
of analytical accounting, are considerably in arrears due to staffing con-
straints and tardiness of the Government computer centers. The Bank is
urging and assisting Government and the Port authorities to resolve the
problems, which will almost certainly intensify unless remedied early. The
Port's finances have improved appreciably due to tariff increases and increased
traffic. The Port's general performance is good, and the project is being
implemented satisfactorily.
Ln. 1412T    Petite Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5.6 Million
Ln. 1413     Loans of June 7, 1977; Effective January 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
All project implementing agencies are expeditiously carrying out
early project implementation which includes preparation of final design
and bidding documents for the project works, and awarding of construction
contracts. Construction of infrastructure is expected to begin in early
1979; construction of common facilities in June 1979; and renovation works
on Goree Island in December 1979. Promotion of hotel investments in the
project area is expected to yield its first results by June 1979. Two hotel
investors are interested in using the executing agency's equity funds for
their projects, and negotiations are advancing to this effect.
Ln. 1518     Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17, 1978;
Effective August 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance; supply
of material and equipment, improvement of telecommunications facilities and
track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive power and rolling
stock, establishment of a training center, and supply of training equipment



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
and training studies. Delay in Loan effectiveness and change in the scope and
location of the track rehabilitation component resulted in delayed implementa-
tion. However, the project is now progressing satisfactorily and bids have
been called for all items to be procured under ICB. Traffic and operating
performance improved during the first two quarters of 1978 mainly as a result
of the competence and motivation of newly appointed Senegalese staff and
French technical assistance. This encouraging trend was temporarily reversed
by two heavy train accidents which completely destroyed two locomotives, and
the collapse of a small bridge which halted international traffic for about
two weeks. Extended utilization of Malian locomotives in Senegal, the purchase
of two heavy Canadian locomotives, and the delivery of project-financed spare
parts, will help the Railway overcome its problems and reach its traffic
objectives.
Cr. 764       Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project; US$6.3 Million
Credit of March 17, 1978; Effective June 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The main objective of the Project is the strengthening and the
improvement of the Government's departments in charge of monitoring the
development and day-to-day management of the para-public sector in order
to help meet the sector's medium- and long-term targets. To achieve this
objective, the project comprises (a) the provision of four advisors to the
Financial Controller of the Presidency and of two advisors to the Center
for Public Enterprises of the Ministry of Finance over three years; (b) the
carrying-out of three successive annual financial and economic audits and
the reorganization of budget, financial, and accounting procedures of four
key public enterprises and three mixed companies; and (c) the provision of
two advisors over three years to the Bureau d'Organisation et Methodes to
improve this department's capacity to train managers and accountants of the
sector's public enterprises and mixed companies. The advisors under parts
(a) and (c) of the project arrived in the field in late 1978 and early 1979.
The audits provided under part (b) are well underway.
Cr. 775       Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
March 17, 1978; Effective June 30, 1978; Closing Date: June
30, 1983
The Credit became effective on schedule, June 30, 1978. The Debi-
Lampsar Engineering Credit (S18-SE) was refinanced and its undisbursed balance
disbursed directly from Credit 775-SE. Physical implementation started in
December 1978. Since civil works equipment were already in place, the delay
in start-up, estimated at 6 months, is expected to be made up during project
execution. A joint IDA/FAC mission has assessed the project authority SAED's
managerial competence and will shortly submit detailed recommendations designed
to strengthen SAED's performance.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan 1665-SE Second Aviation Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of April 18, 1979;
Not Yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of strengthening and levelling the main runway
and taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport, and instal-
lation of navigation and visual approach aids at Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring
airports.



- 4o -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) First Bank mission to consider the project: July 1977
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  Government and consultants
(c) Date of departure of appraisal mission: June 1978
(d) Date of completion of negotiations: April 1979
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1979
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions by IDA
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations, the following principal items were dis-
cussed, and the Government has provided assurances that:
(a) INEADE, ENSET, INDR, and ESGE will be established by
November 1, 1979, with internal organization, legal status,
and teaching program structures acceptable to the Association
(paras. 45, 47, 53 and 56);
(b) the Vocational Training and Upgrading Center (CFPP) and the
Pre-employment Vocation Training Center (CQID) will be
integrated into a single autonomous institution by June 30,
1983 (para. 50);
(c) adequate budgetary provisions will be made for operation and
maintenance of all project-assisted institutions; also,
during the budget year prior to opening of new institutions
to be established under the project, the Government will
review and agree with the Association on adequate budgetary
provisions to be made (para. 64);
(d) the qualifications, experience, terms of reference, and terms
and conditions of employment of all expatriate specialists,
consultants, and sub-contracting agencies financed under the
project, as well as of candidates for management positions
in INDR and ESGE will be reviewed and agreed with the
Association (paras. 54, 57, and 65);



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) fellowships will be awarded to suitably qualified persons
for training programs satisfactory to the Association, and
fellowship holders will be required to serve at least three
years in the positions for which they are trained (para. 65);
(f) all land required for construction of the project facilities
will be acquired by September 30, 1979 (para. 65);
(g) a revolving fund financed from the Government budget for
payment of its local contribution to the proposed project
will be established by December 31, 1979, under arrangements
agreed with the Association (para. 68); and
(h) an account will be opened in a commercial bank to establish a
revolving fund financed by the Association, to be operated
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association
(Condition of Effectiveness, para. 68).
An additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit will
be the fulfillment of conditions prior to effectiveness of the EEC Special
Action Agreement (paras. 61, 66, and 67).
A condition of disbursement from the proposed IDA Credit for
civil works for the National College of Agriculture to be financed jointly
with CCCE will be the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to an initial
disbursement from the CCCE loan (paras. 62 and 67).






MO      O        j         ALGERItA            LfA
HIRD  ~~SENEGAL                                                                                          M A URtT A N I A
TIDEDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                            TM
*-W--Iremgtiorg I bandarjes                                                                                                                                                                                                          INA Li       /     NIE
"oegr bIeaIoSEGL \f%LI                                                                                                                                                                                                             / 
-----Depaelrt.   to] bounrdaes                                                         GA,                                                                                                                             .4p'                              f..e
N010.r"onal  aRlg                                                                                                                                                                                   GWA-         4-N(Ee             T}
*     Regrn.1 cOpIlgIs                                                                                                 0                                                                                                                          NIGERAA
Oep.,rbm,,lal coprtrnls                                                                                                                                                                          SER   A        O1~~ 
~RIers                                                                             - -- ---
IntermteAtilO, strewers                       fIR f-AMRO
OCOOP                            012 ~~~~~~EQGUINEA
0  0   N-         --                            A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cd f
0Linrg.ere
/   aIebemner            --I'-  -~
A,,/an/I c                               RFG   I 0   IN                             I
REGION OF               o          r                'neo      D     I    0      U    R    B      E~-  L 
CAP-VERT  K~~~~~~~~~'k ~~M'bocke                                              --
ES    abey,AA 
9Diourbel                                       a-\
O cean                                  Boue r-                                                                                   I      ,-__                                  .~
IR GO NI  0 Fi S I N E -'S A L GUM  N
5of~~~u.-R                                                                            I G0        N           O', FM                                              A 
I ,~  Fynndroqere,  Kaolack x           0Kffrine 
14                                               7/)I
lea EDUCATION PROJECT:-
UiranDrrnrNeTeororSnaalnNTambnacoSundo                                                                                                                                                                     
Agrit-iail Thrilnisl Schdo                                                                                                                                                                 E NGaoAe  
M-hniran Marin Srhool 
2nd EDUCATION PaROJECT.G                                                A~
L.w- Sn-oda,y Schools 141 )~- 'N.3                                                                                                                                              jif            a
M-rhal Marine School 
Cnnrnn Science ad Technologe Cnn-r I)                                                                                                                                                  OR         I    E      N            
Rural Ed-ci-n Trin-ng C-olrs                                                                     1ia8                                                                                           -      1IA  
3rd EDUCATION PROJECT.                        ~ign~w                                               iVelingara                                                                      .*--    =/04 ~ -. 4VP
Primay T-aher Trainig Co1lege                                                                                                                                                      el -e
INDR                                       R E  G  IOrN                                O F                  C  AS5  AM   A 5N  C E
A1 EDGE  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       gIdg        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~      ~       a~~~~liOF54 ~~~t/0VL  PARK
ENSET                                             &5rng                       edna
0   9202049  Sp 6007O 04           95 I                                          i L                                                       -
Kilarerelers    -,    i~      ~    ~ ~~ ~ive                                                                                                                                                Kedougag
0                                    Caa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ssoauye\          ,-*I 
~GUINEA-BI5SAU                                                                                              )'                                        
CAPSKIRRINg..1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'*~~~                                                                                    u            



