                              Document of
                         The World Bank




                                                Report No:ICR-000041




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (Credit Number 3411-UG)

                               ON A

                              CREDIT

               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 36.2 MILLION

                 (US$ 48.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                 TO

                      REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                               FOR A

    PRIVATIZATION & UTILITY SECTOR REFORM PROJECT


                           JULY 31, 2006




Private Sector Development Unit
Africa Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         ( Exchange Rate Effective 05/22/2006 )
                                Currency Unit = Ush
                                     Ush 1.00 = US$ 0.00055
                                    US$ 1.00 = Ush 1832.75


                                        Fiscal Year
                                      July 1 - June 30
                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
DRIC  Divestiture and Reform Implementation Committee
EDP   Enterprise Development Project
ERA   Electricity Regulatory Agency
FDI   Foreign Direct Investment
GDP   Gross Domestic Product
GOU   Government of Uganda
IDA   International Development Association
LACI  Loan Administration Change Initiative
MFPED Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
NEMA National Environmental Management Authority
NWSC National Water and Sewerage Corporation
PCU   Project Coordinating Unit
PE   Public Enterprise
PEAP  Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PERD  Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture Statute
PMU  Parastatal Monitoring Unit
PPI  Private Participation in Infrastructure
PU    Privatization Unit
PUSRP Privatization and Utility Sector Reform Project
UCC   Uganda Communications Commission
UEB   Uganda Electricity Board
UEDCL Uganda Electricity Distribution Company Ltd
UEGCL Uganda Electricity Generation Company Ltd.
UJAS  Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy
URA   Uganda Revenue Authority
URC   Uganda Railways Corporation
URU   Utility Reform Unit




                            Vice President: Gobind T. Nankani
                         Country Director: Judy M. O'Connor
                          Sector Manager: Demba Ba
                     Project Team Leader: Lucy M. Fye




                                             1

                                          Uganda

                         Privatization & Utility Sector Reform



                                       CONTENTS


                                                                          Page No.

1. Basic Information                                                            3

2. Key Dates                                                                    3

3. Ratings Summary                                                              3

4. Sector and Theme Codes                                                       4

5. Bank Staff                                                                   4

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                           4

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                            8

8. Assessment of Outcomes                                                      10

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                                   15

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                                15

11. Lessons Learned                                                            17

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners       18

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis                                            19

Annex 2: Restructuring                                                         26

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing                                           27

Annex 4. Outputs by Component                                                  28

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis                                       37

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes         39

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                     42

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Result                                             43

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                               44

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR               45

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders             49

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents                                         50




                                             2

1. Basic Information

Country:                                                               Privatization & Utility
                        Uganda                 Project Name:
                                                                       Sector Reform

Project ID:                                                            IDA-34110,IDA-
                        P050439                L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       3411A
ICR Date:               08/22/2006             ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument: SIL                        Borrower:               REPUBLIC OF
                                                                       UGANDA
Original Total
Commitment:             XDR 36.2M              Disbursed Amount:       XDR 22.5M

Environmental Category:B
Implementing Agencies


Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review: 07/30/1999            Effectiveness:     01/31/2001        01/31/2001
Appraisal:         02/08/2000         Restructuring(s):                    12/14/2004
Approval:          08/24/2000         Mid-term Review: 01/24/2005          01/31/2005
                                      Closing:           01/31/2006        03/31/2013


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators      QAG Assessments (if any)          Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
                                 No            Quality at Entry (QEA):           None
time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time
                                 No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):     None
(Yes/No):
DO rating before
                                 Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:




                                              3

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                    52                55
Other social services                                                48                45
                                                        Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Regulation and competition policy                        Primary           Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization    Primary           Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                          At ICR         At Approval
                                                       Gobind T.         Callisto E.
Vice President:
                                                       Nankani           Madavo
Country Director:                                      Judy M. O'Connor James M. Adams
Sector Manager:                                        Demba Ba          Demba Ba
Project Team Leader:                                   Lucy M. Fye       Edgar Saravia
ICR Team Leader:                                       Lucy M. Fye
ICR Primary Author:                                    Linda Cotton


6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)


The Government of Uganda (GOU) started public enterprise (PE) sector reform and privatization
in 1992 when there were over 150 parastatals in virtually all sectors of the economy, employing
more than 30,000 people, accounting for 25 percent of total formal employment and generating
about 10 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The aim of the reforms was to redefine the
role of the state in the economy, reduce the financial and administrative burden of the PE sector on
Government, improve PE efficiency and encourage investment. At that point in time, PEs were
receiving direct and indirect subsidies at a cost of an estimated 50 percent of total government
revenues in 1992-93. PEs accounted for about 17.8 percent of total credit to the economy in 1992
and 3.8 percent of external debt obligations services during the 1980s in addition to accumulating
internal and external arrears. The Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture (PERD) statute was
passed in 1993 to allow for reducing the states share in economic activity and improving the
efficiency of remaining enterprises.

The Enterprise Development Project (EDP, Credit 2315-UG, 1993-2000) supported
implementation of the privatization program. As of end 1999, 93 divestures had been completed,



                                                 4

62 privatized and 31 liquidated. However, due to lack of transparency and allegations of
corruption, Parliament suspended the program in early 1999 and began an investigation by the
Parliamentary Select Committee on Privatization. Detailed procedures were approved in June
1999 during preparation of this project. The PERD statute was amended in 2000 to clarify the
roles and responsibilities of the various bodies and establish clear procedures. These actions
signaled the commitment of the GOU to transparent and high quality privatization transactions.

In utilities, reforms during the previous decade had been slow due to the piecemeal sectoral
approach taken to restructure each sector separately, lack of clarity on the institutional
responsibility to lead the process and weak capacity to design and manage the reforms.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project's development objective is to improve the quality, coverage and economic efficiency
of commercial and utility services, through privatization, private participation in infrastructure
(PPI) and an improved regulatory framework. This objective will be achieved by a higher level of
private investment, and better quality and access of services in telecommunication, water,
electricity and transport sectors divestiture and improved efficiency of remaining public
enterprises (PEs); and strengthening of the regulatory framework and institutions in relevant
sectors.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "the primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)

1) Private Sector - The business community (in particular, mining, tourism, construction, and
retail) was to enjoy business opportunities through privatization. It also was to benefit from better
quality of utility services and reduced costs of factors of production, leading to increased
competitiveness of the economy.

2) Local Population - As end users of the utility services, the local population was to benefit
significantly through increased quantity, quality and accessibility of infrastructure services. As for
the retrenched staff from the public enterprise workforce, they were to receive their severance pay
in a timely manner and benefit from programs to help integrate them into other economic
activities.

3) Government - The project was to help the GOU implement its privatization and utility sector
reform program resulting in lower fiscal and administrative burdens on the government budget.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)



                                             5

Part A: Capacity Building for Privatization, (US$25.5 million IDA allocated, 56.3 percent)

1. Technical Assistance. Strengthening the technical, legal, accounting and investment banking
capacity of the Government of Uganda's (GOU's) departments and agencies responsible for
privatization through the provision of technical advisory services for (i) the bidding and listing of
the remaining public enterprises (PEs) on the GOU's stock exchange; and (ii) the development
and carrying out of any employee share ownership schemes required by the applicable divestiture
programs.

2. Retrenchment Program. The carrying out of a program designed to mitigate the social impact of
labor retrenchment including (i) the funding of a portion of severance and other retrenchment
costs of staff of the PEs; and (ii) the provision of technical advisory services to assist in the
carrying out of the program, including counseling and retraining.

3. Communication Program for Privatization. The carrying out of a communication program
designed to: (a) strengthen public confidence in the transparency of the GOU's divestiture
procedures; and (b) convince the public of the GOU's commitment to: (i) the carrying out of its
divestiture strategy, and (ii) the selection of a sound and appropriate method for the privatization,
including; (A) initiatives by the GOU to explain the benefits of its privatization and divestiture
program to specific targeted audiences; (B) provision by the GOU of relevant information to
management and employees of PEs scheduled for privatization; (C) the development of a
specially tailored employee relations program to explain, among other things, the benefits and
protection which the said program can offer to the employees; and (D) the establishment of means
through which stakeholders can express their opinions and concerns on privatization and
divestiture issues and also provide feedback to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) on
stakeholders' perceptions on privatization and divestiture issues.

4. Communication Strategy for PUSRP. The designing and carrying out of the overall
communications strategy for the project, including a determination of the costs associated with the
production of promotional and information materials, through the provision of technical advisory
services.

5. Environmental Liabilities. The preparation of comprehensive environmental audits and
remediation plans for the PEs scheduled for privatization, including the determination of
responsibility for pre-existing environmental liabilities and their clean-up, through the provision
of technical advisory services. (b) The preparation and carrying out of de-commissioning plans for
the PEs and assets scheduled for closure, through the provision of technical advisory services. (c)
The preparation and monitoring of environmental management plans to bring privatized
enterprises into compliance with environmental requirements mandated by Ugandan laws and
regulations, through the provision of technical advisory services.

Part B: Strengthening Financial Oversight of Public Enterprises, (US$1.9 million IDA
allocated, 4.2 percent)

The carrying out of financial oversight of PEs with a view to (i) improving financial discipline in
the public enterprise sector and facilitating the settlement of cross arrears (A) between the GOU



                                               6

and PEs and (B) among public enterprises; and (ii) reducing budgetary subsidies to the PEs,
through the provision of technical advisory services and training. This includes the acquisition of
equipment required for the financial oversight of PEs.

Part C: Utility Sector Reform (US$9.0 million IDA allocated, 19.9 percent)

The design and carrying out of reforms in the utility sector to improve the quality of, and increase
access to, telecommunications, electricity, water and sewage, and rail transport services. The
finalization of the design and operation of new sector structures in the telecommunications,
electricity, rail transport and water and sewage services through the provision of technical
advisory services, training and the selection of private sector buyers and concessionaires
interested in the acquisition of public enterprises in the sectors referred to above. The preparation
of proposals for regulatory reforms in the electricity, railways, and water and sanitation services
through the provision of technical advisory services for (i) the establishment and building up of
the capacity of independent regulators in the telecommunications, electricity, water and sewage,
and transportation sectors; (ii) the training of staff; (iii) the conclusion of twinning arrangements
with foreign regulators; and (iv) the acquisition of equipment for the relevant regulatory body.

Part D: Project Management (US$8.9 million IDA allocated, 19.6 percent)

The training of project staff in (i) privatization policies, procedures and regulation; and (ii) project
planning, accounting, auditing, procurement and other project management skills, through the
provision of technical advisory services.

6.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

There were two amendments to the Development Credit Agreement. The first amendment in 2002
added a Special Account for severance payments, created a new category of expenditures for
audits, and revised aggregate procurement amounts upwards for National Competitive Bidding
and National Shopping. The second amendment in 2004 reallocated US$5.5 million to support the
concessioning of the Uganda Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (UEDCL). Specific
amendments included the addition of a new component to backstop a Letter of Credit Facility, and
the extension of the Closing Date to March 31, 2013 for one component. This component will
allow for disbursements of the Credit to the L/C issuing bank in the event of a repayment default
by UEDCL. The project will be supervised by the Africa Region Energy Group after January 31,
2006 until the second closing date of March 31, 2013 and a supplemental ICR covering activities
associated with UEDCL will be prepared within six months of Closing. Although there is an
undisbursed and uncommitted amount of about US$10 million, an extension was not granted
because Bank management considered the majority of the projects objectives met.




                                               7

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Project preparation was participatory and included representatives from relevant ministries,
parliament, labor unions and the private sector. Project design consisted largely of adapting the
structures of the previous project, the Enterprise Development Project (EDP), to the new context.
Lessons learned in previous privatization projects were taken into account when designing the
PUSRP. These were as follows: inadequate legal and institutional arrangements, ill-defined
responsibilities and accountability, unclear divestiture procedures, lack of broad-based ownership
of the program, lack of transparency in a number of transactions, failure by the executing agency
to collect payments from buyers and the financial burden resulting from PE employment
retrenchment costs.

Government showed its commitment to reversing the negative experiences of EDP with the
approval and adoption of a 2000 amendment to the Public Enterprises Reform and Divestiture
(PERD) Statute of 1993, with IDA inputs. The amendment clarified the roles of various actors in
the process and a divestiture procedures manual was approved, which includes provisions
regarding the use of privatization proceeds. Also approved during project preparation was the
Uganda Power Sector Restructuring and Privatization Strategy.

Institutional arrangements were based on EDP but refined by the amendment to the PERD statue
which was approved before PUSRP became effective. These arrangements were one of the major
factors for ensuring transparency, accountability and efficiency, (see Annex 4).

One of the risks identified was a reduction in government commitment to privatization which was
judged to be modest, given the commitment to previous privatization projects and solid
government involvement in preparation of PUSRP. The risk that there would be weak private
sector response to privatization opportunities was also modest. The water and electricity sectors
became less attractive world-wide during the project period, though there is little more that could
have been done to mitigate these trends. The risk that government commitment to implement
regulatory frameworks was rightly judged as substantial, as in the case of water and railways,
independent, capable regulatory institutions were not established. Likewise, interference from
political and vested interests were able to slow the privatization of a few companies and the water
sector. The utility reforms that have taken place, though, were completed in close cooperation
with line ministries and are unlikely to be reversed. The government-established guidelines on the
use of privatization proceeds have helped to avoid a lack of progress due to insufficient funds for
retrenchment. Social unrest has largely been limited, due to the establishment of a uniform policy
on retrenchment benefits and swift payment of laid-off workers. The possible exception to this
may be the railway workers strike in June 2005 due to the difference in payments given to
Ugandan workers versus Kenyan workers.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)



                                              8

The market for international investments in the water sector changed so that the perception of
risks associated with the sector in sub-Saharan Africa were deemed too high. In the electricity
sector, the collapse of Enron led to the emergence of alternative investment opportunities which
proved more attractive than Uganda, reducing competition in the bidding and the leverage of the
GOU in negotiations.

There were various sector and strategy reversals which delayed the divestiture program. For
example, Parliament reclassified the Uganda Printing and Publishing Corporation and National
Medical Stores after the divestiture processes had started. In other cases the GOU had agreed to
specific divestiture plans but then changed the type of transaction, requiring renewed consensus
building among stakeholders as well as additional fees for transaction advisors, most notably in
the cases of the Dairy Corporation and Kinyara Sugar.

Adding the $5.5 million for the UEDCL letter of credit to the disbursed amount of $31.8 million
in IDA funds, yields an expenditure rate of 82 percent for the project at final closure in 2013.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Relatively well-designed, detailed key performance indicators of output and outcome were
identified at the beginning of the project and were regularly updated by the Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU), (Annex 4). The Parastatal Monitoring Unit was proficient in the consistent gathering
useful data and creation of new indicators as needed. The project was exceptionally good in terms
of the quality and quantity of tracked indicators, which assisted in monitoring progress.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

During project preparation it was realized that some of the enterprises to be privatized involved
environmentally sensitive activities (industrial manufacturing, mining, sugar production, utility
services). In this regard, an environmental audit was carried out to categorize the task involved in
each enterprise. Some of the enterprises needed full assessments and the PUSRP was deemed a
category B (partial assessment) project. During project implementation, the environmental
assessments were carried out for 11 enterprises and some enterprises needed decommissioning
plans which were largely completed. However, the assessments and the decommissioning plans
revealed that the task involved for some of the enterprises in the mining sector (Kasese, Kilembe
and Lake Katwe) were beyond the capacity, resources and the mandate of PUSRP. Moreover, the
National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) partially carried out the monitoring and
compliance on the action plans due to frequent changes of staff in NEMA. Compliance with
environmental safeguards was rated satisfactory throughout the project as most of the work was
related to conducting the studies and the decommissioning plans. At the closing of the project, it
was strongly suggested that the Ministry of Energy and Mining take over the responsibility of the
mining enterprises as they were unprivatizable.

For the first half of the project, there were problems with the quality of the procurement
documents submitted to IDA. Slow procurement affected the implementation of some



                                             9

components, including the training of regulators, environmental audits and decommissioning
plans. Several steps were taken to address the issues. Greater communication between PCU and
IDA was instituted with monthly clearance of pending issues. Processing began to be done from
the Country Office instead of at Headquarters. The Procurement Advisor who helped with the
original procurement plan also returned to assist with major procurements. Procurement planning
improved considerably. An ex-post procurement review (PPR) conducted in May 2004 deemed
the overall system satisfactory.

During 2001 and 2002 disbursement was low due to procurement problems and government
interference in some privatization transactions. The procurement problems were largely solved but
government interference continued. This was a result of the mentioned changes in sectoral policy
direction and frequent changes of privatization approaches on the part of the GOU. The slow start
resulted in a difference between the disbursement plans and the actual amount disbursed
throughout the project. However, disbursement picked up considerably in 2003 and continued to
progress without major delays.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Moving the PU and PMU into the Ministry of Finance is envisioned in order to complete the
remaining privatizations and utility sector reforms. In addition, there is a need for work on post-
privatization issues (e.g. advisory services for the management of leases, concessions, and
contract renegotiations), and on promoting additional public-private partnerships. The GOU has
officially communicated that the agencies still have a mandate to conclude privatizations and
public-private participation transactions for the next three years. The agencies are to be scaled
down and absorbed into the Ministry of Finance, who will pay salaries (albeit, within their pay
scales which are lower than current levels). There are concerns among staff about losing
operational independence and about the differential in pay. The possibility of supporting the
completion of remaining privatizations under the ongoing Private Sector Competitiveness Project
II is currently being explored. Also under discussion is the transfer of responsibilities for
implementation of decommissioning plans for mines into the new mining sector project.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The objectives, design and implementation of the project are relevant to current country and Bank
assistance policies. The GOU's Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) of 2004 focuses on
objectives grouped under five pillars:1) Economic management, 2) Enhancing competitiveness,
production and incomes, 3) Security, conflict resolution, and disaster management,              4)
Governance and 5) Human resources development. The objectives of PUSRP contributed to the
second pillar and the fourth.

For the 2005 Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy (UJAS), the World Bank Group joined with six



                                            10

other donors to harmonize their implementation of the PEAP, focusing on certain areas judged to
be especially important for achieving the PEAP's overarching strategic results. These areas are: 1)
strengthening the budget process and public sector management, 2) promoting private sector
development and economic growth, 3) strengthening governance, 4) improving education and
health outcomes, and 5) promoting the resolution of the conflict in the north and fostering the
social and economic development of the region. Since the UJAS is largely consistent with the
PEAP, it follows that the PUSRP supports the UJAS as well, specifically the first three areas.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

The first PDO indicator is the growth of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). While the linkage of the
PUSRP to growth is indirect and affected by a multitude of other factors, privatization and utility
reform are considered important contributing factors, a target was set for 7 percent GDP growth a
year. The average growth rate from 2001 to 2005 was maintained at a respectable average of 5.4
percent, although this represents somewhat of a decline from the 1996-2000 average rate of 6.6
percent annual growth.

Private investment as a percentage of GDP is decidedly more directly linked to privatization
which can bring in considerable foreign investment as well as domestic investment. The baseline
figure was private investment at 12 percent of GDP in 1997 and the target was 17 percent in 2004.
This target was indeed met, as in 2004 private investment was 16.9 percent of GDP (and increased
to 17.3 percent in 2005) after a steady climb during the previous five years

As discussed in further detail in Annex 4 on project indicators, during the years of the project,
2001 to 2006, subsidies for privatized commercial PEs (or those about to be privatized) increased
overall, due to long-term loan interest and principal arrears which are being addressed through
upcoming reforms (Annex 13, Table 6 and Figure 1). The project indicator targeted measurement
of commercial PEs but subsidies for parastatals that will remain in the hands of the government, in
particular infrastructure parastatals, have increased as well. This is mainly due to prices which do
not fully cover costs, the indebtedness of the infrastructure PEs and their need for government
guarantees.

Also on the macroeconomic level, the Uganda Investment Authority confirms that the
privatization program has been key to attracting foreign direct investment; the largest FDI projects
involved privatizations. FDI has seen an upward trend in last several years, increasing 84 percent
from US$133.4 million in 2001 to US$245.4 million in 2005.

Access to electricity, telecommunications and water has improved dramatically over the past five
years. Between 2001 and the first quarter of 2006, the number of electricity connections increased
from 200,217 to 291,140. This implies that the coverage rate for the power sector was 8 percent
by the beginning of 2006 far higher than the 3.8 percent rate observed in 1999 and also higher
than the target rate of 7 percent by the end of project. Access to telecommunications services
increased even more dramatically. There were about 6 fixed line and cellular subscribers for
every 1,000 people in Uganda in 1999. By the end of 2005, there were about 56 subscribers for



                                             11

every 1,000 people. This was more than twice as high as the target of 20 subscribers. Access to
water also improved, with the total number of connections increasing from 66,104 in 2000/01 to
123,046 by 2004/05.

In addition to improved access, service quality and sector efficiency also improved in the water
and telecommunications sectors. Unaccounted-for-water was reduced from 43 percent in 2000/01
to 34 percent by 2004/05. The number of staff per 1,000 connections also fell from 16 in 2000/01
to 9 in 2004/05. Although data on faults per fixed line were not available after 1999 the fact that
over 93 percent of subscribers were mobile subscribers makes this indicator less appropriate.
Other indicators suggest that service quality has improved. For example, the percent of faults
cleared within 24 hours increased from 36 percent in 1998 to 100 percent by 2004.

In contrast, service quality has improved less significantly in the power sector. Electricity losses
(i.e., the difference between power generated and power sold), which were estimated to be about
34 percent of power generated in 1999, had not improved dramatically by 2006. Although the
regulator and UMEME, the private operator, disagreed on the extent of the problem, there was
little indication of a significant improvement. According to UMEME, losses were about 35-36
percent by the end of 2005. Collection efficiency (amount collected over amount billed) has
improved more significantly. In 2001, collection efficiency was about 61 percent. This had
increased to 81 percent in 2004 and to 93 percent by the first quarter of 2006.

Despite the reform, the power sector has fallen into an acute crisis in late 2005 and early 2006.
Falling water levels in Lake Victoria, due to a regional drought, and the over-subtraction of water
have led to serious problems with load shedding. Current generation capacity has been reduced to
only about 195MW; this may fall further unless water levels improve. Current capacity is only
about half of peak demand (375-385MW). The gap has led to daily outages in most urban areas.
This, in turn, is likely to seriously affect economic growth in the near term. In May 2005, the
Bank of Uganda reduced its forecast for GDP growth in 2006 from 6 percent to 5 percent.

The recent crisis in the power sector is due to external circumstances and would have occurred
even in the absence of reform. The drop in generation capacity is primarily due to the drought
which has led to water levels dropping precipitously in Lake Victoria and over subtraction of
water. If the reform had successfully resulted in reduced losses, for example, to the levels
envisioned at the time of reform (i.e., about 25 percent) this would have had a small impact on
effective capacity. Because the shortage is so severe, even a small increase would have been
important. The modest effect of reform on losses can be attributed to the delays in attracting an
international operator into the sector (see Annex 4). The private operator, UMEME, only became
responsible for distribution in March 2005, meaning that it has had little time to reduce losses.

Although, as discussed in Annex 4, water sector reforms were less comprehensive than initially
planned, the performance contracts between the Government of Uganda and the National Water
and Sewerage Company, which were negotiated with substantial input from the Utility Reform
Unit, have led to reforms that have resulted in improved sector performance. Funding for
significant retrenchment in National Water and Sewage Company (NWSC) from the project has
also contributed to improved efficiency in the sector.




                                             12

In addition to the Project Development Objective indicators discussed above, indicators which
have become best practice for privatization evaluations are also presented. A total of Ush 44.7
billion (US$25 million) have been collected from buyers in privatization transactions and there are
no payment arrears. In fact, arrears from the transactions of the previous project were reduced
from Ush 21 billion (US$12.3 million) to Ush 1.7 billion (US$1 million) for an arrear reduction of
over 90 percent.

A Privatization Impact study conducted in 2005 with a sample of 19 firms indicated that not all
new owners and operators of privatized enterprises seem to have improved profitability, efficiency
and productivity. The most profitable privatized enterprises are among the banking and telecom
sectors. Improvements are most likely needed in aspects of the investment climate to bring about
the desired increased productivity in privatized firms (e.g. lack of long-term finance, poor
infrastructure, high taxes and lack of a qualified labor force).

The same 2005 Privatization Impact study showed that only around half of the enterprises
privatized have been paying taxes regularly. The amount of taxes paid by privatized firms
increased only 4.4 percent from 1999/00 to 2002/03. Despite this, privatized enterprises have been
paying the bulk of all taxes paid to the Uganda Revenue Authority, ranging from 74 percent to 91
percent.

The project made a substantial impact in the development of the Uganda Securities Exchange.
The privatizations in this project were the sole supplier of local equity products to the capital
market which has raised US$18 million as gross proceeds for the privatization program through
Initial Public Offers (IPOs) which have created over 10,000 new shareholders.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The economic costs and benefits of the program were calculated using the appraisal methodology
for components of the project related to severance payments and re-deployment support for
retrenched workers. This component accounted for 63 percent of total project costs (including
both IDA and government contributions). The NPV of other components was not calculated
because the details of the original methodology used to calculate the NPV was not available.
Further, data needed to calculate the NPV for these components using alternative methodologies
were not available.

The net present value of this component is estimated at about US$30 million for a 12 percent
discount rate, and its economic rate of return is estimated at 47 percent. This was higher than the
expected NPV calculated at the time of appraisal (see Annex 5). The main reason for the
difference was that salaries of retrenched workers in the private sector were higher than expected
at the time of appraisal.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory



                                             13

The overall outcome rating is Satisfactory due to significant impact of the project on the economy
through privatizations of commercial enterprises contributing to average GDP growth of 5.4
percent during the project, private investment increased to 17 percent of GDP, an 84 percent
increase in FDI, increased private participation in water and electricity, improved access, service
quality and sector efficiency in the water and telecommunications sectors. For example, the
electricity coverage rate rose to 8 percent from 3 percent and unaccounted-for-water was reduced
from 43 percent to 34 percent. These improvements have also contributed to increased investment
and economic growth. It should be noted, however, that not all firms targeted were privatized, and
2 of 4 regulatory agencies were not established. The NPV calculated for the most important
components was higher than the expected NPV for these same components at the time of
appraisal, (using the same methodology).

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

A draft retrenchee tracer study supported by PUSRP notes that about 75 percent of the 400
retrenched workers in the sample were able to reinsert themselves into the economy. 25 percent of
retrenchees are re-employed in other organizations, another 25 percent receive regular income
from farming and another 24 percent receive a regular income from self-employment. 60 percent
of the sample felt that the termination payment process was efficient and acceptable, an indication
of the effectiveness of the retrenchment policy introduced in 2001. Another 56 percent of the
sample felt that they had used their payment wisely, a possible sign of the impact of the training
and counseling conducted before retrenchment.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

Within the framework established by the PERD amendment, the project significantly strengthened
the implementing agencies' capacity to undertake their mandates by funding staff training and
additional studies to increase base knowledge feeding into policy decisions. The Privatization Unit
has built significant capacity which it is continuing to utilize while completing the remaining
transactions. The Parastatal Monitoring Unit has built a database of information on the health of
PEs to which it continues to add.       The PMU monitors whether or not PEs are complying with
detailed requirements on audited accounts, board of directors, budget and operating plans, reports
every six months and internal audits.          By law, the DRIC is still mandated to approve the
privatization approach used in each transaction and mechanisms to maintain transparency are still
in place.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

The environmental assessments and decommissioning plans uncovered problems which were
much worse than imagined at the time of appraisal. The actions required to resolve the issues were
beyond the scope and resources of the project.



                                               14

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

 N/A

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

Privatizations are by nature generally irreversible. Public-private partnerships are as well but
perhaps to a lesser extent. The reforms are robust though there are sector-specific problems that
may affect the quality of and access to services. For example, UMEME, the electricity distribution
concessionaire, is nearly at the end of its 18 month trial period and must decide in the next two
months whether to stay long term or leave. Given the difficulties in electricity generation, it is not
clear which direction the company will take. However, the capacity is there to repeat the process
that brought in UMEME. The electricity crisis, increased fuel prices from thermal generation and
limited generation overall mean limited revenues and a less attractive deal for potential
concessionaires. In addition, it is difficult for the public to discern the effects of the current crisis
in generation from the unbundling and private sector participation in the sector. This unfortunate
timing may reduce public support for private sector participation in electricity.

Moving the PU/URU/PMU into Ministry of Finance is envisioned in order to deal with post-
privatization issues and promote public-private partnerships. The GOU has officially
communicated that the agencies still have a mandate to conclude privatizations and public-private
participation transactions for the next three years. There are concerns about losing operational
independence and the differential in pay. However, the integration into MOF will likely take place
within the next three years.

Parliamentary and Presidential elections have just been held and the cabinet has been dissolved.
President Museveni, who was just re-elected has named a new Minister of Privatization.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The design of the project grew out of a similar previous project, EDP. The lessons learned during
that project were effectively taken into account. The adaptation of the previous project was truly a
cooperative effort between the Bank, Borrower and the private sector in consultations with line
ministries and labor unions.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory


                                                15

The continuity of staff in the Bank played an important role in eventually attaining the project
achievements. There were only three task team leaders, two of whom were involved from project
preparation, which helped continuity of the process. The last TTL was based in the region since
2004. There were a total of nine supervision missions for a project of five years, close to the usual
amount of two per year. The quality of project status reporting was at an acceptable level during
the first two years and improved during the last three years. The Mid Term Review was over one
year later than originally scheduled due to delays in completing critical studies to be the basis of
discussions and the availability of key officials and stakeholders.

The need for an extension was not established early enough to allow for proper arrangements. The
subject was discussed at the Mid Term Review, which was completed when there were only six
months left in the project. Although the majority of activities were addressed, some activities
were left undone. These were public-private participation in water and rail, some privatization
transactions, a reconsideration of the environmental liability issues, transition of the project unit to
MFPED, and the establishment and consolidation of water and transport regulatory agencies. The
closure of the project also made sense because privatization has become an outdated strategy and
has been replaced by Public-Private Participation in infrastructure. It was felt that an emphasis
should be given to the new strategy in a new context. In addition, IDA considered the interference
of the government in privatization an increasing trend.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The project was adequately designed and supervised to engender significant benefits.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Borrower was thoroughly engaged in the project design. A special task force created in the
GOU included private sector representatives and was active during the design phase. The
Government did interfere in some transactions by reversing the privatization strategy or holding
up approval of sector strategies. However, the government was largely supportive of the work,
providing significant funds for retrenchments and eventually providing most approvals.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory



Implementing Agency Performance
                          1.Project Coordinating Unit
Ministry of Finance,
Planning and Economic     There was excellent capacity and continuity among the staff of the PCU.
Development               Performance with respect to accounting and auditing was satisfactory. Audit
                          reports were carried out on a timely basis and in accordance with international



                                              16

                          auditing standards. Procurement and disbursement functions were carried in a
                          satisfactory manner. The systems were singled out as best practice and other
                          country teams visited the PCU to learn from them. Reporting and monitoring of
                          project indicators were generally regular.

                          2. Privatization Unit

                          The privatization unit should be commended for the transparency of their work
                          in a difficult environment.

                          3. Public Enterprise Monitoring Unit

                          Their consistency in data collection and analysis and timely reporting of results
                          were notable.

                          4. Utility Reform Unit

                          Realized and acted upon the importance of gaining consensus in parliament and
                          cabinet as well as line ministries, and the importance of informal relations in
                          moving reforms ahead.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The implementing agencies performed well and the government was generally committed despite
interference with some transactions which slowed down the process.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

The following lessons can be drawn from project experience:

     A proper legal environment is essential for forcing procedural discipline in privatization
        transactions.   The PERD Statute and the Divestiture Procedures Manual were instrumental in
        maintaining transparency and competitiveness. Strong institutions, robust laws, clear guidelines,
        parliamentary and ministerial champions are all needed to successfully avert attempts at political
        interference.
     The monitoring and evaluation system was well developed and therefore was effective in tracking
        implementation progress.
     The environmental assessments and decommissioning plans led to unexpected results which were
        beyond the scope of the project. Earlier, more detailed pre-assessments may have helped to avoid
        this situation.
     Although there was a full time coordinator for the environmental subcomponent, NEMA has
        indicated that the presence of an environmental specialist in the PU would have improved
        communication between them considerably and perhaps more could have been achieved.
     Policy consensus is essential before major reform programs are implemented to ensure success and
        minimize reversals.
     Not overselling the benefits of privatization and openly addressing the inevitable negative aspects



                                                17

        helps dissipate fears and create realistic expectations among the public. The communication
        campaign helped to avoid some of the public outcry regarding privatization programs which has
        occurred in other sub-Saharan countries.

According to exit interviews, the counseling and training for retrenchees should be done early in the
privatization process to give individuals a chance to absorb the ideas and start to prepare, both financially
and mentally. Shorter review courses could be done just before the actual layoffs to refresh the lessons and
ideas.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The borrower reviewed the ICR and was satisfied with the document.


(b) Cofinanciers

N/A


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)


The National Organization of Trade Unions, an umbrella organization, has expressed
disagreement with the projects assessment of the labor retrenchment program. Their position,
paraphrased, is that not all workers have been paid their benefits, that the 25 percent of the sample
retrenches in our study that do not have a regular income should have also been taken into
account, and essentially that the privatization program has done nothing but harm to the situation
of workers in Uganda.

In response, the reference to unpaid staff actually applied to privatizations under EDP not PUSRP
and this problem was addressed in the designed of PUSRP. Under PUSPR, there are less than 10
cases where workers were not satisfied with the amount of the packages they were given. These
cases have gone to court and the payments are indeed suspended pending final decision by the
judge. Also, in comparison with privatization projects in other African countries, a rate of 75
percent of retrenched employees having found income is quite an achievement. It is true that in
the short term, net unemployment increases with privatization. The long term effects on the
economy, (efficiency of services, productivity of firms, and efficient allocation of resources)
outweigh the short term consequences for individuals, as difficult as they may be.




                                               18

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project's development objective is to improve the quality, coverage and economic
efficiency of commercial and utility services, through privatization, private participation
in infrastructure (PPI) and an improved regulatory framework. This objective will be
achieved by a higher level of private investment, and better quality and access of services
in telecommunication, water, electricity and transport sectors divestiture and improved
efficiency of remaining public enterprises (PEs); and strengthening of the regulatory
framework and institutions in relevant sectors.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                  Original Target Values      Formally  Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator         Baseline                                   Revised
                     Value             (from approval                      at Completion or
                                          documents)           Target
                                                               Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :    1. Average Annual GDP Growth

Value
                 6.6 % (1996-
(quantitative or                 7 % (2001-2005)                       5.4 % for 2001-2005
                 2000)
Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :    2. Private Investment to GDP ratio

Value
(quantitative or 12 % (1997)     17 % (2004)                           16.9 % (2004)
Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :    3. Reduction of subsidies to PE Sector

                                 Zero subsidies to PE sector.          -20.3% in 2001/02 +110.9%
                 US$ 147. 3
Value                            Reductions by: -10% in year           in 2002/2003 +351% in
                 million as
(quantitative or                 2001 -20% in year 2002 -50%           2003/2004 +166.8% in
                 subsidies to PE
Qualitative)                     in year 2003 -100% by June            2004/2005 -29% in
                 sector
                                 20 05                                 2005/2006



                                                    19

Date achieved

Comments         Commercial and Divested PEs are only measured here. The percentages are in relation to
(incl. %         the base year of 2000. The subsidies increased but did not exceed pre-project rates which
achievement)     averaged Ush.130.5 m. (1996- 2000).

Indicator 4 :    4. Coverage Rate (% of population with grid-based connections) in Electricity

Value
(quantitative or 3.9 % (1999)    7 % (2005)                                        8 % (1st Quarter 2006)
Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 5 :    5. Losses in power sector (units billed as % of units produced)

Value
(quantitative or 34 % (1999)     25 % (June 2005)                                  35-36 % (2005)
Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments         Some disagreement on extent of losses exists with the private operator claiming higher
(incl. %         baseline numbers at contract signing than the regulator. However, all estimates suggest
achievement)     little improvement.

Indicator 6 :    6. Telecommunication Lines (fixed and mobile) per 1000 people.

Value
(quantitative or 6 (1999)        20 (June 2005)                                    56 (2004)
Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 7 :    7. Telecommunications faults per fixed line

Value
(quantitative or 0.84 (1999)     0.4                                               see comments
Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments         Indicator not collected by regulator or operators. Note that this measure is based upon
(incl. %         fixed lines. Therefore, it is less useful now than in the past since over 93 % of lines in
achievement)     Uganda are mobile.

Indicator 8 :    8. Railways - Traffic Volume (tonnes hauled/$m GDP)

Value
                                                                                   134.4 (2003) 10.4 (2004)
(quantitative or 134 (1999)      150 (June 2005)
                                                                                   see comments
Qualitative)



                                                        20

Date achieved

Comments
(incl. %        More recent data not available.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                 Baseli Original Target Values           Formally

   Indicator        ne          (from approval            Revised        Actual Value Achieved at

                 Value             documents)              Target       Completion or Target Years
                                                           Values

Indicator 1 :    1. Privatization of PEs with signed sales contracts and payment collected.

Value                                                                19 by mid-term review. 24 privatized,
                          42 PEs to be privatized. 15 by
(quantitative or                                                     6 liquidated, 5 in progress (January
                          mid-term review. (June 2005)
Qualitative)                                                         2006)

Date achieved

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                 2. End of Services benefits for retrenched workers paid in accordance with GOU policy
Indicator 2 :    for retrenchment and in a timely fashion from the Redundancy Accounts and Project
                 funds.

Value
                                                                     20,845 employees were paid $70
(quantitative or na       na
                                                                     million.
Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments
(incl. %         All benefits were paid to retrenched workers in a timely fashion.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :    3. Environmental Audits carried out for all PEs before completion of each transaction.

                          10 PEs - full audits 1 PE -
                                                                     10 PEs - full audits 1 PE - partial audit
                          partial audit 5 PEs -
Value                                                                4 of 5 PEs - decommissioning plans 4
                          decommissioning plans 4 PEs
(quantitative or -                                                   PEs - preparation of monitoring proto
                          - preparation of monitoring
Qualitative)                                                         cols-to be replaced by an
                          protocols with monitorable
                                                                     Environmental Management Review
                          indicators

Date achieved

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 :    4.Communications Programs



                                                    21

Value
                         Four Communications
(quantitative or                                                     2005 - yes
                         Programs
Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments
(incl. %        Annually
achievement)

Indicator 5 :   5. Adoption of Government's Sector Policy

                         Telecommunications - mid-
                                                                     Telecommunications - End-2001;
Value                    term review; Power - mid-
                                                                     Power - End-2001; Water and
(quantitative or         term review; Water and
                                                                     Sewerage - October 2003; Rail
Qualitative)             Sewerage - June 30, 2005;
                                                                     Transport - August 2005
                         Rail transport - June 30, 2005

Date achieved                                                        08/30/2005

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                6. Regulator has in-house technical capacity to manage the frequency spectrum by end-
Indicator 6 :
                2002

Value
(quantitative or         Completed End-2002                          Completed Mid-Term Review
Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 7 :   7. Development of new electricity sector structure

Value
(quantitative or         Completed End-2001                          Completed March 2001
Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 8 :   8. Private Sector Participation in Electricity Distribution

Value
(quantitative or         Completed End 2001                          Completed April 2005
Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments



                                                   22

(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 9 :   9. Private Sector Participation in Electricity Generation

Value
(quantitative or         Completed End 2002                         Completed April 2003
Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 10 :  10. Electricity Regulator in place and operational

Value
(quantitative or         In Place End-2001                          In place April 2000
Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                11. Framework for Privatization of railway transportation services completed and
Indicator 11 :
                adopted by GOU

Value
                         Completed and Adopted End-
(quantitative or                                                    Completed and Adopted August 2004
                         2001
Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 12 :  12. PSP in rail transport

Value
(quantitative or         Completed End 2003                         Completed April 2006
Qualitative)

Date achieved            12/31/2003

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 13 :  13. Sectoral regulatory agency in transportation established and operational

Value
(quantitative or         Completed                                  Not Completed May 2006
Qualitative)

Date achieved            06/30/2005



                                                   23

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                Framework for privatization of water and sewerage services completed and adopted by
Indicator 14 :
                GOU

Value
                         Completed and Adopted June              Completed and Adopted October
(quantitative or
                         2001                                    2003
Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 15 :  15. PSP and operation of some existing assets in water and sewerage sector

                                                                 Not Completed for main urban water
Value                                                            utility, NWSC. Completed for 50 of
(quantitative or         Completed                               73 small towns. Management contract
Qualitative)                                                     for Kampala between 2002 and 2004
                                                                 (not extended). April 2006.

Date achieved            12/31/2003

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 16 :  16. Sectoral regulatory agency in water and sewerage established and operational

Value
(quantitative or         Completed                               Not Completed May 2006
Qualitative)

Date achieved            06/30/2005

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                17. PMU installed and operates management information system to monitor the financial
Indicator 17 :
                performance of non-commercial PEs

Value
(quantitative or         Complete                                Complete
Qualitative)

Date achieved            01/31/2006                              01/31/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 18 :  18. Settlement of cross-arrears between PEs and GOU



                                                   24

Value
(quantitative or          Complete                                 Not Complete
Qualitative)

Date achieved             01/31/2006                               01/31/2006

Comments        The level of debt verification by GOU internal auditors was low. Information and
(incl. %        awareness have increased and pre-pay mechanisms were established to prevent adding to
achievement)    the debt.

Indicator 19 :  19. Transparency of privatization transaction is maintained throughout

Value
(quantitative or                                                   Complete
Qualitative)

Date achieved                                                      01/31/2006

Comments
                Transparency was only questioned in two privatizations which in the end were not
(incl. %
                carried out.
achievement)

Indicator 20 :  20. Timely reporting on work program and auditing of accounts

Value
(quantitative or                                                   Complete
Qualitative)

Date achieved                                                      01/31/2006

Comments
                Bi-annual project progress reports were produced. Audits were generally submitted on
(incl. %
                time and were unqualified.
achievement)

Indicator 21 :  21. Procurement process is efficient, timely and competitive throughout project

Value
(quantitative or                                                   Complete
Qualitative)

Date achieved                                                      01/31/2006

Comments
(incl. %        Initial slow procurement was resolved.
achievement)




                                                  25

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)


Restructuring   Board       ISR Ratings at Amount Disbursed at      Reason for

    Date(s)   Approved      Restructuring Restructuring in US$   Restructuring &
             PDO Change      DO       IP       Millions        Key Changes Made

12/14/2004   N                S        S                 20.53 see section 6.7




                                       26

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Millions equivalent)


      Components          Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest Estimate   Percentage of
                           (US$ Millions)            (US$ Millions)        Appraisal

Capacity Building for
                                         25.5                        16.4           64.3
Privatization

Strengthening of PE
                                          1.9                        1.6            84.2
Financial

Utility Sector Reform                     9.0                         5.4           60.0

Project Management                        8.9                         8.4           94.4

     Total Baseline Cost                 45.3                        31.8

Physical Contingencies                    0.0                         0.0            0.0

Price Contingencies                       2.3                         0.0            0.0

      Total Project Costs                47.6                        31.8

Project Preparation
                                          0.9                        0.0             0.0
Facility (PPF)

Front-end fee IBRD                        0.0                         0.0            0.0

          Total Financing
                                         48.5                        31.8
               Required
(b) Financing


 Source of         Type of   Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
   Funds        Cofinancing    (US$ Millions)          (US$ Millions)      Appraisal
  IDA                                       45.3                     31.8          70.2


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                           27

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Part A. Capacity Building for Privatization (US$ 16.4, 51.6 percent - Actual)

The rating for this component is Satisfactory because the majority of the work was
completed with extraordinary attention to maintaining transparency. Communications
were especially effective with Parliament though there was no resolution of the lack of
progress in the environmental monitoring sub-component of the project.

1. Technical Assistance. This sub-component included the strengthening the technical,
legal, accounting and investment banking capacity of the Government of Uganda's
(GOU's) departments and agencies responsible for privatization through the provision of
technical advisory services for (i) the bidding and listing of the remaining public
enterprises (PEs) on the GOU s stock exchange; and (ii) the development and carrying
out of any employee share ownership schemes required by the applicable divestiture
programs.

Institutional arrangements were based on the previous project but were adjusted by
amendment to the PERD statute. The amendment defined the Minister of State for
Privatization in the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MFPED)
as the leader and the responsible party for implementation of the privatization process.
This Minister was responsible for overall project implementation and coordination and
was vested with the powers to determine, formulate and execute detailed plans for the
reform of any PE in consultation with the line Minister. The Minister of Privatization
was advised by the Divestiture and Reform Implementation Committee, DRIC, a policy
advisory board established by the PERD Statue comprising representatives of key
stakeholders including the private sector. DRIC is vested with the power to approve the
commercial terms of any divestiture. This approval is sought in each case by the
Minister of Privatization. Informal mechanisms were established to ensure coordination
among all parties. Technical Committees and Working Groups were established for each
utility. The Minister was supported by the PCU which carried out the technical work and
coordinated the implementation of the privatizations and sector reforms. The PCU was
comprised of the Privatization Unit and the Utility Reform Unit. Parastatal financial
oversight was implemented by the Parastatal Monitoring Unit under the MFPED.

Twenty-four PEs have been privatized and 6 PEs liquidated under the project following
the Divestiture Procedures Manual and Guidelines put in place in May 1999 (Annex 1).
These 30 firms account for 71.4 percent of the 42 firms originally envisioned for
privatization. The difference between achievement and target can largely be attributed to
the slow start in the project and the transaction strategy reversals of the government.
Payments for purchased PEs have been made in lump sum amounts upon signature of
sale contract/agreement, so no arrears were accumulated. The owners of privatized
companies differ in their assessment of post-privatization performance, but generally
praise the Privatization Unit's adherence to procedure, transparency and competence and
the quality of the legal and investment banking advisors brought in to assist in
transactions. The PERD privatization procedure laws, procedure manual, and the


                                            28

Divestiture and Reform Implementation Committee (DRIC) were instrumental in
maintaining the transparency. There were few instances of blatant attempts by the GOU
to defy the established divestiture procedures. There was public outcry and these
attempts were successfully fought by the PU, (e.g. Kinyara Sugar and Dairy
Corporation).    It seems that the lessons learned in the earlier privatization project,
Enterprise Development Project were integrated into the program and legal institutions in
an effective way.

2. Retrenchment Program. This sub-component included the carrying out of a program
designed to mitigate the social impact of labor retrenchment including (i) the funding of a
portion of severance and other retrenchment costs of staff of the PEs; and (ii) the
provision of technical advisory services to assist in the carrying out of the program,
including counseling and retraining.

Based on previous experiences in the privatization program and on work carried out
during project preparation, the key concerns of workers during privatization are
information about retrenchment as possible in the process and payment of severance
packages in a timely manner. The GOU designed and adopted a policy for retrenchment
of workers in 2001 which includes criteria for retrenchment in a given enterprise,
selection criteria for retrenchment of specific workers, composition of several package
and safety net measures including early notification and counseling and retraining on
demand. Funds for retrenchment are sourced first from company resources. If that does
not suffice, privatization proceeds are used and the last resort is IDA funding. IDA
partially funded the retrenchment in the four largest PEs, Uganda Post and
Telecommunication Company (UPTC), Uganda Electricity Board (UEB), Uganda Rail
Company (URC) and the National Water and Sewerage Company (NWSC). The
retrenchment policy ensured that payments were made as soon as the retrenches were
named and the amounts calculated. The Terminal Benefits paid during PUSRP total Ush
70 billion broken down into Ush 55 billion from the GOU and Ush 15 billion from IDA,
(or US$9,071,523), paid to 20,845 employees (Annex 13, Table 4).

The total number of employees benefiting from training/counseling under PUSRP is
2,152 (Annex 13, Table 5). The PUSRP Retrenchee Tracer study showed that
retrenchment is perceived to have a less negative impact after the social safety net
measures were introduced at the beginning of the project. The study also showed that
early pre-retrenchment counseling is beneficial in preparing workers and has contributed
substantially to limiting the negative impact on their lives. According to exit interviews,
the counseling and training for retrenchees should be done early in the privatization
process to give them a chance to absorb the ideas and start to prepare, both financially
and mentally.

3. Communication Program for Privatization. This sub-component included the carrying
out of a communication program designed to: (a) strengthen public confidence in the
transparency of the GOU s divestiture procedures; and (b) convince the public of the
GOU s commitment to: (i) the carrying out of its divestiture strategy, and (ii) the
selection of a sound and appropriate method for the privatization. Specific actions



                                            29

included (A) initiatives by the GOU to explain the benefits of its privatization and
divestiture program to specific targeted audiences; (B) provision by the GOU of relevant
information to management and employees of PEs scheduled for privatization; (C) the
development of a specially tailored employee relations program to explain, among other
things, the benefits and protection which the said program can offer to the employees;
and (D) the establishment of means through which stakeholders can express their
opinions and concerns on privatization and divestiture issues and also provide feedback
to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) on stakeholders perceptions on privatization and
divestiture issues.

The PU prepared a communication plan and employed a full-time communications
officer, reporting to the head of the PU. Privatization Open Day for public discussion of
concerns were held in October 2004 and 2005, as were pre-divestiture employee
counseling programs, quarterly press briefings and media training for reporters. The
public relations program seems to have made a positive impact on public opinion of
privatization. This is not to say that there are now many vocal advocates of privatization.
Rather, there seems to be a more of a sober understanding of the costs and benefits and a
reduction in hostile opposition. In addition, a new Parliament was put in place just after
the project became effective and IDA agreed with PCU to undertake specific measures to
sensitize and build consensus among Parliamentarians on privatization. The education
and engagement of parliamentarians, though difficult at times, proved effective in
gaining essential champions of the project within Parliament. The bi-annual reports
prepared specifically for Parliament, study tours, workshops, committee meetings and
informal relationships brought about regular information exchange and addressing of
concerns.     This atmosphere facilitated the general progress of the majority of the
transactions without major conflicts.

4. Environmental Liabilities. This sub-component included (a) the preparation of
comprehensive environmental audits and remediation plans for the PEs scheduled for
privatization, including the determination of responsibility for pre-existing environmental
liabilities and their clean-up, through the provision of technical advisory services, (b) The
preparation and carrying out of de-commissioning plans for the PEs and assets scheduled
for closure, through the provision of technical advisory services, and (c) The preparation
and monitoring of environmental management plans to bring privatized enterprises into
compliance with environmental requirements mandated by Ugandan laws and
regulations, through the provision of technical advisory services.

During preparation, an environmental pre-audit was conducted and identified the need
for full audits and remediation plans in 10 PEs prior to their privatization plus one partial
audit and detailed de-commissioning plans for five PEs. PUSRP was to fund the costs of
preparing the audits and preparation and implementation of the de-commissioning plans.
Costs of monitoring compliance after privatization were also to be partially funded by
IDA.

PUSPR completed all 10 of the full environmental audits recommended by the
environmental pre-audit. The one partial audit was also completed as were 4 of the 5



                                              30

decommissioning plans, (one decommissioning plan remained incomplete only because
the company was liquidated). All of these audits and plans were subsequently approved
by the National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA). Most assessments were
completed before privatization as planned, but three were done post-privatization
because they were privatized early in the project and the audits were not completed until
2003 or later.

It was realized by the Mid-Term Review that the identified scope of work on
decommissioning was beyond the capacity in PUSRP and that lack of capacity at NEMA
was to preclude their assumption of a role in monitoring compliance with
recommendations.       NEMA has advised that the responsibility for monitoring and
managing mitigation rests with PUSRP. It was agreed with IDA that Lake Katwe Salt
Company could be divested despite the remaining environmental issues with the
condition that the buyer would implement the necessary mitigation measures identified in
the environmental audit. IDA is considering transferring Kilembe Mines to the Mining
Project for resolution of decommissioning issues.

Part B: Strengthening Financial Oversight of Public Enterprises (US$1.6 million,
5.0 percent)

The rating for this component is Satisfactory because the monitoring work was expertly
conducted. However, the aim of reducing subsidies and settling utility arrears was not
achieved by project end due to slow government action.

This component included the carrying out of financial oversight of PEs with a view to (i)
improving financial discipline in the public enterprise sector and facilitating the
settlement of cross arrears (A) between the GOU and PEs and (B) among public
enterprises; and (ii) reducing budgetary subsidies to the PEs, through the provision of
technical advisory services and training. This includes the acquisition of equipment
required for the financial oversight of PEs.

Financial oversight of compliance with statutory requirements by public enterprises
continues to be monitored by the Parastatal Monitoring Unit (PMU) to improve
performance and corporate governance.          Using basic indicators for measuring
compliance, such as the existence of a board of directors, budgets and operating plans
and audited accounts, the PMU analysis shows that average compliance among PEs
improved from 12 percent to 54 percent during the project period. From 1999/00 to
2004/03 the result of this compliance is evidenced by an increase in net worth of Ush.
278 billion and in profitability of Ush. 7.5 billion. The financial oversight has also
included the restructuring of the following companies: Uganda Seeds Ltd, Mandela
National Stadium, National Medical Stores, Kilembe Mines Ltd and Uganda Post Ltd.

Under its mandate as secretariat to the Debt Settlement Committee (DSC), the PMU
coordinates the debt settlement of PEs. The GOU ministries and departments agree to
their respective positions on each debt, which are then verified by the GOU internal
auditors. The level of verification has remained low during the project period, below 40


                                            31

percent, resulting in an inability to utilize the results of the DSC activities. Therefore,
more information on debts has been produced and awareness of the problem has been
increased but this has not translated into improved GOU payments. The unverified
utility arrears for the 3 major utilities (electricity distribution, telecommunications and
water) were Ush 27.9 billion at project-end. Pre-pay mechanisms are now in place and
are working well to ensure that no new arrears are accumulated in telecommunications
and water. Debt-equity swaps have been proposed to deal with arrears in electricity and
telecommunications.

In 2000, total subsidies to commercial public enterprises (and divested commercial
enterprises) dropped sharply by 87% to Ush 0.23 billion as a result of the restructuring of
long-term debt to the Telecom and Sugar sectors as part of their divestiture process,
(Annex 13, Table 6 and Figure 1). Thereafter, subsidies have increased contrary to GOU
targets. The PMU identification of this trend and subsequent analysis showed that the
increase is mainly due to the continued accumulation of un-serviced long-term loan
interest and principal arrears. This scrutiny of the subsidies led to the commissioning of
the recently completed debt restructuring study financed by the project. This study's
recommendations, awaiting approval in Parliament, aim to ameliorate the debt position
of PEs which is undermining the government's policy of phasing out indirect subsidies.
The project indicator singled out commercial public enterprises, but it should be noted
that infrastructure PE subsidies have increased as well.

Part C: Utility Sector Reform (US$5.4 million, 17.0 percent)

The project s development objective in the infrastructure sector is to improve the quality,
coverage and economic efficiency of utility services, through privatization, private
participation in infrastructure (PPI) and an improved regulatory framework. To achieve
this, the planned steps included: (i) establishing and making operational independent
regulators in the power, water and transportation sectors; (ii) adopting sector policies in
the telecommunications, electricity, water and sewerage and rail transport sectors; (iii)
developing frequency management system in the telecommunications sector; (iv)
developing a new electricity sector structure and introducing private sector participation
in electricity distribution and generation; (v) completing and adopting a framework for
privatization and introducing private sector participation in existing assets in the water
and sewerage sectors; and (vi) completing and adopting a framework for privatization of
railway transport services and introducing private sector participation in Uganda
Railways Corporation (URC).

In the railway sector, the project supported a reform that was considerably more
ambitious than had been originally planned. In July 2003, the Governments of Kenya
and Uganda agreed on the structure of a joint concession, including agreeing on a single
transaction, similar regulatory frameworks and contracts, and a single operator for both
countries.   The joint concession was the preferred sale method given that the railway
system in Kenya yields ocean shipping access, improving the attractiveness of the
package. Because the Government of Kenya had made less progress in preparing for the
concession transaction, this led to some delays. By December 2003, the Joint Steering



                                             32

Committee had harmonized the two strategies and drafted a Memorandum of
Understanding and a joint strategy. The MOU was signed by both Ministers of Transport
in August 2004. The pre-qualification process started in September 2004 and bids were
received in September 2005. After delays due to court procedures in Uganda, the
contract was signed in April 2006. The handover is expected to take place in August
2006. A draft bill that would include provisions to set up an independent regulator was
under consideration at the cabinet level in mid-2006.

Much of the reform in the telecommunications sector had been completed before the
PUSRP became operational.          In particular, the regulator, Uganda Communications
Commission (UCC), the second network operator and the third cellular operator had all
started operating before the project and the incumbent operator had been partially (51
percent) privatized by May 2000.          The PUSRP provided for support for capacity
building (e.g., training) for UCC to ensure that the reforms would be sustained.
Although funds were also available to help UCC procure equipment for spectrum
monitoring, UCC financed this purchase using alternate funds.             There was also
significant support for retrenchment from the GOU and IDA.

In the power sector, the PUSRP supported a bold and far-reaching reform that was
consistent with the output indicators envisioned at the beginning of the project.     The
strategy for reform and privatization of the electricity sector was approved by the
Government of Uganda before the project became operational.               The independent
regulator, the Electricity Regulatory Authority (ERA), was put in place in April 2000,
when its commissioners were appointed. The assets of the vertically-integrated publicly-
owned monopoly, the Uganda Electricity Board (UEB), were transferred to separate
limited liability companies for generation, transmission, and distribution in March 2001.

After some delays due to the initial timing of the issuing of tender documents in
September 2001, a 20-year concession contract for existing generation assets were signed
between ESKOM Uganda Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ESKOM Enterprises SA,
the state-owned holding company for generation assets (UEGCL), and the Government
of Uganda in November 2002. The handover was completed in April 2003.                  The
contract required ESKOM Uganda to pay the Government a concession fee and to invest
at least $6.7 million in the first five years of the concession. ESKOM was on schedule
with the required levels of investment at the end of the project.

In distribution a 20-year concession contract was signed between a consortium of CDC
Globaleq and ESKOM and the Government of Uganda in May 2004 the first concession
for an unbundled distribution network in sub-Saharan Africa. The private operator,
UMEME, took over operation of the system in April 2005. The process, which started in
2001, had been slowed down by developments in the international market. About 5 or 6
companies had been interested in participating in the process in the beginning. However,
interest declined significantly before the bidding process started for a number of external
reasons such as the collapse of ENRON and a re-assessment of the potential for profits in
small markets such as Uganda. The two remaining companies, ESKOM and CDC
Globaleq, joined together to form a consortium. ESKOM was the smaller partner, with



                                              33

44 percent of shares and 2 of the 5 board appointments.

Shortly after UMEME began operations, the sector slipped into a serious crisis. After a
prolonged drought, water levels in Lake Victoria fell by about a meter, considerably
reducing generation capacity at the hydroelectric facilities at Jinja. The Government of
Uganda commissioned a 50 MW thermal plant, significantly increasing the average cost
of power. Since tariffs were not increased, this led to a large deficit in the sector
requiring subsidies estimated at about Ush.10.9 billion per month. Despite a 37 percent
tariff increase in mid-2006, which is intended to correct for inflation and rising fuel costs,
the regulator expects that similar subsidies will be required in the near term. If additional
thermal plants are commissioned to provide emergency power as planned, the
Government will either have to increase tariffs or subsidies.

Despite the commissioning of the thermal plant, total capacity (about 195MW in mid-
2006) was less than peak demand (between 375-385MW). This, in turn, has led to
massive load-shedding and power outages. In addition to having a negative impact on
the economy, since UMEME is selling considerably less power than if the dams were
producing at full capacity, this has also had a negative impact on UMEME s expected
revenues. In May 2006, UMEME was considering using an exit clause that allowed it to
exit after 18 months, a decision due by July 2006.

Although the crisis has negatively impacted sector performance and has affected public
perceptions about the success of the reform, it is important to note that they were
exogenous to the reform. That is, the main problem was that water levels in Lake
Victoria had fallen due to a drought and over-subtraction of water, reducing generating
capacity. Effective capacity would be higher if losses had been successfully reduced.
But the timing of reform meant that this was difficult since the new operator had not had
sufficient time to complete system improvements when the crisis occurred.

As in other countries, reform of the water and sewerage sector was more difficult than
reform in other infrastructure sectors. Due to concerns about access and affordability and
the difficulty of introducing competition into the sector in small markets reform has been
more politically sensitive than in other infrastructure sectors. Although the reforms that
were enacted were considerably less ambitious than originally anticipated, they were
consistent with the aims of the reform and appear to have resulted in improved sector
performance.

The Cabinet approved a sector reform strategy for the water sector in October 2003 and a
Sector Reform Implementation Committee was established in November 2003. The plan
included steps to introduce private sector participation into the sector through a lease
contract with a private operator. Although steps were taken to procure a transaction
adviser who would help develop a regulatory framework and help with the procurement
of a private operator, selection of the transaction adviser was delayed due to technical
procurement issues. The Inspector General of the Government (IGG) initiated an
investigation into the procurement of the transaction advisor, instructing the Utility
Reform Unit (URU) to suspend the process. After a two-year investigation and numerous



                                             34

discussions between the IGG and the URU, the IGG issued a letter to PUSRP stating that
there was no need to issue a final report since both parties were at fault. By the time the
investigation was complete, the market had changed considerably with international
investors less interested in the water sectors of small, low-income countries.
Furthermore, progress had been made in the water sector with other reforms and sector
performance had continued to improve, reducing the Government's desire to sign a lease
contract with a private operator. Consequently, it was decided that PUSRP should seek
an alternate reform strategy for the sector. As a result, a lease contract was not signed and
an independent sector regulator did not become operational during the project.

Significant reforms did take place, however, and sector performance improved both in
terms of access to service and the quality of service (see Section 8.2).       In September
2003, the URU drafted and negotiated a new performance contract between the state-
owned water utility, National Water and Sewerage Company (NWSC), and the
Government of Uganda. This contract replaced an earlier performance contract between
NWSC and the Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment and Ministry of Finance,
Planning and Economic Development that had been in place between 1999 and 2002. In
2004, the NWSC also implemented Internally Delegated Area Management Contracts
(IDAMs). IDAMs are performance contracts signed between existing local managers in
NWSC and the NWSC.            When the three-year contracts expire in 2006, NWSC is
planning to join urban centers into a number of clusters and allow managers in each
cluster to bid against each other with proposed business plans. The winning management
team will then become responsible for the entire cluster. When the next round of IDAMs
is bid in 2008, the Directorate of Water Policy suggested that local private operators
might also be able to submit business plans.

Although the main urban water utility, NWSC, remained fully state-owned, some private
sector participation was introduced into the sector during the PUSRP. In small towns, 50
of the 73 water authorities have signed management contracts with private firms.
Between 2002 and 2004, an international water firm (Ondeo) had a management contract
with NWSC to operate the water system in Kampala. After the contract expired in 2004,
it was not renewed because the partners could not agree on a management fee for an
extension.

Part D: Project Management (US$8.4 million, 26.4 percent)

The rating for this component is Satisfactory because the relevant training was
supported by the Bank and the Borrower took advantage of it and benefited, as evidenced
by good quality project performance and monitoring.

This component included the training of project staff in (i) privatization policies,
procedures and regulation; and (ii) project planning, accounting, auditing, procurement
and other project management skills, through the provision of technical advisory services

Project staff was able to take full advantage of training on privatization policies and
regulation as well as project planning, accounting, auditing and procurement.            The


                                             35

general consensus was that this training was of high quality and relevance and it was
readily made available to staff members. All professional staff was covered and various
officials from relevant Ministries were able to benefit as well.




                                            36

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

The economic costs and benefits of the program were calculated using the original
appraisal methodology for components of the project related to severance payments and
re-deployment support for retrenched workers. This component accounted for 63 percent
of total project costs (including both IDA and government contributions). The NPV of
other components was not calculated because the details of the original methodology
used to calculate the NPV was not available. Further, data needed to calculate the NPV
for these components using alternative methodologies were not available.

For the retrenchment component, benefits include the additional contribution to the
economy that the workers will be able to make by working where there is an effective
demand for their services, or by developing their own economic activities. Severance
payments were calculated on the basis of the collective bargaining agreements applicable
to each economic sector.

Costs

Therefore, the costs of the retrenchment program were calculated as the sum of the
following items:

     1. Severance payments plus other benefits
     2. Outplacement costs to assist job seekers/counseling
     3. Training costs
     4. Costs of administering the program.

Item 1 was considered an economic cost due to the budgetary constraints in Uganda and
its inclusion recognizes the importance of the costs of public funds. Items 2, 3 and 4 were
included because they have an economic component in that the resources could have
been used in alternative ways.

Benefits

The benefits of redundancy reduction are given by the:

     1. Marginal productivity of laid-off employees elsewhere in the economy
     2. Marginal revenues of laid-off employees creating their new enterprise
     3. Marginal productivity value of the forgone labor cost of privatized enterprises
        (i.e. cost savings to government from laying off workers)

Results

In the Project Appraisal Document, it was estimated the Net Present Value of this
component would US$8.6 million and that the ERR would be 14.9 percent. Using
updated figures for an ex-post evaluation, calculations based on the original methodology



                                               37

used at Appraisal resulted in an NPV of US$114 million and an ERR of 76 percent. The
main reason that NPV was higher in the ex-post evaluation was that actual income of
retrenched workers, estimated along with re-employment probabilities from the
Retrenched Employees Tracer Study, was higher than expected at the time of appraisal.
Another difference was that the productivity gains from privatization, which were
estimated using the results from the Privatization Impact Assessment completed under
the project, were slightly lower than expected. If the productivity gains had been as high
as expected at appraisal, the actual NPV would have been even higher.

Subsequently, two adjustments were made to the original methodology in order to
improve the estimation. First, the severance payments were treated as a transfer, not
solely as a cost, since benefits did, in fact, accrue to the workers. Second, as before, the
public wages saved through retrenchment was counted as a savings to the state.
However, these losses also represent a loss to workers and were counted as such in the
adjusted calculations.

The net present value of the project is estimated at about US$30 million for a 12
percent discount rate, and its economic rate of return is estimated at 47 percent. It
should be noted that additional important benefits exist which could not be quantified,
such as improved management in public and privatized enterprises, changes in quality
and quantity of services and a more conducive business environment.




                                              38

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                  Title             Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Aberra Zerabruk        Consultant           LEGAF
Agata E. Pawlowska    Senior Economist      AFTPS
Agnes Kaye            Program Assistant     AFMUG
Alan F. Townsend      Sr. Energy Spec.      SASEI       Mining
Alfonso Cristobal
                      Alt. Executive Dir.   EDS08       Peer Reviewer
Revollo
Amadou Dem            Young Professional    YPP
Claude P. Sorel       Consultant            AFTU2
Edgar Saravia         Country Manager       ECCU7       TTL
                      Senior Country
Faris H. Hadad-Zervos                       MNC04
                      Operations Officer
Francis Ato Brown     Sr. Sanitary Engineer AFTU1
George R. Clarke      Senior Economist      AFTPS
Herminia Martinez      Consultant           AFTPS       Peer Reviewer
Iain Thornton Christie Consultant           AFTPS
Irene F. Chacon       Operations Analyst    AFTPS
Itzhak Goldberg       Lead Specialist       ECSPF
Jean-Michel Happi     Country Manager       AFMCD
                      Senior Infrastructure
Jeffrey John Delmon                         IEF
                      Specialist
                      Sr. Communications
Jose-Manuel Bassat                          EXTCD
                      Officer
                      Sr. Financial
Joseph Kizito Mubiru                        AFTFM
                      Management Specialist
Linda Cotton          Consultant            AFTPS
                      Sr. Private Sector
Lucy M. Fye                                 AFTPS       TTL
                      Development
                      Senior ICT Policy
Mavis A. Ampah                              CITPO
                      Specialist
                      Sr. Private Sector
Michael D. Wong                             AFTPS
                      Development
Modupe A. Adebowale Senior Finance Officer  LOAG2



                                           39

Nelson Frederick O.
                       Consultant             AFMUG
Ofwono
Onno Ruhl              Manager                AFTRL
Patrick Piker Umah     Sr. Financial
                                              AFTFM
Tete                   Management Specialist
Peter R. Kyle          Lead Counsel           LEGPS
                       Sr. Communications
Richard M. Uku                                INFVP
                       Officer
Richard Olowo          Procurement Spec.      AFTPC
Rogati Anael Kayani    Consultant             AFTNL
Rona P. Cook           Program Assistant      AFTPS
                       Lead Private Sector
Ronald J. Kopicki                             AFTPS
                       Development
                       Lead Investment
Roy Pepper                                    CICFI               Peer Reviewer
                       Policy Officer
Russell A. Muir        Lead Economist         CICAP
                       Sr. Environmental
Serigne Omar Fye                              AFTS1
                       Specialist
Sunita Kikeri          Adviser                PSDPO
Yeshareg Dagne         Program Assistant      AFTPS

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived           IP                  DO            Actual Disbursements
                                                                      (US$ Millions)
1   02/12/2001              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                     0.00
2   05/22/2001              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                     0.76
3   06/28/2001              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                     0.97
4   12/18/2001              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                     1.44
5   05/16/2002              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                     2.77
6   12/20/2002              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                     10.43
7   05/30/2003              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                     12.61
8   10/24/2003              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                     15.45
9   05/27/2004              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                     18.18
10 11/19/2004               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                     20.32
11 06/24/2005               Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory          22.77
12 12/28/2005               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                     24.50
13 06/26/2006               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                     31.16




                                            40

(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands
                                           No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                 consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY00                                              159.02
                    FY01                                               32.07
                    FY02                                               0.00
                    FY03                                               0.00
                    FY04                                               0.00
                    FY05                                               0.00
                    FY06                                               0.00
                    FY07                                               0.00
                                    Total:                            191.09
Supervision/ICR
                    FY00                                               0.59
                    FY01                                               64.71
                    FY02                                               95.84
                    FY03                                              160.96
                    FY04                                              169.91
                    FY05                                              195.02
                    FY06                                              162.83
                    FY07                                               1.81
                                    Total:                            851.67




                                        41

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings        Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
                        Satisfactory      Government:       Moderately Satisfactory
Entry:
                                          Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                        Highly Satisfactory
                                          Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                        Satisfactory
Performance:                              Performance:




                                         42

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

N/A




                                       43

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

N/A




                                  44

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower has submitted a draft ICR which is on file for reference. A summary,
produced by the ICR team, follows.

Achievements and Major Issues Affecting Performance

Capacity Building for Privatization Component

Of the 42 divestitures planned for the project period, 28 have been completed in strict
adherence to the Divestiture Procedures Manual and Guidelines. However, there were
reversals in divestiture strategy and sector strategies on the part of GOU which resulted
in delays and increased costs. Also, in 2002 in particular, the departure of key technical
staff and the lengthy procurement procedures to replace them led to delays in several
transactions. The GOU s commitment to the privatization programme together with the
recognition of the need for expanded private sector participation for some PEs that were
not initially in the project resulted in the inclusion of an additional 17 enterprises to the
project s scope of work. For the completed divestitures, terminal benefits have been paid
prior to or upon divestiture, in accordance with GOU policy. To date, approximately 49
billion Ush have been paid to 20,845 employees. The retrenchee tracer study shows that
the pre-retrenchment counseling that is now being carried out is beneficial in preparing
workers and has contributed substantially to limiting the negative impacts on the lives of
the retrenched workers. All divestitures have been carried out after the environmental
audits were completed. 10 public enterprises were also identified for environmental
audits, which were carried out and approved by NEMA. NEMA was expected to develop
environmental monitoring protocols and ensure their implementation but lacked the
capacity to do so. In addition, at least four communications programmes have been
carried out during the previous two years (2004 and 2005) including Privatization Open
Day, pre-divestiture employee counseling programmes, stakeholder consultations for
MPs, NGOs and the private sector, proactive media relations including quarterly press
briefings, radio programs and training for reporters.

Utility Sector Reform Component

- Energy.         The Uganda Electricity Generation Company Limited (UEGCL)
concessioning process was completed in November 2002 with the signing of agreements
with Eskom Uganda Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eskom Enterprises SA. The
concessioning negotiations concerning the Uganda Electricity Distribution Company
(UEDCL) were completed in May 2004 with the signing of the agreement with CDC (56
percent) and Eskom Enterprises (44 percent) which formed a local company, UMEME
Ltd., to operate the electricity distribution system for 20 years.

- Water Sector. The reform strategy containing specific proposals for reforming the


                                               45

sector were approved by the GOU in 2001. In February 2002, private sector participation
was achieved in the sector through the signing of an agreement with an international
water operator (Ondeo services) to provide management services to the Kampala area.
This agreement expired in February 2004 but was not renewed mainly because 1) the
services fee demanded by Ondeo was too high and 2) Ondeo's global corporate strategy
changed and became more negative regarding the perception of global water markets,
especially in Sub- Saharan Africa. A transaction advisor was selected to implement the
lease option by March 2003. The procurement process for this advisor was interrupted by
an investigation of the Inspectorate of Government which lasted 18 months. In the
meantime, Internally Delegated Management Contracts (IDMCs) were launched in seven
towns, followed by Kampala, in 2004. These performance enhancement programs have
resulted in modest improvements in performance. In October 2003, the Cabinet revisited
the reform strategy and approved a wider range of PPI as opposed to previously focusing
on a lease arrangement. Reforms in the water sector have been characterized by a general
lack of consensus. Studies confirm that the recent trends both within Uganda and in the
international market for water operators and that the assumptions on which the decision
to pursue a lease contract with an international water operator were based, are no longer
valid. It was recognized that there are existing regulatory mandates which are not being
effectively carried out but these can be dealt with by strengthening the existing
regulatory mechanism rather than creating a new agency.

- Railway Sector.      The concessioning of the Uganda Railways Corporation was
completed with the signature of the concession agreement in early 2006.

- Telecommunications Sector. Capacity building has been undertaken for the regulating
agency. The regulatory agency also procured equipment and now has the capacity to
carry out mobile spectrum monitoring and management. Significant growth has been
achieved in the mobile telephone market. There has also been growth in the number of
jobs in the sector resulting from liberalization of the provision of services.

- Regulatory Framework. It was agreed with IDA that a consultant be hired to review the
existing regulatory framework in Uganda and make recommendations on necessary
restructuring options. A shortlist was prepared and the request for proposals was issued
with IDA s approval before credit closure. It was agreed that this assignment is still
necessary and that government will seek to fund it from the Private Sector
Competitiveness II Project.

Financial Oversight of Public Enterprises

- Subsidies.     A review of the period FY 1999/00 to FY 2002/03 indicates that the
recurrent subsidies from the state to the PE sector declined from Shs. 101 B in FY
1999/00 to Shs 92 B in FY 2002/03. Subsidies to Class I PEs (those that will remain
under state ownership) steadily increased from Shs 27.7 B in FY 1999/00 and Shs. 43.4
B in FY 2002/03 while the subsidies to the Commercial PEs declined from Shs 73.7 B in
FY 1999/00 to Shs 48.9 B in FY 2002/03.              With respect to commercial PEs the
cumulative decline in subsidies has been 34 percent for the period 1999/00 to 2002/03.



                                              46

The Shs. 25 B decline in subsidies between 1999/00 and 2002/03 for the commercial PEs
has largely been a result of a variety of measures including divestitures, PUSRP board
representation, the Parastatal Monitoring Unit's (PMU's) annual PE budget review and
discipline at various government centres in recognition of GOU's policy to minimize
direct funding and other forms of direct subsidies.

- Debt. A PE Loan Restructuring Study was conducted and the findings were that PEs,
over the years, have generally not serviced their loan obligations and have continued to
accumulate loan arrears which stood at Shs. 492 B, representing 30 percent of the total
PE GOU loan indebtedness (as of June 30, 2004). The study recommends extending loan
periods and in some cases, writing off interest payments rather than principal amounts. It
was noted that a large number of loans are undocumented and need to be regularized for
tracking and repayment purposes. Implementation of the restructuring recommendations
was underway by credit closure and the exercise is expected to be concluded by the PMU
with the oversight of the Ministry of Finance.

- Statutory Compliance. Compliance with statutory requirements by PEs continued to be
monitored in an effort to improve performance and corporate governance in the sector
using five indicators.

- Public Enterprise Restructuring.         Under financial oversight of PEs, several
restructuring programmes have been implemented for various enterprises: National
Medical Stores, Kilembe Mines, Post Bank Uganda, Uganda Posts, Mandela National
Stadium, Uganda Seeds, Uganda Printing and Publishing Corporation and National
Housing and Construction, with varying results in improving financial performance and
delivery of services.

Project Coordination Component

- Staffing.   Since the Mid-term review, two PUSRP professional staff left the project
and were not replaced due to the uncertainty about the project closure date.

- Financial and Work Program Reporting. The project met all IDA and GOU reporting
requirements.    Quarterly Project Management/Monitoring Reports are prepared and
submitted to IDA within 45 days after the end of each quarter as required.           Proper
financial records are maintained and accounts are audited as required. The slow start in
project implementation resulted in a difference between disbursement plans and the
amount actually disbursed. Between 2001 and 2002 there was limited disbursement from
the credit proceeds arising from the delay in project effectiveness and the nullification of
pre-effectiveness procurement actions.      Significant disbursement started in the first
quarter of 2003. This was a result of a slow start in procurement of goods and services
due to the continued GOU interference in privatization procedures, mainly through
divestiture strategy reversals. These reversals created delays in the procurement of
transaction advisors which in turn, resulted in delays in the completion of transactions.

- Procurement. At the beginning of project implementation, the project experienced



                                            47

procurement delays due to learning effects and the streamlining of the procurement
procedures. By the Mid-term Review, project procurement capacity had improved
substantially and communication with IDA had improved as well. A post-procurement
review in May 2005 commended the PUSRP for their Procurement Tracking System and
recommended that other IDA-funded projects in Uganda visit the PUSRP to learn best
practice in procurement management.

Lessons Learned

1.        Inconsistency by IDA on Decision on Credit Closure - During the Mid-term
review, it was agreed that PUSRP concentrate on certain activities which would guide the
decision on the government's request for an extension to the credit. The review to
determine whether or not there would be an extension was held too late, in December
2005, one month before the closing date. As a result, there were a number of outstanding
activities which are expected to be completed with funding from the government as it
becomes available.

2.      Consensus building It is very important to have consensus between stakeholders
otherwise delays arise from differing strategies. This is clearly illustrated in the case of
Uganda Development Bank where the government wanted to retain the bank but the
International Monetary Fund wanted it sold.

3.      Pressure to meet privatizations in numbers This approach does not adequately
take into account the possible obstacles.

4.      Legal Environment The role of the law is very important and having the PERD
Act in place has helped provide discipline in the procedures. Discipline has also been
enhanced by the use of the detailed Divestitures Procedures Manual.

5.      Labour Issues Labour issues should always be dealt with upfront. Leaving them
to the end may disrupt the divestiture process. A clear example can be seen in the
proposed joint concession of Uganda Railways and Kenya Railways. The workers at
Uganda Railways halted the transaction demanding to have "fair" compensation from the
Government.

6.       Transparency   It is important for the divestiture or reform exercise to be done
transparently. Otherwise, the various stakeholders and interested parties can disrupt the
process.

7.     Timeliness of information It is important that information is provided in a timely
and efficient manner to ensure that there are no delays in the transaction.

8.      Policy Consensus It is essential that policy consensus is obtained before major
reform programmes are implemented if they are to be successful.




                                            48

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    49

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoires, Back to Office Reports, Project Supervision Reports, Implementation Status
and Results Reports, Public Enterprise Monitoring Reports, Financial Flows between
Government and Public Enterprises Reports.

2. Development Credit Agreement, Uganda Privatization and Utility Sector Reform Project,
December 18, 2000

3. Implementation Completion Report, Privatization and Utility Sector Reform Project, Republic
of Uganda, May 2006.

4. Privatization Impact Assessment for Uganda, prepared for the PUSRP and the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning by Adam Smith International in cooperation with Ernst &
Young, April 2005.

5. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit to the Republic of Uganda for a
Privatization and Utility Sector Reform Project, Private Sector and Finance Unit, Africa Region,
May 22, 2000.

6. Project Implementation Manual, Privatization and Utility Sector Reform Project, 2000.

7. Public Enterprises Reform and Divestiture Statute of 1993 and PERD Amendment of 2000.

8. Public Sector Loan and Debt Restructuring Report for Uganda, prepared for the PUSRP and
the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning by Deloitte & Touche, March 2006.

9. Retrenched Employees Tracer Study (1992-2004) Draft prepared for the PUSRP and the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, May 2006.

10. Uganda Country Framework Report, Infrastructure Policy Memorandum, Pricewaterhouse
Coopers, October 1999.




                                              50

