                                Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                Report No: 92996-UG (Supplement)



  SUPPLEMENTAL IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS
                           REPORT
                  (Credit Number 3411-UG)

                                   ON A

                          CONTINGENT CREDIT

                 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.48 MILLION

                    (US$ 8.27 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO

                       REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                                   FOR A

    COMPONENT E UNDER PRIVATIZATION AND UTILITY SECTOR
        REFORM PROJECT, SUPPORT TO UMEME LIMITED




                             December 5, 2014




Eastern Africa Country Cluster 1 (AFCE1)
Energy and Extractive Practice Group
Africa Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective May 28, 2014)

                           Currency Unit=Shilling (Uganda)
                              US$ 1.00 =Shilling 2,550

                                 FISCAL YEAR 2015


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
 EDP          Enterprise Development Project
 ERA          Electricity Regulatory Agency
 FDI          Foreign Direct Investment
 GDP          Gross Domestic Product
 GoU          Government of Uganda
 IDA          International Development Association
 MFPED        Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
 PCU          Project Coordinating Unit
 PE           Public Enterprise
 PPI          Private Participation in Infrastructure
 PU           Privatization Unit
 PUSRP        Privatization and Utility Sector Reform Project
 SPP          Special Provision Period
 UEB          Uganda Electricity Board
 UEDCL        Uganda Electricity Distribution Company Ltd
 UEGCL        Uganda Electricity Generation Company Ltd.
 UJAS         Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy

                            Vice President:   Makhtar Diop
                          Country Director:   Philippe Dongier
           Global Practice Senior Director:   Anita Marangoly George
                         Practice Manager:    Lucio Monari
             Practice Manger (Guarantee):     Pankaj Gupta
Project Team Leader and ICR Team Leader:      Robert Schlotterer
                      ICR Primary Author:     Ada Karina Izaguirre Bradley
                                          UGANDA
                       COMPONENT E UNDER PRIVATIZATION & UTILITY SECTOR
                                      REFORM PROJECT
                                        CONTENTS

 Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information ................................................................................................................i
   B. Key Dates ..............................................................................................................................i
   C. Ratings Summary ................................................................................................................i
   D. Sector and Theme Codes .................................................................................................. ii
   E. Bank Staff ........................................................................................................................... ii
   F. Results Framework Analysis ............................................................................................ ii
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .........................................................................iv
   H. Restructuring (if any) .......................................................................................................vi
   I. Disbursement Profile ....................................................................................................... vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................................... 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 21
5. Assessment of the Guarantee in support of the Project ........................................................ 22
6. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................. 24
7. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 27
8. Comments on Issues Raised by Implementation Entity/Implementing Agencies/Partners .. 29
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing ........................................................................................ 31
Annex 2: Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 32
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................... 37
Annex 4: Bank Guarantee and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...................... 39
Annex 5: List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................... 41
Map ............................................................................................................................................. 43
   A. Basic Information
                                                                                Privatization & Utility
Country:                   Uganda                      Project Name:
                                                                                Sector Reform
                                                                                IDA-34110,IDA-
Project ID:                P050439                     L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                                3411A,IDA-B0070
ICR Date:                  09/03/2014                  ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                                REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:        SIL                         Borrower:
                                                                                UGANDA
Original Total
                             XDR 4.48                Disbursed Amount:          XDR 0.0
Commitment:
   Environmental Category: B
   Implementing Agencies:
    Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
   Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

   B. Key Dates
                                                                                            Revised /
       Process             Date                Process             Original Date               Actual
                                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:                         Effectiveness:             02/27/2005            03/02/2005
Appraisal:             10/15/2004       Restructuring(s):                                11/27/2006
Approval:              12/14/2004       Mid-term Review:
                                        Closing:                   02/28/2015            03/30/2014

   C. Ratings Summary
   C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
   Outcomes:                                           Satisfactory
   Risk to Development Outcome:                        Modest
   Bank Performance:                                   Satisfactory
   Borrower Performance:                               Satisfactory

  C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
            Bank                  Ratings             Borrower                            Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:                       Satisfactory
                                              Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                                     Satisfactory
                                              Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                                            Satisfactory
Performance:                                  Performance:

    C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
       Implementation                              QAG Assessments
                                  Indicators                                             Rating
           Performance                                      (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                       Quality at Entry
                            No                                       None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):




                                                   i
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of Supervision
                            No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       (QSA):
 DO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

   D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                     Original           Actual
   Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
   Central government administration                                52                  55
   Other social services                                            48                  45


   Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
   Regulation and competition policy                                     50                  50
   State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization                50                  50

   E. Bank Staff
           Positions                           At ICR                           At Approval
    Vice President:              Makhtar Diop                            Gobind Nankani
    Country Director:            Philippe Dongier                        Judy M. O’Connor
    Practice Manager:            Lucio Monari                            Demba Ba
    Project Team Leader:         Robert Schlotterer                      Lucy Fye
    ICR Team Leader:             Robert Schlotterer
    ICR Primary Author:          Ada Karina Izaguirre Bradley


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's development objective is to improve the quality, coverage and economic efficiency
of commercial and utility services, through privatization, private participation in infrastructure
(PPI) and an improved regulatory framework.

Component E was fully in-line with the Development Objective of the umbrella operation
(P050439 and IDA-34110) as it was designed to help finalize the concessioning of the electricity
distribution services. But as it was transaction specific, its development objective was limited to
electricity distribution services.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.




                                                     ii
   (a) PDO Indicator(s) related to Component E of the Project

                                               Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                 Values (from                          Achieved at
    Indicator            Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                   approval                           Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                  documents)                           Target Years
   Indicator 1 :      Coverage Rate (% of population with grid-based connections) in Electricity
Value
quantitative or       3.8 % (1999)                  7 % (2005)                            15% (2013)
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
   Indicator 2 :      Losses in power sector (units billed as % of units produced)
Value
                                                    25 % (June
quantitative or       34 % (1999)                                                         24.3 % (2013)
                                                       2005)
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                      Actual losses were higher than initially reported at the onset of the operation. The
(incl. %
                      operation was successful at reducing losses.
achievement)

   (b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s) related to Component E of the project

                                                                           Formally          Actual Value
                                                   Original Target
                                                                            Revised           Achieved at
     Indicator         Baseline Value               Values (from
                                                                             Target         Completion or
                                                 approval documents)
                                                                             Values          Target Years
                 The privatization of distribution assets being finalized and remaining in place throughout
   Indicator 1 :
                 the life of the operation.
                 IDA support to the            Arranging the IDA        IDA support      Privatization
                 distribution Concession       support to meet the      was extended completed in March
                 was a condition of            contractually agreed     until the end of 2005.
Value
                 effectiveness under the       transferred date set for the SPP period,
(quantitative
                 Privatization Agreements the distribution assets; but no later
or Qualitative)
                 signed on May 17, 2004. December 2004.                 than February
                                                                        2014.

                    Umeme investors were         Privatization remained                     Privatization
                    willing to enter into the    in place by the end of                     remained in place
                    distribution business for    IDA support (March                         by end of the
                    an 18 month “trail”          2012).                                     operation.
                    period at the end of
                    which they would decide
                    to stay or terminate the
                    Concession.
Date achieved
Comments           The Special Provision Period (SPP) was set up to take into account the impact of the power




                                                       iii
(incl. %          supply crisis on Umeme.
achievement)      Indicators were fully achieved. It should be noted that the concession survived a
                  challenging environment due to a power supply crisis, and was delivering solid operational
                  and financial results by the Project closing. Little risk of cancellation by end of IDA
                  support period.
Indicator 2 :      ERA approving tariff adjustments according to the tariff methodology.
                                                                                             Tariff adjustments
                                                                                             between 2005 and
                   To keep tariffs in line                                                   2012 followed the
                                                                             In 2006,
                   with market conditions                                                    agreed methodology
                                                                            tariffs started
                   and cost reflective, ERA Tariffs to be adjusted                           and parameters set at
                                                                            to be adjusted
                   was responsible for          between 2005 and 2012                        the onset of the
Value                                                                       quarterly to
                   making annual                according to                                 Concession.
(quantitative                                                               take into
                   adjustments using the        methodology approved
or Qualitative)                                                             account the
                   tariff methodology           at the onset of the                          By end of 2012,
                                                                            impact of
                   (including key               Concession.                                  ERA was also able to
                                                                            power supply
                   parameters) set at the                                                    set methodology and
                                                                            crisis.
                   onset of the Concession.                                                  operational targets
                                                                                             for a new tariff
                                                                                             period (2013-2018).
Date achieved
                   Indicator was successfully achieved. ERA adjusted tariffs between 2005 and 2012 in a
Comments
                   professional and technical manner for the most part; following the methodology agreed at
(incl. %
                   the onset of the concession. ERA followed similar approach for setting values of key
achievement)
                   parameters the new tariff period 2013-2018.

   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                                     Actual
            Date ISR
 No.                                     DO                               IP                       Disbursements
            Archived
                                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1        02/12/2001                Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                         0.00
  2        05/22/2001                Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                         0.76
  3        06/28/2001                Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                         0.97
  4        12/18/2001                Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                         1.44
  5        05/16/2002                Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                         2.77
  6        12/20/2002                Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        10.43
  7        05/30/2003                Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        12.61
  8        10/24/2003                Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        15.45
  9        05/27/2004                Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        18.18
 10        11/19/2004                Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        20.32
 11        06/24/2005                Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory                 22.77
 12        12/28/2005                Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        24.50
 13        06/26/2006                Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        31.16
 14        01/23/2007                Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        31.28
 15        06/28/2007                Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory                 31.28
 16        12/20/2007                Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        31.28




                                                       iv
17   06/02/2008       Satisfactory              Satisfactory          31.28
18   12/17/2008       Satisfactory              Satisfactory          31.28
19   05/04/2009       Satisfactory              Satisfactory          31.28
20   12/17/2009   Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory          31.28
21   06/08/2010   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   31.28
22   03/28/2011   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   31.28
23   12/04/2011   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   31.28
24   06/30/2012   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   31.28
25   03/17/2013   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   31.28
26   09/17/2013   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   31.28
27   04/01/2014   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   31.28




                                        v
  H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at     Amount
                Board
Restructuring            Restructuring   Disbursed at       Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved
  Date(s)                               Restructuring in            Changes Made
              PDO Change    DO      IP   USD millions

                                                           To incorporate a guarantee support
                                                           for Umeme concession. Credit 3411-
                                                           UG was at the end of its
                                                           implementation and had undisbursed
                                                           funds. It was an innovative way to
                                                           use an IDA allocation to structure a
                                                           support that had the same PDO of an
                                                           existing operation. More importantly
                                                           the decision was responsive to the
   12/14/2004       N         S      S           20.53     needs of the GoU to expedite the
                                                           approval of the IDA support. GoU up
                                                           to nine months to put place IDA
                                                           support, which was a condition of
                                                           effectiveness for the Transfer of the
                                                           Umeme Concession. The decision
                                                           was cost-effective as the preparation
                                                           cost of a restructuring was more
                                                           commensurable to the amount of
                                                           guarantee support (US$5.5 million).

                                                           To expand and extend the IDA
                                                           guarantee support to Umeme in a
                                                           manner deemed necessary to
                                                           maintain the viability of Umeme
   11/27/2006       N         S      S           31.28     Concession after Uganda started
                                                           facing a major power supply crisis.
                                                           Section 2.2 explains the crisis and its
                                                           impact on the project.




                                            vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1.   Context at Appraisal

Country background

1. At the time of appraisal in 2005, Uganda had transformed from a nearly failed state to a
country achieving consistently high economic growth rates and significant reductions in poverty.
The country’s GDP grew at an average annual rate of 6.9% in the 1990s and 5.5% in early
2000s. The proportion of the population living below the poverty line declined from 56% in 1992
to 34% in 2000. Such progress was the result of the Government of Uganda (GoU) reform
policies that pursued macroeconomic stability and promoted economic liberalization and private
sector-based, export-led growth.

2.      Prospects of further growth and poverty reduction, however, were hampered by the poor
performance of public enterprises and their high dependency on subsidies. The power sector was
one of the worst performers, suffering from a number of problems: Extensive and increasing load
shedding, inadequate investment to maintain and expand the power network and supply,
collection rate of less than 50% of power generated, losses varying between 30% and 40%, high
account receivables driven by non-payment of government entities, low productive, and a
national access rate of 5%. Power losses in Uganda were the highest in Africa while the access
rate was the lowest. By 2000, the power sector was close to insolvency.

Sector Background

3.      In this context, the Government viewed the public enterprise sector reform and
privatization program as a central piece of its long-term growth strategy. The program aimed to
(i) reduce the role of the State in the economy; (ii) improve the quantity, quality, and efficiency
of public services; and, (iii) reduce the financing burden that public enterprises posed on public
finances. In the power sector, the GoU approved a reform strategy in June 1999 that called for
developing Uganda’s hydro power resources through Independent Power Producers, and
adopting a commercially-oriented approach to increase power access and improve performance.
The main function of Government became to create an enabling environment for private
investment by levelling the playing field for private sector participants, creating a regulatory
framework that supported private investment, setting cost recovery tariffs, and establishing
transparent subsidy transfer and financing mechanism. To implement this strategy, the GoU
passed a new power act in November 1999; established the Electricity Regulatory Authority
(ERA) as independent sector regulator in April 2000; unbundled the national utility Uganda
Power Board (UEB) into generation, transmission, and distribution in March 2001, and, took
measures to correct government agencies’ billing arrears in late 2001. ERA raised and
rebalanced power tariffs in line with long run marginal cost effective in June 2001.




                                                  1
4.      In the new sector strategy, the concessioning of the distribution assets was considered
fundamental to the underpinning of the commercial viability of the power sector, and to support
future new generation investment, including Bujagali Hydropower Plant. The primary objectives
of the distribution concession were to improve the commercial power distribution operations and
increase electrification.

5.      The GoU launched international tender processes to select strategic investors for its
generation and distribution assets in 2001. Eskom Uganda Ltd, a whole-owned subsidiary of
South African Eskom Enterprises, was selected as the concessionaire for the existing generating
assets. The state-owned holding company for generation assets (UEGCL) signed a 20 year
concession with Eskom Uganda Ltd in November 2002. The handover of generation assets was
completed in April 2003.

Project Context and Design

6.      The concessioning of distribution assets, which was the first one for an unbundled
distribution network in Sub-Saharan Africa, proved to be more challenging. Developments in the
international market reduced the risk appetite of potential investors. At the beginning of the
tender process, about 5 to 6 companies showed interest in Uganda’s power distribution assets,
but the interest later declined due to the collapse of US Enron and the re-assessment of the
potential for profit in small markets such as the Ugandan. By the end of the tender process, the
Government received only one bid from Umeme, a joint venture between Eskom Enterprises
(44%) and Globeleq Ltd of Bermuda (56%), a wholly-owned subsidiary of UK based Globeleq
Ltd. Eskom provided technical expertise to manage a distribution business, while Globeleq
brought commercial and financial expertise.

7. While Umeme recognized that GoU had made remarkable progress in reforming the power
sector, it still perceived power distribution services as prone to political intervention. The sector
regulator, ERA, had yet to build a track record of independent and technical decision making
relative to tariffs; public entities had yet to prove that they would pay their bills in a timely
manner; and, the government had yet to build a record of honouring its payment obligations in a
timely manner. After a year of protracted negotiations, it was clear to the GoU that IDA support
was required to secure the Umeme’s commitment.

8. The IDA team opted for helping GoU structure a security package to mitigate the perceived
political and regulatory risks by including in it an IDA Guarantee to backstop key government
payment obligations. The Privatization Agreements between GoU and Umeme were concluded
on May 17, 2004 and made IDA support a condition of effectiveness for the Transfer Date of the
Concession. The IDA Guarantee became effective on March 3, 2005.

9.   The IDA team opted for designing the guarantee support as an additional component
(Component E) to the Privatization and Utility Sector Reform Project (P050439 and Credit 3411-




                                                   2
UG), which was towards the end of its implementation period. The IDA contingent credit for
Umeme was a natural fit to Credit 3411-UG, which had been supporting the privatization of
public enterprises and sector reforms in infrastructure services since 2000 (Section 2.1). The four
other components of Credit 3411-UG closed in January 2006 and their respective
Implementation Completion Report was submitted to the Board in July 2006.

10.     Therefore, this is a supplemental Implementation Completion Report that covers
Component E (US$5.5 million contingent IDA credit to support Umeme concession) as indicated
in the credit restructuring paper approved in December 2004. For the evaluation of the other
Project components, please see the ICR dated July 31, 2006 Report No: ICR-000041.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

11.      The IDA contingent credit support was fully in line with the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) at the time of appraisal and aimed to contribute to two CAS objectives: (i) reduce poverty
through broad-base economic growth led by the private sector; and (ii) improve the welfare of
the entire population by improving the quality of, and access to infrastructure services. By
facilitating the concessioning of distribution assets, the IDA contingent credit was helping to
secure private participation in distribution, which aimed to improve service provision, and
channel at least US$65 million in private investment in the first five years of the concession.

12.    MIGA also supported Umeme Concession by providing an insurance coverage for up to
US$45 million for equity and shareholder loans to cover termination payments in 2005. The
combination of IDA guarantee support and MIGA coverage gave enough comfort to Umeme
investors to undertake the 20-year distribution Concession.

1.2.   Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

13.     According to the Development Credit Agreement, the original objectives of the Credit
were “to support the Borrower in carrying out of its policy to improve the quality, coverage and
economic efficiency of commercial and utility service through: (a) the divestiture and
restructuring of the remaining Public Enterprises; (b) increased private sector participation in the
provision of infrastructure in sectors such as telecommunications, energy, water and rail
transport; and (c) the strengthening of the regulatory framework and institutions required to carry
out the said policy”. The PDO remained unchanged when Component E was introduced as this
component was designed to complete an outcome under Component B of the umbrella operation
(P050439 and IDA-34110) as indicated in the Project Design Summary of the original PAD.
Component E was to help finalize the concessioning of the electricity distribution services. As
the component was transaction specific, the development objective was limited to electricity
distribution services.

14.    The two performance indicators set for the power sector in the original PAD were also




                                                   3
kept as those indicators were a good proxy for measuring the achievement of the PDO. The two
indicators were:

       (i)     To increase access rate to grid connection from a baseline of 3.8% of population in 1999
       to 7% in 2005; and

       (ii)    To reduce power losses (units billed as % of units produced) from a baseline 34% in 1999
       to 25% in 2005.

15. The target values of those indicators were not revised because of the lack of reliability of
available data, and the understanding that the concession agreement would supersede any
revision of the baselines and targets (see paragraph 34).

16. During the implementation support phase, the project team added two intermediate
indicators to the monitoring and evaluation arrangements to better assess the performance of the
operation. The new indicators were:

       (i)     The privatization of distribution assets being finalized, and remaining in place; and

       (ii)    ERA approving tariff adjustments according to the tariff methodology.

17.    These two intermediate indicators became highly relevant to guide the implementation
support of the IDA contingent credit as Umeme concession faced challenging circumstances
during its first years due to a major power supply crisis in the country as explained sections 2.2
and 6.1.b.

1.3.  Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification.

18.    There were no revisions.

1.4.   Main Beneficiaries

19.     The beneficiaries of Component E were similar to those of the Original project. The
original PAD of 2000 identified three broad target groups as main beneficiaries for the original
Project. When applied to the power distribution business, the expected beneficiaries were:

       (i)     The Private Sector: the business community was expected to enjoy investment
       opportunities through privatization. It was also to benefit from better quality of utility services
       and reduced costs of production factors which would lead to increased competitiveness.

       (ii)     Local Population: In the short run, the workforce of a privatized company was expected
       to be downsized as a result of retrenchment of excess staff. However, in the medium term, the
       Project would lead to reduction in unemployment through more rapid growth of concessioned
       distribution business, and its indirect effect on the creation of more employment opportunities in




                                                      4
       the private sector. The population with access to the grids was also to gain from improved access
       as well as more quantity and better quality of services resulting from improvements in operational
       efficiency and network extension.

       (iii)   Government: By helping the GoU implement its privatization and sector reform
       program, the Project was to lead to lower fiscal and administrative burden of power distribution
       on the GoU.

20.      In addition, the Amendment to Credit 3411-UG stated that the principal benefits of the
new component were to: (i) help secure a private investor for the concessioning of the country’s
power distribution assets; (ii) lead to a more effective delivery of power services through agreed
operational performance milestones; and, (iii) catalyze at least US$65 million of investments in
the first five years of the concession for the expansion of services.

1.5.   Original Components (as approved)

21.     As mentioned under Section 1.1, this report only evaluates Component E of the Project
that availed of the US$5.5 million contingent IDA credit to support the Umeme concession.

22.     Through the credit restructuring approved in December 2004 and the subsequent
amendment of Credit 3411-UG in November 2006, Component E was added to the Project and
consisted of a US$5.5 million IDA contingent credit to support a liquidity facility for the benefit
of the private power distribution concessionaire, Umeme Ltd. The IDA contingent credit
behaved like a Guarantee with no expected disbursement until the closure of the Project. Such
IDA support was a critical element of the Security Package requested by Umeme Ltd. to
undertake the power distribution business in Uganda.

23.     The Security Package aimed to mitigate important political and regulatory risks regarding
the ability of the government to fulfil its contractual obligations and government interference in
sector operations; the regulator’s ability to follow the new regulatory framework particularly
regarding tariff adjustments; and the ability of government entities to pay their power bills in a
timely manner. Under the Privatization Agreements, GoU and Umeme agreed to the Security
Package that would give Umeme the right to access funds to be compensated for losses of
revenue that occurred under the following six events:

       (i)     Failure by ERA to approve tariff adjustments according to the Tariff Methodology in the
       Distribution and Supply License.

       (ii)    Non-payment by GoU entities of their Power bills.

       (iii)   Early Termination of the Concession by Umeme resulting from a breach of the
       Privatization Agreements by GoU or its entities during the first 18 months of the Concession.




                                                     5
       (iv)      Early Termination of the Concession by Umeme for reasons related to the company
       during the first 18 months which would entitle Umeme to a US$2.5 million compensation for the
       initial investment of US$5 million.

       (v)    Refunds made by Umeme of the Concession Fee and Security Deposit provided by
       customers of UEDCL prior to the transfer date.

       (vi)    Termination of the Concession due to UEDCL or GoU Events of Default, and political or
       other force majeure events.

24. The Security Package consisted of the following support measures: (i) monthly lease rents,
(ii) an Escrow Account, (iii) a Letter of Credit (L/C) Facility; and (iv) IDA Contingent Credit
that backstopped the L/C Facility. The L/C Facility and the IDA Contingent Credit were
accessible to Umeme only for the first three events listed above, and after preceding mitigation
measures were exhausted from monthly lease rents and the Escrow Account. Each component of
the Security Package was structured as follows:

   •   Monthly Lease Rents: Umeme had to pay a monthly lease rent to UEDCL calculated
       based on an agreed methodology. The monthly lease rent was paid into the Escrow
       Account.

   •   Escrow Account: UEDCL provided an initial funding of US$2.5 million and, the
       monthly lease rent payments provided additional funding up to a cap of US$20 million.
       The Escrow account was in place for the duration of the Concession.

   •   L/C Facility: UEDCL issued a Standby Letter of Credit (L/C) from a local bank in favor
       of Umeme with initial value of US$2.5 million and US$5 million after the first year.
       UEDCL agreed to maintain the L/C effective for seven years following the privatization.
       If needed, the L/C would be replenished through either a claw-back from lease fee
       payments deposited in the Escrow Account or direct payments by GoU or UEDCL during
       the twelve months of L/C Repayment Period. UEDCL would have to pay to the L/C bank
       any balance after the Repayment Period.

   •   IDA Contingent Credit for the L/C Facility: In the event that UEDCL failed to make
       the required repayment by the end of the L/C Repayment Period, the L/C issuing bank
       was entitled to claim from IDA the repayment. The IDA support was made available for
       8 years and 25 days to cover the L/C period plus the repayment and cure periods.




                                                  6
1.6.   Revised Components

25. There were no revisions.

1.7.   Other significant changes

26.      In November 2006, the IDA credit was amended to (i) extend the maximum end date of
IDA support to the L/C Facility from March 2013 to February 2015; (ii) include IDA coverage
for termination payments as a first loss, to MIGA’s cover for GoU breach of its commitments
relating to minimum energy supply and payments related to losses; and (iii) backstop the risk of
timely tariff on a quarterly basis per sector requirements instead of annual adjustments as
initially agreed.

27.    Those changes were deemed necessary to maintain the viability of Umeme Concession
after Uganda started facing a major power supply crisis. Section 2.2 explains the crisis and its
impact on the project.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1.   Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

28.     Soundness of Background Analysis: There was an extensive project preparation work
done before the design and approval of Component E. IDA was involved since the inception of
power sector reform in Uganda. The groundwork was put by three operations implemented in the
late 1990s and the first years of the 2000s. Enterprise Development Project (Credit 2315-UG),
closed in June 2000, carried out an assessment of power sector structure options. The Power III
Project (Credit 2268-UG), closed in December 2001, financed the Transaction Advisor and
Investment Banker for the privatization of power assets. Power IV Project (Credit 35450-UG and
IDA 35454A-UG), closed in March 2008, and assisted the Ministry of Energy and Mining
Development and ERA to develop their capacity to manage sector reform and privatization.

29.     The Privatization and Utility Sector Reform Project (Credit 3411-UG), as initially
approved, provided in-depth preparation. Its four initial components were designed to support
Uganda’s policy reforms regarding: (i) the privatization of public enterprises and related labour
retrenchment; (ii) competition, legal and regulatory reforms in power and other public utilities;
and (iii) the financial context for public utilities such as tariff and subsidies policies. Except for
the Security Package discussed in this ICR, the support to design and implement power
distribution concession was undertaken under the first four components of Credit Number 3411-
UG; for which the ICR was approved in July 2006. Such ICR rated the overall project and the
Bank and Borrower performances as satisfactory. The ICR concluded that the project had a
significant positive impact on the economy; the Bank project was adequately designed and
supervised to engender major benefits to Uganda; the implementing agencies performed well;
and, the GoU was committed to the reform agenda despite its interference in some transactions.




                                                    7
30.      Under the distribution Concession, the Concessionaire was contractually obligated to
invest minimum of US$65 million by the end of fifth year. With that, the company was expected
to provide up to 60,000 new connections, reduce total losses from 33.0% to 28%, and improve
collection rates from 75% to 92.5%. Umeme, however, could request ERA to revise those targets
within two years of the Transfer Date because there was not reliable data to set baseline values
for those indicators when Concession was signed. The only reliable information at that time was
that the revenues collected represented only 50% of the electricity generated. Umeme was also
required to agree with ERA on an investment plan to ensure that it was cost effective. Power was
supplied to the Concessionaire by UETCL, which in turn purchased power from UEGCL and
other private providers. The bulk supply price was determined on a quarterly basis and was
allowed as a pass-through for the calculation of retail tariffs. The distribution component of the
tariff included: (i) O&M cost, (ii) allowance for technical and non-technical losses, and (iii) a
return on investment of 20% in US dollars during the 20-year Concession. The Concessionaire’s
lease rent payments to UEDCL were considered a pass-through cost for the calculation of retail
tariffs.

31.    The GoU and Umeme agreed to an 18-month preliminary operating and investing period
in which Umeme’s investment obligation was limited to US$5 million of the total US$65
million. Umeme would have the right to withdraw from the Concession during this preliminary
period under the terms and conditions agreed in the Government Support Agreement.

32.      Assessment of Project Design: Component E was appropriately designed and
innovative. IDA designed an operation that specifically helped to mitigate the key political and
regulatory risks for a private Concessionaire who committed to improve power distribution
services (section 1.5). Structuring IDA support as a guarantee enabled IDA to be engaged in
monitoring the Government performance and the regulatory regime during the first years of the
Concession when it was most susceptible to political interference. The investors believed that
this latter role of IDA was essential for them to proceed with the concessioning of Umeme and
invest substantial long term resources in Uganda’s power distribution.

33.     The design of the Project had one shortcoming: The lack of indicators that could assess
the actual performance of the Contingent Credit. Such gap was addressed by the team by adding
two intermediate indicators: (i) the privatization of distribution assets being finalized and
remaining in place; and (ii) ERA approving tariff adjustments according to the approved
methodology.

34.     This operation was a pioneer in the World Bank, and among IFIs, by being the first one
to backstop regulatory risk. Romania’s Banat & Dobrogea Electricity Distribution Privatization
Partial Risk Guarantee, which also pioneered the backstopping of regulatory risk, was approved
by the Board of Executive Directors in the same month as the Contingent Credit for Umeme,
December 2004.




                                                  8
35.     Restructuring an existing IDA operation (Credit 3411-UG) by adding a guarantee
component was an innovative way to use an IDA allocation to structure a support that had the
same PDO of an existing operation. Credit 3411-UG was at the end of its implementation period
and had undisbursed funds for US$8.27 million equivalent. The decision was also cost-effective
as the preparation cost of a restructuring was more commensurable to the amount of guarantee
support (US$5.5 million). More importantly, the decision was responsive to the needs of the
GoU to expedite the approval and implementation of the IDA support. The Privatization
Agreements signed on May 17, 2004, gave GoU up to nine months to put place IDA support,
which was a condition of effectiveness for the Transfer of the Concession. The IDA Guarantee
was added to Credit 3411-UG through a restructuring approved in December 2004 and became
effective on March 3, 2005.

36.     The Project was undertaken in close coordination with MIGA, which also supported
Umeme’s Concession from the outset, to ensure that support from both entities complemented
each other and the WBG support was optimized. MIGA signed four contracts to cover up to
US$45 million of equity and shareholder loans from Eskom and Globeleq against the standard
political risks (transfer restriction, expropriation, war and civil disturbance and breach of
contract) in March 2005. MIGA later adjusted its coverage to support the Concession
renegotiation in 2007 (see section 5.1).

37.     The availability of the Security Package gave Umeme the comfort that its cash flow
would be protected against GoU interference and lack of regulatory compliance with tariff
adjustments. Such comfort also facilitated Umeme access to debt financing from new sources
and on more competitive terms. For instance, Umeme obtained a US$25 million loan from IFC
with a longer tenor. Umeme expanded its shareholder base through a successful initial public
offering (IPO) on Uganda Securities Exchange in 2012 (see section 3.5.c). Umeme raised long
term finance to support its medium term investment plans in 2013 (see section 4.1). IFC actively
participated in the IPO and long term finance.

38.    Adequacy of Risk Assessment. The project team identified two key risks (operational
and a call on the guarantee) and appropriately mitigated them. The operational risk (Umeme is
unable to improve distribution performance and decides to exit at the end of the 18 months) was
mitigated by the Government’s continued support and commitment to the power sector reform
and improving sector efficiency. The risk of a call on the guarantee was mitigated through the
design of the Security Package by providing minimal IDA support and as last resort. The amount
of IDA support (a US$5.5 million contingent credit) was a fraction of the estimated amount of
annual lease rent (over US$12 million) and the cap on the Escrow Account (US$20 million). In
addition, the L/C Facility provided a twelve month repayment period which allowed sufficient
time for IDA to work with UEDCL and GoU to resolve any issues and ensure that UEDCL
would be in a position to make any required repayment.




                                                 9
39.     As indicated in the Proposed Amendment to the Legal Agreements of December 2004,
this operation did not address the supply risk (insufficient power supply) because such risk was
being addressed by other IDA interventions at that time such as Power IV Project (Credit 3545-
UG). Uganda ended up facing a major power supply crisis soon after Umeme Concession began.

40.     Adequacy of Government’s Commitment, Stakeholder Involvement and
Participatory Processes: The GOU demonstrated its strong commitment to the Project and its
objective (see Section 6.2.a). The key stakeholders (GoU and Umeme) were closely involved in
the design and preparation of the Project as described above. Given the preparatory work done
under the sector reform and targeted and specific nature of this operation, no further stakeholder
consultation was required for Component E.

2.2.   Implementation

41.     The first four years of Umeme were characterized by limited improvements in a context
of a major power crisis. When Umeme took over the concession in May 2005, Uganda had tariffs
close to cost reflective levels and stable power supply. However, the situation started to change a
few months later due to a drought; and a year later the power supply was reduced by more than
25%. The consequent power shortages were further aggravated by a rapidly growing demand and
major delays in adding new generation capacity, primarily from Bujagali Hydropower Plant. By
2006 Uganda entered into an unprecedented power crisis and faced persistent rolling blackouts
during peak demand hours. The GoU took measures to reduce power shortages, including
importing power from Kenya and contracting out emergency supply from rental plants. While
these measures reduced load shedding, they raised the cost to unsustainable levels. The cost and
tariff of bulk supply rose by more than 300% in 2006. Retail tariffs were raised by 140%
between April 2005 and November 2006. The GoU provided subsidies (US$50 million a year)
to avoid further tariff increases due to competitiveness and political concerns.

42.     Despite the challenging environment, Umeme stabilized the distribution business in the
first twelve months of operation. It reportedly reduced losses from a high of 40% to around 34%,
improved the revenue collection from 80% to 84%, and invested US$11 million in distribution
network improvement.

43.     The timing of the power crisis, however, placed Umeme and GoU in a complicated
situation. While performance improvements were a prerequisite to reduce the impact of the
power crisis and the success of the power sector reform, Umeme’s shareholders started to
reassess their investment in Uganda. In March 2006, the Boards of Globeleq and Eskom decided
not to invest further in Umeme. They had until July of that year to exercise their exit option.
Under these circumstances, the GoU decided to renegotiate key concession terms to prevent
Umeme from exercising its exit option. In the renegotiation, Umeme sought contractual
reassurance that it would be protected from operational losses caused by the crisis, and that such
protection would be backed by a risk mitigation measure from the WBG.



                                                  10
44.    Under the restructuring, GoU agreed, during the Electricity Sector Stabilization Period
(ESSP), to compensate Umeme for: (i) energy supply shortages leading to a shortfall in revenues; and (ii)
revenues shortfalls resulting from an increase in losses due to sharp and more frequent tariff increases.
The ESSP started on January 1, 2007 and continued until the earliest of:

        •        two years from the end of the Special Provision Period (SPP); or

        •       270 days after the commercial operation date of new generation capacity of at
        least 150 MW at a weighted average price of no more than US$0.12 kWh; or

        •       seven years from the ESSP Effective Date. The SPP began on the ESSP Effective
        Date and ending on the earlier of (a) the date on which the Company, at its sole
        discretion, terminated the SPP, and (b) the date on which defined tariff and supply
        conditions were satisfied. IDA, as provider of the contingent credit, reviewed the
        concession amendment and, once considered it reasonable, provided its consent for the
        amendment and extended the term of its guarantee support as well as risk coverage to
        include power supply risk.

45.     The concession amendment was signed in November 2006. Nevertheless, Eskom decided
to exit while Globeleq opted to continue and purchased Eskom’s equity stake. To support the
restructuring, MIGA adjusted its termination coverage for Globeleq to include the risk of lack of
power supply and support the Security Package in 2007.

46.     Umeme continued to invest, expanded access and improved collection rates, but had less
success with power losses. Umeme invested US$46 million and increased its customer base by
7% to 313,000 by the first half of 2009. 1 The collection rate improved from 85% in 2005 to 92%
in the first half of 2009. Conversely, total losses oscillated between 31% and 35% without a
discernible pattern. Despite lack of progress on loss reduction, Umeme was never in breach of its
performance targets as the 2006 amendment gave it the right to have temporary spikes
(increases) in total loss levels during the SPP.

2.3.    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

47.    When Component E was introduced in 2004, the Results Framework of the original
Project was adopted and remained unchanged. The ICR for the Original Components A to D,
prepared and approved in 2007, assessed the design of the M&E arrangements as “relatively
well-designed, detailed key performance indicators of output and outcome were identified at the
beginning of the project and were regularly updated by the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU).



1
 This customer growth reflects the adjustments made by Umeme after correcting its customer database from
dormant, duplicated or inexistent customers in the first half of 2008.




                                                        11
The project was exceptionally good in terms of the quality and quantity of tracked indicators,
which assisted in monitoring progress.”

48.     At the partial closure of the Project in 2007, when the implementation of all the Project’s
components except for Component E was accomplished, most of the Project’s PDO and
Intermediate Outcome Indicators were achieved or became irrelevant for monitoring purposes,
when they related to the then already closed Project Components A-D. Consequently the team
continued monitoring only the outcome indicators relevant to the Component E supported
electricity distribution concession activities.

49.     Taking into account the specific risks covered by the contingent credit structure under
Component E, the team added couple of intermediate indicators (privatization of distribution
assets being finalized and remaining in place; and ERA approving tariff adjustments according to
the tariff methodology) to better measure the distribution concession’s outcomes during the
supervision phase.

50.     Umeme collected Quality data for Component E throughout implementation. Data
reporting was also done effectively and comprehensively by Umeme and was satisfactory
overall.

2.4.   Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards:

51.     The Component E was introduced to the Project in 2004 without invoking any of the
Bank’s Safeguards Policies. For the duration of the lease, Umeme was obliged to carry out any
investments into the distribution network in compliance with Uganda's environmental policies,
laws, regulatory and administrative frameworks. In addition, at the onset of the Concession and
during the Bank’s supervision of the Project’s Component E, Umeme developed and
subsequently implemented an environmental management plan for the distribution network that
was consistent with Ugandan Law and that was also reviewed and cleared by the Bank. During
the implementation of Component E, the Bank team further carried out an audit of Umeme’s
compliance with the Ugandan Environmental Laws as well as its compliance with the
Environmental Management Plan. The assessment concluded that the arrangements established
by Umeme were satisfactory and compliant with the relevant laws. No major environmental or
social issues were reported during the implementation of this project component.

Fiduciary:

52.     The nature of the Project’s Component E, a contingent credit, implied that no
disbursements occurred under this component as long as no payment had to be made to the L/C
bank as a result of UECDL repayment default. Since the Component E supported L/C was never
triggered during Project implementation no disbursements under this Component occurred



                                                  12
during implementation. The FM arrangements therefore were restricted to the supervision of the
Project’s annual external audit reporting arrangements. Financial management aspects of this
Component E were continuously rated Satisfactory or Moderately Satisfactory throughout
project implementation.

53.    There was no procurement for Component E as it did not entail any IDA financing for
investments.

2.5.   Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

54.     Uganda had been able to significantly improve performance of its grid power distribution
services through Umeme Concession (see section 3.2). The performance improvements are
expected to continue as Umeme agreed to aggressive but realistic targets on loss reduction and
collection rates for the 2013-2018 tariff review period. Such targets will (i) push Umeme to
continue obtaining efficiency gains to remain profitable; and, (ii) allow transferring part of the
efficiency gains to consumers through lower power distribution charges.

55.     Going forward Uganda has the challenge to speed up its grid expansion rate to increase
the national electrification rate, which at 15% in 2013 remained below the average for Sub-
Saharan Africa overall (32%). Expanding access through private financing alone would be
constrained by affordability issues due to higher cost of private financing. However, combining
private sector efficiencies in network rollout and operation with the lower cost of donor
financing could accelerate access expansion.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes
3.1.   Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (at the ICR time)

Rating: High

56.     The operation was highly relevant and reflected a proper diagnosis of a developmental
priority for Uganda. At the time of appraisal, the project’s objective was critical for Uganda, as
indicated in the Joint Assistance Strategy (JAS) of FY05-FY09. The bottlenecks in the power
sector had become major constraints for economic growth. Only 7% of the population had access
to power in 2005 and those with access had very unreliable services. Ugandan firms perceived
the lack of reliable power as the greatest threat to their competitiveness with 45% of them
reporting insufficient and unreliable electricity supply as major or very severe. By supporting the
improvement of power supply, IDA and other development partners helped to reduce the cost of
doing business and linked isolated populations or areas of the country to the broader economy.
The project’s objective remained relevant under the CAS of FY11-15, which had as one of its
goals to improve the reliability of power services to sustain economic growth. The IDA
continued to support projects that expand generation capacity and increase access in Uganda.




                                                  13
57.     The Project was designed to mitigate the political and regulatory risks for a private
concessionaire that committed to improve the performance of power distribution business and
increase investment. The implementation of the project consisted of closely monitoring the risks
covered by IDA to prevent a call on the guarantee, and thereby sustain the Concession. Such
monitoring was critical to identify emerging disagreements between the Concessionaire and the
GoU and support their timely resolution by playing an honest broker role. In that regard the
Project indicators were appropriate to support the implementation phase and flexible enough to
adapt to changes.

3.2.    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: High

58.     The PDO of improving the quality, coverage and economic efficiency of utility services,
through privatization, private participation in infrastructure (PPI) and an improved regulatory
framework was successfully achieved. By structuring and supporting a Security Package for the
Umeme Concession, Component E helped to secure private concessionaires for Uganda power
distribution assets. The private operation of power distribution assets led to a more efficient
delivery of services and brought in levels of private investments much higher than initially
anticipated.

59.     Before the Project, electricity losses were 34%, collection rate was 80%, and national
access rate 7%. By the end of the IDA operation, Umeme reported a declining trend on power
losses, reaching the level of 21.6% in June 2014 (figure 1), collection rate reached 100.3% in
2013 and 96.6% in 2014 (figure 2) 2, and the national access rate was 15% in 2013. Umeme has
more than doubled its customer base that it had at the onset of the Concession, reaching 613,000
connections in June 2014 (figure 3). Umeme invested US$224 million in the distribution network
during the life of the operation (Figure 4). The Concessionaire also reported a solid financial
position with a healthy operating profit margin 3 of over 10% and strong sales growth (figure 5).




2
 The collection rate of 100.3% in 2013 includes drawdowns from the Escrow Account to clear GoU arrears (unpaid
bills from the army, police, prisons, and health sector and education institutions).
3
 It is equal to operating income divided by net sales. The operating margin measures what proportion of a
company's revenue is left after paying for O&M costs.




                                                          14
                    Figure 1 Umeme's energy losses                                  Figure 2 Umeme's collection rate
      %                                                                   US$ million
 50                                                                 110
                                                                                                             99        100.3
                                                                                                        95                     96.6
                                                                    100                            94             94
          38                                                                             90   90
 40                   35         35
               34          34                                       90              84
                                      30                                       80
 30                                         27   26                 80
                                                      24.3
                                                             21.6
                                                                    70
 20
                                                                    60

 10                                                                 50
          2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014*               2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014*




60.     Many factors contributed to the performance turnaround. First, the stabilization of power
supply and the end of the SPP in October 2009 created the conditions to move from a crisis
management to a performance improvement approach. Improvements in power supply was
achieved through committed interventions by GoU and its sector entities such as undertaking an
emergency thermal program and implementing Bujagali Hydropower Project as a private
independent power producer. Second, Umeme hired a Chief Operating Officer from the
Electricity Supply Board of Ireland and filled other managerial positions with experienced
personnel to reinforce its management team. Third, the end of the SPP implied that: (i) Umeme
and ERA had to agree on new loss reduction and collection targets, and (ii) the downside
protection to Umeme for not being able to meet its contractual targets ended. Fourth, after
extensive negotiations ERA succeeded at making Umeme commit to ambitious but realistic
regulatory targets under the 2012 tariff review (table 1). As part of this tariff review, ERA
increased the average retail tariff by 52% in January 2012 to bring it to cost recovery level. Fifth,
although ERA and UMEME had contentious relations, they showed the willingness to tackle
difficult issues through a collaborative approach, while negotiating at arm’s length. For instance,
they had monthly meetings to discuss the progress of the loss reduction plans and define the
government actions required. They also set up a Special Tariff Committee to discuss the different
components of the tariff methodology. The Committee was informed by independent advisory
firms that guided the discussions and negotiations of both parties.




                                                                          15
              Figure 3 Umeme's number of customers                                              Figure 4 Umeme's annual investment
       '000                                                                           US$ million
 700                                                                            70
                                                                       613                                                                          58
                                                                574             60
 600                                                                                                                                                       47
                                                          513                   50
 500                                               458                                                                                      36
                                                                                40
                                             405                                                                      28               28
                                   355                                          30                             23          22
 400
                       303   305                                                                      18
         292     298                                                            20
 300                                                                                      6
                                                                                10               5

 200                                                                            0
         2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014*                           2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014*
                                                                                                                                                 * As of June .
                                                                                Source: Umeme's Investors reports.




                                                            Figure 5 Umeme's sales and profit
                                             GWh                                                                              %
                                   2,500                                                                                          18

                                   2,000                                                                                          15

                                                                                                                                  12
                                   1,500
                                                                                                                                  9
                                   1,000
                                                                                                                                  6
                                    500                                                                                           3

                                         0                                                                                        0
                                               2005      2006   2007     2008    2009         2010   2011      2012    2013

                                                                 Sales (GWh)            Operating profit (%)



61.     Other key factors to achieve the turnaround were the GoU’s commitment to sector
improvement, IDA’s honest broker role, and IFC’s financial support. Due to the poor payment
records of GoU’s entities, Umeme often offset GoU entities’ payment arrears against lease
payments and drawdowns from the Escrow Account. Despite disagreements over arrears
offsetting, GoU ensured that resources, as stipulated in the Security Package, were available until
2012. The GoU’s decision to ease the path to cost reflective tariffs through subsidies during the
crisis also helped Umeme by preventing even higher commercial loss spikes than those
experienced during this period. The financial discipline introduced to the sector allowed the GoU
to gradually phase out its subsidy program, which was eliminated in 2012 after Bujagali
Hydropower plant was commissioned. Through its guarantee support, IDA was able to engage
with GoU and Umeme on sector policy dialogue and played an honest broker role when
disagreements arose to ensure that both parties remained engaged in negotiations to resolve
issues (section 6.1.b). Given that IFC and MIGA also provided support to Umeme, the WBG
coordinated its engagement when and as required.




                                                                                     16
                          Table 1: Umeme’s Agreed Regulatory Targets
          Indicator                   2013 2014 2015 2016 2017                           2018
          Energy Losses (%)           23.5   20.5   18.6    17.1 15.9                    14.9
          Revenue collection (%)      97.3   97.5   97.7    97.9 98.2                    98.5
         Source: Umeme 2013 report to shareholders.




62.      The Project helped to set a successful example of a Public Private Partnership that
improved operational performance of a power distribution company in a country perceived as
risky and with no track record on private investment in the sector. The project has also
highlighted the challenges of improving performance in poorly maintained distribution systems
and the importance of an appropriate incentive structure to do so. Aside from the power supply
crisis, Umeme was faced with unreliable information on customers and the real status of the
distribution network as well as a dilapidated distribution network which needed an almost
complete overhaul to reduce technical losses to international standards and to minimize
electricity theft. Designing and implementing a business solution to those problems and building
the required capacity within the company and with local suppliers took much longer than
anticipated at the inception of the Project. Subsequently, Umeme was able to significantly
improve its operational performance. In this context, the two years given by the Concession
Agreement to revise the performance targets facilitated the negotiations between ERA and
Umeme on that topic as both entities understood that major work was required before being able
to set realistic targets as it was done in the 2012-2018 tariff review.

3.3.       Efficiency

Rating: Satisfactory

63.     Detailed economic and financial analysis of the project was not carried out at the
appraisal stage of Component E as the component was designed to finalize a reform program
supported by the umbrella operation (Credit Number 3411-UG). The economic and financial
rational of the umbrella operation was undertaken during its appraisal and Board approval in
2000. The substantial improvement in operational performance and solid financial situation of
Umeme confirmed that the financial and economic benefits achieved by Component E have been
substantial.

64.     Financial performance of Umeme: The utility has had positive operating income and
cash flows since the beginning of the Concession. It has also reported operating profitability with
a growing EBITDA 4 and solid EBITDA ratio 5 (figure 6). The current projections indicate
EBITDA will continue to grow while EBITDA ratio will stabilize around 13% to 14% between

4
    EBITDA stands for Earning Before Interests, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization.
5
    EBITDA ratio is EBITDA divided by total revenue.




                                                            17
2014 and 2018. The main drivers of this financial performance have been operational
improvements, capital investments, and sales growth. Such performance has allowed Umeme to
access to the financing it requires to undertake its investment program.

65.     Economic analysis: The main economic benefit was the incremental power supplied to
consumers as a result of power system investments, specifically in access expansion and
reduction in power losses. The ultimate benefits thus derive from end-user (household,
commercial or industrial) consumption on account of new connections or on account of greater
electricity being available due to loss reduction. The costs included were the investment and
operating costs incurred by Umeme and the cost of additional power generation required to
supply to the additional demand. These costs were subtracted from the delivered benefits to
derive the net economic gains associated with the project.

                                                 Figure 6 Umeme EBITDA
                              UShs Bn                                               %
                        400                                                              25

                                                                                         20
                        300
                                                                                         15
                        200
                                                                                         10
                        100
                                                                                         5

                          0                                                              0
                                2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
                                                               Forecasted
                                                   Amount      Margin (%)
                        Source: Umeme 2013 Annual Report and Burbidge Capital



66.    Even using very conservative valuation of benefits and costs, the project is found to have
been economically viable with an NPR of US$ 108 million and economic rate of return (EIRR)
of 21%. The table below shows the main assumptions and results for the IRR and NPV.

     Assumptions
                                                                                         0.17
     Average price of electricity                                                            *   $/kWh
                                                                                                 kWh/mont
     Average Consumption                                                                 315*        h
     Generation cost of electricity                                                      0.12    $/kWh
     Discount Rate                                                                       12      Per cent
     Baseline Results
     EIRR                                                                                21%
     NPV (M US$)                                                                         108
Note: *Calculated as the weighted average across all consumer types – using 2012 consumption figures and 2014
 tariff structure.




                                                               18
3.4.   Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

 Rating: Satisfactory

67.     Based on sections 3.1-3.3, the overall outcome is rated as Satisfactory. The Project was
relevant to the Government’s National Development Strategy, and the last three Country
Assistance Strategies. The Project successfully met its development objective, has set up a
replicable and successful example of a Public-Private Partnership in the power distribution
sector, and was well justified based on reasonable economic and financial performance.

68.     The ICR team acknowledges the mismatch between the Satisfactory rating given to the
Overall Outcome in this ICR and the “Moderately Satisfactory” Development Outcome rating of
the ISRs from 2010 until the Project’s closing. The mismatch reflects the fact that the Task Team
used the ISR ratings as a tool to strengthen the ongoing sector dialog and bring into the GoU’s
attention Umeme’s sector issues. This approach helped to influence the Bank’s sector dialogue
and long term sustainability of the operation; a wider sense than the one foreseen by the rating
mechanism in the ISR template. In the absence of a “Risk to Development Outcome” rating
category in the ISR, Task Team expressed an opinion on the long-term sustainability of the
Concession, rather than just focusing on the achievement of immediate development objectives
of the contingent credit operation. The main issues causing the moderately satisfactory rating
relate to legal amendments to the Concession approved by ERA and changes to the funding
mechanism of the Escrow Account in the Security Package as they posed a threat to the long
term sustainability of the Concession (see Section 4 below). The Task Team used the ISR rating
tool to signal ongoing issues to Bank management and the Government of Uganda. The
proposed evaluation and rating assessment as provided in this ICR is more adequate to reflect the
full achievement of the Project’s objectives.

3.5.   Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

69.   No direct analysis provided under this operation due to its targeted nature and limited
scope

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening

70.     The component helped ERA to establish a track record as a regulatory agency that for the
most part applied tariff methodologies in a technical and timely manner. While Component E did
not include capacity building measures, it also supported indirectly a key institutional change in
Uganda. The activities supported by this project component facilitated the GoU’s buy-in of the
need of having the power sector on a commercial sound footing to operate and develop efficient.
ERA has recognized the need to have a profit making power sector while public entities such as
UETCL and UEDCL run their operations with a commercial view. Such commercial mind set in




                                                 19
the public entities should encourage further efficiency improvements and ameliorate potential
political interference in the sector.

(c)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

71.     In 2005, when Umeme took over the Ugandan distribution business, it was not certain
that Umeme would be a profit making enterprise with a diversified shareholder base and an
ambitious investment plan. Umeme listed its shares in the Uganda Securities Exchange (USE)
through an Initial Public Offering (IPO) in 2012. The IPO was declared overwhelmingly
successful, with over 35% over-subscription by investors in Uganda, East Africa, and
internationally. There were thousands of retail applications in total, which was a good indicator
that the IPO was well received by the general public in the three-week offer period. Umeme
listed 622 million shares on the markets with more than 6,000 Ugandans buying the firms stock
as well as African institutional investors, foreign equity funds, and venture capital funds.

72.     The IPO was the first step of a new development and investment phase for Umeme under
which it expects to substantially expand access and improve service quality. Funds raised from
the IPO were used to reduce the company's interest-bearing debt and enable Umeme to secure
additional commercial debt over the next few years to help finance its expansion strategy. The
IPO was voted the Deal of the Year 2012 at the African Banker Awards and was nominated for
the Africa Investor Awards.

73.     Umeme’s shares were cross-listed at the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) in 2013. The
strategic investor Actis, previously known as Globeleq, became a minority shareholder by
reducing its equity participation to 14% in May 2014. Given the progress made in building a
capable and motivated management team and workforce as well as a well-run distribution
company, Umeme did not expect that Actis’ reduced stake would impact its day-to-day
operations. Listing a utility company whose shares are actively traded in African stock
exchanges also contributed to the deepening of the financial market in the region. By May 2014,
the top shareholders of Umeme were Investec Asset management, Actis (previous known as
Globeleq), National Social Security Fund, Farallon Capital, Coronation Funds, Allan Gray
Africa Funds, IFC, Utilico Emerging Markets, Patrick Bitature, and Everest Capital.

74.     The Project also helped to set up a successful example of how to facilitate sustainable
private sector participation in power distribution business in Sub-Saharan Africa. Until now most
attempts to bring private sector efficiencies into power distribution business in the region have
proven to be difficult to sustain. Of the 33 contracts to bring the private sector into power
distribution business in Sub-Saharan African signed between 1990 and 2013, only 11 remained
operational by end of 2013. Of these, only two other contracts were for stand-alone distribution
services: Reho serving Rehoboth in Namibia and PN Energy Services serving Kayelitisha
Township in South Africa.




                                                 20
3.6.       Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

75.        There was no beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop undertaken by the project.

4.         Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Modest

76.      The cost-reflective tariff levels have naturally led to some controversies between Umeme
and the GoU as well as the general public. The GoU had the perception that electricity tariffs in
Uganda were significantly higher than those of neighbouring countries. Umeme challenged that
perception by showing tariff data on a cost reflective basis. That is excluding subsidies, which
continued to be significant in some neighbouring countries. By that measure, Uganda’s tariffs
were in line with those of its neighbours. Umeme also demonstrated that the share of the
distribution margin in the tariff revenue requirements decreased over the years; while other cost
drivers, like generation costs, fluctuated frequently. Despite these, Umeme was still facing some
criticism on tariff levels by the time this ICR was written. It will take time for Umeme and the
GoU to convince the public that the sector and the country are better-off with cost reflective
retail tariffs in the medium and long term.

77.      Uganda has good prospects to be able to reduce tariff levels in the medium to long term
without the need of subsidizing the sector. Umeme has agreed to lower distribution charges by
committing to significant improvements in loss reduction and collection rate within the next 5
years. Towards that aim, Umeme has developed a network refurbishing plan to tackle all issues
in a district by district approach to minimize power losses. Following the GoU’s request, Umeme
has also opted for installing only pre-paid meters from October 2014 onwards, thereby phasing
out post-paid billing systems 6. If those improvements are combined with a least cost investment
in generation, the overall cost of the power sector will diminish, and, therefore, the required
tariffs at cost reflective levels will also be lower.

78.     Umeme is well-positioned to ramp up its electrification efforts as the constraints that
prevented it from fully focusing on network expansion had been eliminated. Until 2012, Umeme
focused on developing an effective business plan to tackle all operational issues, and becoming a
credible operator with access to medium and long term finance. In addition, Umeme operated in
an environment of major power supply shortfalls so additions of new customers had to be
managed to deliver what the network could serve. After the power supply crisis ended, Umeme
announced plans to invest US$382 million in revamping its network and expanding it with
50,000 new connections a year. The funding for that investment was secured through an IPO and
commercial loans. During the ICR mission in May 2014, Umeme indicated its willingness and
ability to increase its customer base at a faster rate than currently planned if ERA include the
required capital expenditure in the tariff formula.

6
    Pre-paid metering had proved to be highly successful with Umeme’s customers.




                                                          21
79.    Successfully increasing the electrification rate, however, will also depend on timely
additions of new generation capacities to be contracted by UETCL. Such addition will be critical
in helping Umeme to further improve its brand and perceived service reliability. Another
generation crisis would be a major set-back for Umeme as experience shows. Despite major
improvement in grid reliability over the last couple of years, customers continue to perceive grid
power as unreliable and firms continue to indicate that the greatest threat to competitiveness was
the shortage of reliable power supply. The number of power outages in a typical month fell from
38.6 in 2003 to 6 in 2013 while the share of firms reporting electricity constraints as major or
very severe fell from 44.5% in 2003 to 24% in 2013. The reactions from Umeme’s consumers
show the sensitive environment in which Umeme operates and the need for a strong partnership
with the GoU and UETCL to avoid future power supply crises.

80.     Finally, it would be important that the GOU honours its contractual obligations by
reinstating the elements of the Security Package that it legally agreed to maintain for the life of
the Concession. GoU started to unilaterally and progressively undo the Security Package by the
time the IDA Guarantee expired, and the associated L/C Facility was closed. First, ERA
disallowed the lease rent from the 2012 tariff review. Then UEDCL didn’t replenish the balance
of the Escrow account even though it has been zero since October 2013. The GoU’s view that the
Uganda’s track record on power sector reform permits it to unilaterally dismantle the Security
Package is at the core of the politically and regulatory risks from which investors look to protect
themselves.

81.     The issues regarding additional generation capacity and GoU’ reinstating obligations,
however, do not compromise the development outcomes achieved under the Project. The
operational and financial improvement of Umeme was achieved through structural changes in the
way that power distribution services are managed in Uganda. The structural changes included
revamping business practices on customer management and network refurbishing, creating a
motivated workforce, and building a reliable network of local providers.

82.     Through its energy sector dialogue in Uganda, the Bank continues to discuss those
pending issues with the Concession’s stakeholders and aims to facilitate their resolution as well
as the resolution of any other issue that may emerge. The Bank also continues to support the
sustainability of what was achieved through this innovative contingent credit by supporting the
sector with investment operations in power generation and access expansion. Given the still
active involvement of IFC and MIGA in the Concession, it is also recommendable to envisage a
well-coordinated World Bank Group approach on the issues at hand to ensure that the
remarkable results of the Concession achieved throughout the years remain valid and sustainable
in the long term

5.     Assessment of the Guarantee in support of the Project
5.1.    Impact of the guarantee in mobilizing private sector financing.




                                                  22
83.    The fact that IDA support was a condition of effectiveness for the Concession showed
that Umeme would have not invested in Uganda’s distribution services without political and
regulatory risk cover. The impact of the guarantee on Umeme’s ability to mobilize private capital
can be broken down as follows:

       (i)    Umeme had the confidence to invest over US$65 million in the distribution
       network in the first five years of the Concession and US$224 million by the time the
       guarantee expired.

       (ii)   Umeme was able to raise financing for its investment program even during the
       power supply crisis. IFC provided a badly needed US$25 million loan to Umeme in 2009.

       (iii) Umeme was able to expand its funding sources by increasing its shareholder base
       through an IPO (see section 3.5.c.) and obtaining longer term debt financing. In 2013,
       Umeme secured a US$190 million (Ushs 485 billion) commercial loan to support its
       investment program. The commercial debt was the largest-private sector corporate
       financing in Uganda to that date and comprised of:

              •   A US$170 million term loan priced at LIBOR (London Interbank Offered
                  Rate) plus 5%, with IFC and Standard Chartered Bank each providing USD$70
                  million, and Stanbic Bank providing US$30 million; and
              •   A US$20 million revolving credit facility with Standard Chartered Bank
                  providing US$15 million and Stanbic Bank providing US$5 million.

5.2.   Role and value of the guarantee in addressing critical risks and improving the
overall sustainability of the transaction.

84.     IDA helped investors to make the Concession sustainable by underpinning its cash flow
through a regulatory risk guarantee. Thus, the guarantee improved the overall sustainability of
the Umeme Concession. The guarantee support also facilitated IDA’s ongoing involvement in
the sector, through regular supervision and mediation, at critical moments ensured the
sustainability of the distribution Concession (see section 6.1.b).

85.     The highly targeted nature of IDA support resulted in US$5.5 million of contingent
credit, supporting investments of US$224 million between 2005 and 2013 and facilitating
additional investment plans of US$382 million between 2014 and 2018. Those numbers imply
leverage ratios of over 40 times by 2013 and 110 times by 2018.

5.3.   Key issues or events that may arise in the future that could lead to a potential call on
the guarantee.

86. None. The guarantee expired in 2012.




                                                 23
6.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
6.1.   Bank Performance
(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

87.    IDA’s performance in ensuring quality at entry was satisfactory. Prior to this operation,
IDA undertook the preparatory work for supporting the power sector reform, including the
concessioning of the distribution business in Uganda. The IDA team focused on identifying and
guaranteeing the key issues that discouraged private investors to undertake the distribution
Concession in a context of the ongoing power sector reform in Uganda. The WBG support was
closely coordinated to achieve a complementary risk mitigation package. IDA, because of its
close involvement with the sector and its monitoring ability through regular supervision,
backstopped the policy and ongoing revenue-related risks critical to project sustainability. MIGA
mitigated the political risk for equity investment.

(b)     Quality of Supervision
Rating: Highly satisfactory

88.     IDA’s supervision was highly satisfactory. Sufficient budget and staff resources were
allocated, and the project was adequately supervised with the right skills mix. The project team
followed up the project implementation progress and results achievement through regular
missions, teleconferences with relevant entities, and with the support of staff based in Kampala.
There were also joint missions with MIGA, and IFC and close coordination to define a WBG
position when required.

89.    IDA support to Umeme was managed within the overall IDA engagement in the
Uganda’s power sector which also included support for expanding power generation and
ensuring financial sustainability of the sector. When the power supply crisis emerged, IDA
worked with GoU to reduce short-term power shortages and financial imbalances, and facilitate
orderly longer-run expansion of electricity service. The Power Sector Development Operation
(IDA-42970), which provided fiscal support, and Bujagali Private Power Generation Project
(Guarantee No. B0130-UG), which supported generation expansion, were the main IDA
interventions to attenuate the impact of the crisis. The IDA interventions in the sector
complemented each other and were designed to benefit from each other achievements.

90.    The IDA team provided timely support GoU to help overcome several crises, including:

       •      2006: By the end of the initial 18-months “trial” period, Umeme’s shareholders
               were ready to exercise their termination rights due to the power supply crisis.
               IDA strongly encouraged both parties to renegotiate the Concession, and
               extended its guarantee in support of the Concession restructuring. The




                                                 24
               Concession was amended to adjust it to the circumstances created by the power
               crisis. IDA undertook the corresponding due diligence of the proposed
               amendments, found them reasonable and provided its consent as required per the
               Guarantee Agreement. IDA also provided financial support to help Uganda to
               finance emergency power to mitigate power supply shortages.
       •      2008: Umeme and GoU entered into a dispute concerning the compliance by both
               parties with contractual obligations. While GoU acknowledged that it could have
               been more supportive of Umeme’s efforts to reduce non-technical losses, its
               perception was that Umeme’s management was not doing enough in accelerating
               its efforts in other areas. IDA, through its supervision and its honest broker role,
               monitored the situation and convinced both parties to agree on a detailed action
               plan with shared responsibilities. Those actions led to renewed efforts on both
               sides to resolve outstanding issues. Umeme also brought on board a new
               management team in early 2009.
       •      2009: A new Minister of Energy and some Parliamentarians tried to unilaterally
               terminate the Umeme Concession on allegations of non-performance. IDA joined
               forces with MIGA and IFC to prepare a report that showed the progress and
               situation of Uganda’s distribution network since the onset of the Concession. The
               highest level of GoU acknowledged that despite certain “mixed” performances,
               Umeme improved distribution services and a new Minister of Energy was
               appointed.
       •      2011/2012: There was a deadlock in the negotiations of the performance targets
               for the 2013-2018 regulatory period. IDA supported ERA and GoU on hiring an
               independent advisor to help ERA overcome its initial difficulties to engage in
               meaningful negotiations with Umeme. In addition, IDA in coordination with IFC
               and MIGA (though fully respecting potential conflict of interest situations)
               liaised between ERA and Umeme to help them resolve disagreements throughout
               the negotiations.

91.     In summary, the IDA risk mitigation support and related honest broker role as well as the
Bank’s overall strong engagement in Ugandan power sector through several operation and strong
policy dialogue, gave IDA the critical leverage for helping to resolve each crisis.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

92.    Based on IDA’s performance during the appraisal and supervision phases as discussed
above, the overall IDA Performance is rated as Satisfactory.

6.2.   Implementation Entity Performance
(a)    Implementation Entity Performance in implementing the project



                                                 25
Rating: Satisfactory:

93.     Umeme made limited progress on operational performance during the first four years of
the Concession, but since then it has improved significantly. Umeme built a strong local
management team and developed a good business process to reduce technical losses, improve
distribution network reliability, as well as enhance service quality and customer management in a
sustainable manner. It also showed the ability to raise the required funding to expand its
operations and the willingness and ability to invest in network expansion.

6.3.   Government Performance
(a)     Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

94.      The government through the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Energy generally
fulfilled its obligations and created the environment for the private concessionaire to operate
efficiency. When issues emerged, the corresponding government entity was, at the end, willing
to discuss and find a workable solution with the private concessionaires. However, since the
Contingent Credit expired, the government has showed less willingness in finding solutions to
outstanding issues such as government payment arrears and honouring the Security Package.

(b)    Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

95.     For most part, ERA demonstrated its competence in doing professional and technical
work on setting the tariffs. After the Contingent Credit expired, however, ERA has showed more
susceptible to the political pressures relating to tariff adjustments. Removing the lease payment
from the tariff methodology and modifying the growth factor has been perceived by Umeme as
politically motivated. At the time the ICR was written, it was unclear the course that these
disputes would take.

96.    Generally GoU fulfilled its obligation to maintain the Security Package created to deal
with arrears of GoU entities during the life of the guarantee. After the expiration of the
guarantee, however, it unilaterally started to dismantle the elements of the Security Package that
were agreed to maintain during the life of the Concession (Lease Fees and Escrow Account).

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory:

97.    Based on GoU and associated entities’ discussed above, the Overall Government
Performance is rated as Satisfactory.




                                                 26
7.    Lessons Learned

98.   There are a number of lessons learned from this Project:

      (i)     If properly structured, it is possible to successfully implement a private
      sector project that brings private capital, private sector efficiencies, and first rated
      investors into an underdeveloped power distribution subsector such as that of
      Uganda in 2004 and reap substantial economic benefits for the country and the
      sector. Given that GoU was undertaking a power sector reform and showed strong
      commitment to sector reform, the guarantee support focused on the remaining political
      and regulatory risks. The guarantee helped to underpin the cash flow of the Concession
      by backstopping critical risks. Such support gave investors the incentive to conclude the
      Concession and undertake investments much larger than initially envisioned. As a result,
      there had been substantial benefits for the sector and the country.

      (ii)    Loss reduction in chronically poorly managed utilities is very challenging
      and takes significant time and effort to tackle it, particularly in countries with
      limited capacity. In these countries, strategic investors have to focus on identifying the
      real status of the network, designing an effective overhauling plan, revamping the
      customer database, creating a motivated and well-trained workforce, and ensuring that
      there is an adequate network of local suppliers before being able to show sustainable
      performance improvements. It is also critical to set ambitious but realistic targets for
      strategic investors to perform. In this context, a transitional period to allow for creating
      reliable baselines for performance improvements —such as the 18-month initial period
      given to Umeme—is beneficial for then setting realistic targets that can create the right
      incentives to improve performance.

      (iii) PPP/Concessions are long-term arrangements that need flexibility and
      commitment from all involved parties to be able to adjust to unforeseen
      circumstances, remain in place, and being successful. The Government's long term
      commitment to sector reform made it possible for the Project and the Concession, to
      weather major challenges (e.g. power supply crisis). Government commitment to stay its
      course on sector reform ultimately led to the longer term benefits to the sector, once the
      power crisis was over. Long term commitment and competence of the private sector were
      a pre-requisite to develop the local workforce's capabilities at all levels. In addition a
      sound approach to sustained performance improvements and a solid financial
      performance were equally important attributes. Identifying private partners that have a
      long-term view and can weather significant challenges throughout the implementation
      phase are particularly attractive in such projects, which could help guide the criteria for
      procuring private sector concessionaires in future. The Bank's involvement in such an
      operation is not limited to the provision of a financial instrument (guarantee), but it also
      offers the Bank's convening power, which can make a tangible difference during a crisis.



                                                27
(iv)    There is a fine balance to be struck between reducing the perceived risks for
the private sector and creating the incentives to tackle sector issues. In the case of
Uganda, the risk of non-payment by GoU’s entities illustrates the case. The historic poor
payment record was perceived as a risk that needed to be fully mitigated at the time the
Concession was granted. While that risk is still relevant for some public entities (such as
security forces, police, and prisons), it may no longer be the case of other public entities.
GoU’s view is that Umeme did not do all that it could to minimize the arrears of GoU’s
entities because it could offset GoU’s arrears with the resources from the Security
Package. Umeme always contested this view by GoU as it should be GoU’s
responsibility to ensure that Government entities pay their bills.

(v)     Low income countries may need donor funding to facilitate faster increase in
access than private financing can bring. In those countries, expanding access through
private financing alone is usually constrained by affordability issues due to higher cost of
private financing. Combining private sector efficiencies in network rollout and operation
with the lower cost of donor financing could accelerate access expansion.

(vi)    The commercial mindset of the public entities is critical to ensure the long-
term sustainability of the sector performance improvement. Such commercial
mindset was instilled in Ugandan public entities through the GoU’s long-term
commitment with the sector reform. To the extent that such commercial mindset is
absent in another operation, there is value in providing capacity building support to help
develop a commercial attitude when engaging with the private sector.

(vii) Projects supporting Public Private Partnerships in power distribution
required active supervision to ensure timely resolution of emerging issues before
they start to negatively affect the project. Continued engagement by the Bank was
critical for the success of Uganda’s distribution Concession. By virtue of the IDA
guarantee, on-going supervision helped the Bank team to play an effective honest broker
role at key moments (contract amendment, disputes over performance and tariff review)
which prevented disputes from escalating and facilitated mutually agreed resolutions. In
the case of guarantees, projects should allow for adequate monitoring and supervision
during the life of the guarantee to ensure risks covered are appropriately managed.

(viii) Designing the IDA support as a credit restructuring was innovative, cost-
effective, and, more importantly, responsive to GoU’s needs. By adding the guarantee
support as a restructuring in an almost complete operation that had the same PDO and
outcome but for a broader set of companies, the IDA team was able to expedite the
approval of the guarantee support and deliver the support needed by GoU in a timely
manner. Under the Privatization Agreements for its power distribution services, GoU had
nine months to put in place an IDA support to backstop its obligations. Such approach
also reduced the transaction cost of a small operation (US$5.5 million).




                                           28
       (ix)    The innovative approach, however, became a burden during supervision as
       the Bank’s processes and systems were not prepared to handle the innovative
       aspects of it. The nature of the operation (a contingent credit with no planned
       disbursement, if successful and with an end date defined based on reaching certain
       market conditions) implied that the project team had to (i) work with processes and
       systems that were unable to adequately reflect the operation’s performance and status;
       and, (ii) periodically write ad-hoc reports to explain that the operation was not
       underperforming.


8.     Comments on Issues               Raised     by    Implementation        Entity/Implementing
       Agencies/Partners
(a)    Implementation Entity

99.    Umeme Ltd, the project sponsor in its own ICR has raised several issues:

       (i)      There is a risk of insufficient power supply. The challenge in the sector is that demand
       for electricity has to be matched with power generation growth. It is important that Government
       plans to increase power generation, involving construction of new power hydro plants, like
       Karuma, are kept on track.

       (ii)    The Escrow Account is currently not funded. The lease payments to UEDCL,
       which were formerly used to fund the Escrow Account from time to time, have been
       excluded from the retail tariff by ERA. Notwithstanding the removal of the lease
       payments from the tariff, UEDCL is nevertheless obliged to fund the Escrow Account to
       the required minimum balance, in accordance with UEDCL’s obligations under the Lease
       and Assignment Agreement.

       (iii) The Electricity Regulatory Authority (ERA) passed and implemented
       Amendments No. 2 (disallowing rapid depreciation) and No.4 (adjusting the growth
       factor in the tariff methodology) to the Umeme Electricity Supply Licence. The Legality
       of these amendments has been challenged by Umeme through an appeal filed with the
       Electricity Dispute Tribunal (EDT), which is awaiting resolution.

       (iv)      The Parliamentary Ad-hoc Committee on Energy established in July 2011 undertook a
       review of Umeme’s activities and tabled its final report for parliamentary debate in March 2013.
       The report made a number of recommendations including termination of the Company’s
       concession. Umeme disputed the Committee’s findings and the Government of Uganda is not
       bound by the Parliamentary resolutions. Government has reassured Umeme that it is fully
       committed to encouraging private sector investment in Uganda and will be highly unlikely to
       initiate any actions that deter investment in Uganda’s energy sector.

100.   The Bank shares Umeme’s concerns and has duly noted them in the Assessment of Risk




                                                    29
to Development Outcome (section 4). The Bank also continues the dialogue on these issues with
Government as part of its sector dialogue.

(a)    Government/Implementing Agencies:

101. The GoU in its inputs has expressed appreciation for the success achieved by Umeme and
the role played by the IDA and its Contingent Credit.

(b)    Lenders, Co-financiers and/or Co-Guarantors: Lender’s comment not received.

(c)    Other partners and stakeholders

102.   None




                                               30
                          Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing


Financing plan (US$) and IDA Contingent Credit

        Source                Local                 Foreign              Total
Borrower              0                     0                    0
Umeme                                       65                   65
International                               (5.5)                (5.5)
Development
Association
(Contingent Credit)
Total                 0                     65                   65




                                            31
                               Annex 2: Outputs by Component

103. As indicated as section 1.5, the Project had one component: A Security Package to
compensate Umeme for losses caused by defined political and regulatory risks. This annex
provides a detailed description of the Security Package and the IDA backed risks.

104. Under the Privatization Agreements, the GoU provided a Security Package consisting of
the Escrow Account and the L/C Facility to be in place for seven years following the
privatization. The Security Package was designed to provide compensation to Umeme for any
loss of revenues resulting from non-compliance of certain UEDCL/GoU undertakings specified
in the Privatization Agreements. Any loss of revenues would be recovered by UMEME in the
following order: (a) a rent offset; (b) a draw-down from the Escrow Account; and (c) a draw-
down from the L/C Facility. In addition to providing funds for Umeme’s loss of revenue, the
Escrow Account was available to pay any Buy Out Amounts due to Umeme which were not paid
by the GoU. The L/C Facility was only accessible for up to US$2.5 million to cover a Buy Out
Amount during the initial eighteen month period if termination resulted from a breach of the
Privatization Agreements by the GOU and its entities.

105. Escrow Account: UEDCL deposited an initial US$2.5 million in the Escrow Account at
the Transfer Date which was supplemented by monthly deposits of rent payable by UMEME,
estimated at the equivalent of US$1.35 million. Any time the amounts in deposit in the Escrow
Account plus the balance in the L/C Facility exceeded the “Required Amount” (an amount equal
to US$5 million or its equivalent at the Transfer Date, increasing to US$8 million 12 months
after the Transfer Date and rising to a cap of US$20 million or its equivalent), then any surplus
became payable to UEDCL each month by the Escrow Agent. The Escrow Account was agreed
to be in operation for the duration of the Concession.

106. IDA Backed L/C Facility: To supplement the cash deposit in the Escrow Account,
UEDCL was required to establish a Standby Letter of Credit for an initial amount of US$2.5
million at the Transfer Date, increasing to US$5 million at the first anniversary thereof, and then
remaining at that amount (unless reduced by a drawing which is not replenished). The L/C was
required to be in effect for seven years following the privatization. Because of certain Ugandan
regulatory requirements, the initial term of the L/C was three years to be renewed twice for two
year periods for the balance of the seven year term. In the event the L/C was not renewed or
replaced beyond its initial term, such that the L/C ceases to be in effect for the full seven year
period, the GOU has agreed that UMEME could draw from the Credit, for deposit into the
Escrow Account, an amount equal to the amount that would have been available for draw under
the L/C prior to its expiration.

107. UMEME was entitled to draw any revenue shortfall amounts from the L/C upon the
occurrence of the “IDA-Backed Events” covering loss of revenues, if there were insufficient
funds in the Escrow Account to satisfy the amounts claimed after rent offset. As part of the L/C



                                                  32
arrangements, the L/C issuing bank entered into a L/C Reimbursement and Credit Agreement
with UEDCL. Under this agreement, UEDCL agreed to repay the L/C issuing bank the amounts
drawn, plus accrued interest, within a period of up to 12 months (the L/C Repayment Period).
First, however, the L/C was to be replenished during the L/C Repayment Period through a claw-
back from rent payments deposited in the Escrow Account by UMEME. Alternatively, the GOU
or UEDCL could choose to replenish the L/C from its own resources. If by the end of the L/C
Repayment Period, however, the amount of the drawing was still outstanding, then UEDCL
would be obligated to make the necessary repayment to the L/C issuing bank, in US dollars, to
the designated account stipulated in the Reimbursement and Credit Agreement. Repayment
would normally be required to be made to the L/C issuing bank’s account in Uganda. If because
of Ugandan restrictions, UEDCL were unable to make payments in US dollars to such account,
or UEDCL were unable to transfer payments made to such account outside Uganda, UEDCL was
required to make payment to the designated account of the L/C issuing bank outside of Uganda.
Following a repayment from any of the above sources, the L/C would be reinstated by the
amount of the repayments.

108. In the event UEDCL failed to make the required repayment by the end of the L/C
Repayment Period, the L/C issuing bank would be entitled to claim from IDA the repayment of
the due amounts plus accrued interest. Following a submission of a valid claim to IDA for
payment, IDA would repay the L/C issuing bank through a disbursement from Credit 3411-UG
up to an amount not exceeding US$5.5 million. Following a repayment by IDA to the L/C
issuing bank, on behalf of UEDCL, neither the L/C nor the amount of IDA’s support would be
reinstated for such amounts. The figure on the next page shows how the Escrow and IDA
backed L/C worked to compensated Umeme if the covered risks materialize.




                                               33
                                 UMEME Escrow and IDA-Backed L/C Security Structure



                                                           IDA                              GOU



                                                                     LC
                                                                                       LC
                                                   L/C Issuing Bank
                                 LC                                                          Repaym
                                                                                             ent
                       Rent
                                                                   LC draw

                UMEME           Ren                Escrow Account                           UEDCL
                                                                             Escrow
                                  Escrow                                        over

    1
        In case Escrow Account balance is higher than required.




Risks Underpinned by the Security Package

109. Undertakings under the Privatization Agreements, seven events in the UEDCL/GOU
contractual gave UMEME the right to offset rent payments and draw from the Escrow Account
to compensate revenue losses and satisfy GOU’s obligation for the Buy Out Amount in the event
of termination of the Concession. Of these events, only the first three ((a ), (b) and (c) below)
were “IDA-backed Events” that entitled UMEME to access the IDA-backed L/C Facility
following a rent offset and a draw from the Escrow Account.

         (i)    Failure by the ERA to approve tariff adjustments according to the pre-agreed
         Tariff Methodology set forth in the Distribution and Supply License.

         (ii)      Non-payment by GOU entities of their Electricity Bills.

         (iii) Early Termination of the Concession by UMEME resulting from a breach of the
         Privatization Agreements by GOU and its entities during the initial 18 month period. In
         this case, UMEME would be entitled to receive compensation of US$2.5 million (the
         “Early Termination Amount”) if other funds available to UMEME (cash and unutilized
         investment funds in the Company Escrow Account) were insufficient to recover the full
         Early Termination Amount.

         (iv)  Early Termination of the Concession by UMEME for reasons relating to the
         company, within the initial eighteen month period, which would entitle UMEME to a
         compensation of US$2.5 million for the initial investment of US$5 million.




                                                              34
       (v)   Refunds made by UMEME of Connection Fee and Security Deposits provided by
       customers of UEDCL prior to the Transfer Date.

       (vi)   Indemnification obligations to third parties and property damage resulting from
       the condition of the Distribution System, within the first eighteen months of the Transfer
       Date.

       (vii) Termination of the Concession due to UEDCL or GOU Events of Default, and
       Political or Other Force Majeure Events.

Description of the “IDA-backed” Risks

The “IDA-backed Events” were.

110. Non-Compliance by ERA of the Regulatory Framework: This covered the failure of the
ERA to adjust retail tariffs in accordance with the Distribution and Supply Licenses within 45
days of a legitimate claim from UMEME, in accordance with the pre-agreed Tariff Methodology
(contained in Annex A of the Supply License), which resulted in a corresponding loss of revenue
to UMEME, including interest on any overdue amounts. Under the Licenses, UMEME would be
required to make an annual tariff submission to the ERA at least 30 days prior to the
effectiveness of the tariff. Tariffs might be adjusted quarterly on an automatic basis to reflect
changes in bulk tariff supply costs, inflation and exchange rate movements.

111. The retail tariff, as calculated in accordance with the agreed Tariff Methodology
consisted of two elements: (a) the Power Supply Price determined on a quarterly basis for each
twelve month period beginning on the Transfer Date; and (b) the Distribution Price determined
annually for each Tariff Year. The Distribution Price consisted of the following components:
(a) operation and maintenance costs which will be fixed at the bid cost plus indexation for
inflation; (b) the Return on Investment fixed in accordance with the bid proposal; and (c) Lease
Rent payable to UEDCL. The US dollar components of the Distribution Price were identified in
the Distribution License and were provided in the tariff at prevailing USh/US$ exchange rates.
Since the components in the tariff were generally pre-determined in terms of either being fixed
or outlined in a contract such as the Lease and Assignment and Power Sales Agreements, the
probability of risk of disputes on interpretation to appear fairly limited. In the event that
interpretation disputes between UMEME and the ERA, the License and Privatization
Agreements provided for a dispute resolution mechanism through recourse to an expert’s
determination on an expedited basis. If either party were to disagree with the expert’s
determination, it could resort to binding arbitration. The GOU and UEDCL recognize that if
UMEME draws on the L/C Facility for an IDA-backed Event, pending a dispute, UEDCL was
not be relieved of its obligation under the L/C Reimbursement and Credit Agreement to repay
the L/C issuing bank after the 12-month Repayment Period. If arbitration was ongoing at the end
of that period and an L/C draw should result in a claim to IDA, any disbursements under the




                                                 35
Credit will have remained a GOU obligation even should a later arbitral award be issued in favor
of UEDCL/GOU. In this case, UEDCL/GOU’s recourse would be to seek reimbursement from
UMEME under its contractual obligations if the Concession is continuing, through refunds into
the Escrow Account; and under the award and at law if the Privatization Agreements were
terminated and an improper Buy Out Amount (or early Termination Amount) had been paid prior
to the award having been rendered.

112. Non-Payment by GOU Entities of Electricity Bills: This dealt with the failure of
Government entities to pay their electricity bills within 60 days from the due date, which results
in a loss of revenue for UMEME including interest on the overdue amounts. In the event that the
relevant GOU entity made a payment of the due amounts following a drawing of the amounts by
UMEME from the Escrow Account or L/C Facility, UMEME had to repay all such amounts into
the Escrow Account plus interest equivalent to the prevailing LIBOR rate plus 3 percent. The
amounts deposited in the Escrow Account had first to be applied first to replenish the L/C
Facility to the extent it had been drawn.

113. The largest single UMEME customer at the time the concession was granted was the
Government and its entities, whose monthly electricity bills of around US$800,000 accounted for
about 10% of sector revenues. Assuming that no payments were received from the Government
and its entities, such monthly electricity bills would be offset by the monthly rental payments and
the Bulk Supply Tariff payments, before any recourse to the security package could be made.

114. Payment of Early Termination Amount Resulting from a Breach of the Privatization
Agreements by GOU and its Entities: UMEME was entitled to access the L/C Facility in the
event of a termination within the initial eighteen months of the Concession for a breach of the
undertakings provided by the GOU, UEDCL, or UETCL, under the Privatization Agreements.
For this event, the Early Termination Amount was capped at US$2.5 million.

115. Failure of L/C Facility to Remain in Effect for Seven Years after Privatization because of
Non-Renewal or Inability to Replace: Under Uganda regulations, the maximum initial term of
the L/C Facility could exceed three years. Hence, there was a risk (although low) that the L/C
Facility might not be renewed or be capable of being replaced through a substitute bank up to the
full seven year period. If this risk were to materialize, UMEME was able to draw directly under
the IDA Credit in an amount equal to the amount available under the L/C Facility, immediately
prior to its expiration, for the purpose of placing such amounts in the Escrow Account.




                                                  36
                         Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis

116. The economic analysis of the project follows a standard cost-benefit approach. The
stream of costs and benefits are compared to determine the net economic value in present value
terms and the internal rate of return. The primary beneficiaries are the customers in Umeme’s
area of operation. Households gain from electricity in the form of increased productivity, the
lengthening of working/studying hours, reduced ill health, and increased connectivity (cell
phone, TV and radio) and entertainment. Commercial and industrial entities gain from electricity
though better lighting, storage and productivity enhancing electrification of processes.

117. The project component being analyzed provides a risk guarantee to Umeme, to enable it
to raise capital to invest in improved operations and maintenance targeted towards reducing
energy losses and enhancing connection capacity. The main benefits delivered by the project are
thus in the form of reduction in electricity losses and greater connection of new households by
Umeme. The ultimate benefits thus derive from end-user (household, commercial or industrial)
consumption on account of new connections or on account of greater electricity being available
due to a reduction in losses. The latter implies that economic benefit will only derive from a
reduction in technical losses and not commercial loss reduction which is merely a transfer of
resources.

118. The costs included are the investment and operating costs incurred by Umeme and the
cost of additional power generation required to supply to the excess demand. These costs are
subtracted from the delivered benefits to derive the net economic gains associated with the
project.

119. The benefit from reduced technical losses is derived from the additional electricity
available in the system which is ultimately consumed by the customers. The consumed electricity
is valued at the consumption-weighted average of the price paid by Umeme customers (domestic,
commercial and industrial). The underlying assumption is that the customer mix has remained
the same through the period. Valuing energy consumed at the marginal tariff paid by customers
can be regarded a lower bound for the economic benefits delivered to customers and thus a
conservative valuation of benefits.




                                                37
            45.0
            40.0
            35.0
            30.0
            25.0
                                                                                       Technical losses
            20.0
                                                                                       Energy Losses
            15.0
            10.0
             5.0
             0.0
                2000          2005          2010          2015          2020


Note: The diagram shows that energy losses fell rapidly and are projected to do so in the medium-term. Technical
losses have fallen at a much slower rate and are expected to remain stable around 17 percent in the near future. Thus
implying that most of the loss reduction is on account of reduced commercial losses.

120. The benefit from additional connections, similarly, is valued at the consumption-
weighted average tariff. The assumed consumption per customer is the average consumption
across all Umeme customers in 2012.

121. Even using very conservative valuation of benefits and costs, the project is found to have
been economically viable with an NPR of US$ 108M and economic rate of return (EIRR) of 21
percent.

The table below shows the main assumptions and results for the IRR and NPV.

 Assumptions
 Average price of electricity                                                                 0.17*          $/kWh
 Average Consumption                                                                          315*           kWh/month
 Generation cost of electricity                                                               0.12           $/kWh
 Discount Rate                                                                                12             Per cent
 Baseline Results
 EIRR                                                                                         21%
 NPV (M US$)                                                                                  108
Note: *Calculated as the weighted average across all consumer types – using 2012 consumption figures and 2014
    tariff structure.




                                                           38
Annex 4: Bank Guarantee and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


  (a)     Task Team members

        Names                               Title
                                Lending
Karen Rasmussen                             Co-TTL
Lucy M. Fye                                 Co-TTL
Farida Mazhar                               Lead Financial Specialist
Pascal Tegwa                                Sr. Procurement Specialist
Patrick Piker Umah Tete                     Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Serigne Omar Fye                            Sr. Environmental Specialist
Suman Babbar                                Consultant
Atsuko Okubo                                Counsel
Susan Maslen                                Counsel
                              Supervision
Robert Schlotterer                          TTL
Suman Babbar                                Consultant
Gulam H. Dhalla                             Consultant
Ju-Sung Park                                Financial Analyst
Paul Baringanire                            Power Engineer
Somin Mukherji                              Senior Energy Specialist
Farida Mazhar                               Lead Financial Officer
Janine A. Speakman                          Operation Analyst
Teuta Kacaniku                              Consultant




                                    39
     (b)     Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)

                                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
           Stage of Project Cycle                 No.    of   Staff         US$ Thousands
                                                  Weeks                     (including
                                                                           travel       and
                                                                           consultant costs)
           Lending
           FY2004                                  15                                   160,610*

           FY2005                                  17                                   171,558*

           TOTAL:
           Supervision/ICR
           FY2006                                  23                                  144,380*
           FY2007                                  13                                    32,587
           FY2008                                  6                                     29,730
           FY2009                                  8                                     22,552
           FY2010                                  10                                    43,085
           FY2011                                  7                                     43,888
           FY2012                                  5                                     45,384
           FY2013                                  3                                     31,811
           TOTAL                                                                        725,586
* Data include budget spent on the four other components of the Privatization and Utility Sector Reform Project
(P050439 and Credit 3411-UG).




                                                      40
                      Annex 5: List of Supporting Documents


1. IFC (2009) Umeme Limited Project No. 25788 The Republic of Uganda

2. Umeme (2012) Initial Public Offering Prospectus, Incorporates in the Republic of
   Uganda

3. Electricity Regulatory Authority (2012) Amendments of Umeme Ltd License No. 48 for
   the supply of electricity Amendments 2 and 3.

4. Electricity Regulatory Authority (2009) Measures to Reduce the Electricity Tariffs in
   Uganda Electricty Sector. Mimeo.

5. Electricity Regulatory Authority (2011) Uganda Study on Distribution System Losses
   and Collection Rates by Umeme Ltd. Final Report. 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013.

6. Electricity Regulatory Authority (2012 and 2013) Correspondence of Amendments of
   Umeme Ltd License No. 48 for the supply of electricity Amendments 2 and 3.

7. Umeme Ltd Correspondence of Amendments of Umeme Ltd License No. 48 for the
   supply of electricity Amendments 2 and 3 from 2011 to 2013.

8. Electricity Regulatory Authority Correspondence of Amendments of Umeme Ltd License
   No. 48 for the supply of electricity Amendments 2 and 3 from 2011 to 2013.

9. IDA, Aide Memoires of October 2007, February 2008, March 2009, November 2009,
   April 2010, December 2012, and May 2014.

10. IDA, Implementation Status Reports of July 2007, December 2007, July 2008, December
    2008, April 2009, December 2009, April 2010, December 2010, November 2011, May
    2012, February 2013, and August 2013

11. Umeme Ltd Annual Reports 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and Interim Report 2014 first half.

12. Umeme Project Agreements.

13. IDA (2006) First Amendment to Support to Umeme Ltd including related legal
    agreements.

14. IDA (2007) Program Document for US$300 million Power Sector Development
    Operation, Report No: 36644-UG.

15. IDA (2012) Implementation Completion Report on a US$300 million Power Sector
    Development Operation, Report No: ICR2159




                                           41
16. IDA and IFC (2000) Country Assistance Strategy of The World Bank Group for the
    Republic of Uganda.

17. IDA (2004) Memorandum and Recommendation of the President on the proposed
    amendments to the legal agreements of the Privatization and Utility Sector Reform
    Project (Credit 3411-UG) in the Republic of Uganda.

18. IDA (2000) Project Appraisal Document of a Proposed Credit in the amount of US$48.5
    million to the Republic of Uganda for a Privatization and Utility Sector Reform Project.
    Report No: 20016-UG

19. IDA (2009) Implementation Completion Report on US$62million Fourth Power Project,
    Report No: ICR0000760.

20. IDA (2006) Implementation Completion Report on a Credit in the amount of US$48.5
    million to the Republic of Uganda for a Privatization and Utility Sector Reform Project.
    Report No: 000041-UG.

21. IDA (2001) Project Appraisal Document of a Proposed Credit in the amount of US$62
    million for Fourth Power Project, Report No: 22318-UG.


22. IDA (2002) Implementation Completion Report on US$125 million Third Power Project,
    Report No: 24406.




                                            42
Map


Umeme footprints in 2009 and 2014




                                    43
