Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1463-Al
DECEMBER 29, 1989
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Before June 14, 1985 - Peso ($a)
Since June 14, 1985 - Austral (A) - Sa 1,0f0
Mdrket Rates
End of     1976         US$1      =       $a   277
1977        US$1              $a   599
1978        US$1              Sa 1,007
1980        US$1              $ Sa 1,996
1982        US$1              $ Sa &.85     new pesos
(1 new=10,000 old)
a   "      1984        US$1              $ ae 178.24
;Hay)      1985        US$1               $ Sa 593.85          6
(June)     1985        US1                A 0.80005   Australes
1986        US$1               A 1.2570
1987        US$1       a       A 3.7500
(July)     1988         US$1      -       A10.7400          a
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AUSTRAL        Argentina Unit of Currency since June 14, 1985
BANADE         Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (National Development Bank)
DFC            Development Finance Company
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FRR            Financial Rate of Returns
IFC            International Finance Corporation
LIBOR          London Interbank Offered Rate
SIGEP          Sindicatura General de Empresas Publicas, an entity auditing
public enterprises.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. DC 20433
USA
Office of DQvecGenetal
Ope.,tm !vakuatim
Decembar 29, 1989
l4EMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Argentina Indu3trial Credit
Project (Loan 1463-AR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Argentina Industrial Credit Pro1ect (Loan 1463-AR)"
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perrormance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Pink authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1461-AR
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ........       ......                           ............ ^,ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY.............................   . *    .... ,   .iii-v
PART IS  Main FindinRs and Lessons Learned by the Bank
A.  Project Identity .............. #.4..  ......... . ............. 1
B.   Backrunk....       g....       r    ou...n d*4.........      1
C.   Project Objectives and Description         ... .             2
D.   Project Design and Organization.            .    .           3
E. Project Implementation. . . .    5
F.   Project Results ....................,.. ............   7
G. Bank Performance                . . . ..........  a
H.   Borrower Performance .. .................................  10
I.  Project Relationship .     .     .................................  12
J.   Project Documentation and Data ........................ .   12
PART III: Basic Data
1.   Related Bank Loans .     .    .................................    13
2.   Project Timetable       .      ........................  14
3.  Loan Disbursements .       . .................................    15
ANNEXES:
1.  BANADE:  Subproject Profile ................................ .  16
2.   BANWDE:  Outstanding Arrears Under Loan 1463-AR    .....  18
3.   BANADE:  Subprojects Financed Under Loan 1463-AR ............      19
4.   BANADE:  Comparative Balance Sheet, December 31, 1979-87 ....  29
5.   BANADE:  Income Statements, 1979-1987 .......................  30
6.   BANADE:  Financial Rati,s, 1979-1987                     ..   31
7.   BANADE:  Personnel Employed in 1978-1988 .....   .........       32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1463-AR
PREFACE
This project completion report (PCR) describes and assesses the
design, implementation, and impact of a US$100 million World Bank loan
(Loan 1463-AR) extended in 1977 to the National Development Bank of
Argentina (BAMADE) for relending to support modernization and expansion of
manufacturing enterprises. BANADE, a public institution, had become a
channel for subsidized funds to state-owned or supported enterprises, and
was recapitalized and reorganized during project preparation with the
expectation of becoming an autonomous development bark.
The Bank loan, approved June 16, 1977, became effective November
28, 1977. At the outset BANADE experienced initial implementation delays
and suffered from a deteriorating investment climate caused by adverse
macroeconomic conditions. As a result, it took nearly five years to get
the loan close to commitment, with final closing on October 25, 1985, some
eight years after effectiveness. At the time BAN9DE was still a weak,
undercapitalized institution and underwent further reorganization.
After this loan, the Bank made two subsequent loans with BANADE as the
financial intermediary: the Second Industrial Credit Project (Loan
2063-AR), approved in December 1982, which had design and objectives
similar to the first one; and the Small and Medium Industries Project (Loan
2793-AR), approved in April 1987, which was an Apex operation using BANADE
as the second-tier bank. This PCR is thus the beginning of an in-depth _
evaluation of a relationship of more than a decade between the Bank and
BANADE involving three consecutive loans.
This PCR has been prepared 12 years after loan approval and about
seven years after the loan was essentially committed. In the meantime, the
Second Industrial Credit Project was committed, but because of delays in
some subproject disbursements, the implementation period had to be
extended.  At the time the PCK normally would have been prepared, the
decision was made to wait and combine it with the PCR of the Second
Industrial Credit Project. This decision was not well thought through,
because it postponed a thorough discussion of the first loan that would
have alerted the Bank to the serious problems within BANADE. A further
delay in preparing this PCR was caused by BANADE's contention that it was
not possible to retrieve information on subloans granted under this
operation. Only after forceful intervention by Bank management did BANADE
produce the needed information. The preparation of this PCR was carried
out over an extended period because time was needed to address BANADE's
problems.



- ii -
This PCR was prepared by the Trade, Finance and Industry Division
of Country Department IV of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office. This PCR was overdue by three years. Since many Borrower
representatives involved in this project had retired or moved to new
assignments, it was difficult for the Borrower to complete Part II.
Therefore, this PCR consists only of Part I and Part III.
Following standard OED procedures, copies of the draft P_R were
sent to the Government  and  the  Borrower.   No comments were, however,
received.



- iii -
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1463-AR
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.       This US$100 million loan to the National Development Bank (BANADE)
had the following objectives: (i) to increase the overall efficiency of the
industrial sector by helping to finance projects with the greatest
potentiel for exports and import substitution; (ii) to support the
implementation of reforms instituted by BANADE's new management aimed at
enablit'g it to fulfill its role as a major provider of term-lending to
industry; (iii) to provide BANADE with technical assistance to improve the
quality of its lending; and (iv) to serve as a catalyst for the
mobilization of external funds through cofinancing.
Implementation and Results
2.       Credit Component.  The two most important deviations from original
expectations were:  (i) the slower than expected pace of loan funds use. ,o
complete the project, the Bank had to extend the final commitment date five
times and the closing date three times. Two factors account for the slow
use of loan proceeds: the decline in industrial investment in 1977-82
(para. 6); and BANADE's continued slow appraisal procedures (para. 36)
that discouraged borrowers, even though alternative funds were more
expensive and of shorter maturities; and (ii) the lower than expected use _
of funds for project as opposed to equipment financing. The loan had been
desigr.ed for project financing; however, to facilitate loan processing, the
Bank agreed in mid-1980 to permit finance of equipment purchases for
replacement under simplified appraisal procedures (para. 21) not requiring
ERR calculation for subloans of up to US$2 million and FRR for subloans
below US$100 thousand or for small firms. At the end, the loan financed
only 19 new subprojects amounting to 45Z of loan proceeds, while the major
share was used for equipment financing. Most of the equipment was for
replacement and prodvction for the domestic market; therefore, the loan did
not generate much new employment nor expand exports. It is difficult to
assess the subprojects' contribution to improvements in the borrowers'
efficiency, because under the simplified appraisal procedures for equipment
financing BANADE did not have to calculate ERRs. This loan provided an
implicit subsidy to its beneficiaries after 1978. when the onlending rates
under the loan lagged substantially both LIBOR and domestic interest rates.
3.       Under the loan BANADE financed a total of 223 subprojects, 77 of
which are still in BANADE's portfolio; the others have been fully repaid.
Eight subloans, representing 15? of all subloans granted, in value, show
payment problems, although all of the beneficiaries are still in business
(Annex 2). BANADE has initiated legal action against one subborrower and



- iv -
is in the process of negotiating new repayment arrangements with the
others. The collection record under the Bank loan has been better than the
average of BANADE's loans financed from other sources, probably as a result
of more rigorous preparation and evaluation procedures. The rest of the
portfolio generally relied on Government guarantees (para. 25).
4.       Institution Buildinx. The adoption of a new Statement of Policy
and a new Charter of Incorporation before the signature of the Loan
Agreement constituted the cornerstone of efforts to transform BANADE into
an efficient and financially sound institution. Subsequently, BANADE's
management did not fully adhere to the principles established in these two
legal documents. In the absence of a follow up program to assess the
outcome of the organizational measures taken up-front, Bank supervision
missions did not focus on continued management and organizational
shortcomings (para. 22).
5.       Cofinancing.  BANADE did not blend the funds of the US$100 million
cofinancing loan with the Bank's funds, as originally envisaged. The
cofinancing loan was disbursed quickly through indexed peso rather than
dollar denominated subloans. The Bank dtd not supervise cofinancing
subloans because they were disbursed independently of the Bank loan. The
results of the cofinancing loan cannot be assessed because there is no
information on the types of investments financed with this loan. For
BANADE, however, the loan became increasingly expensive as LIBOR rates
soared and the Government finally adopted a policy of devaluation. When
BANADE stopped servicing this loan, it added to the Government's external
debt (para. 23).
6.       Technical Assistance.  Only US$40,000 of the US$250,000 technical
assistance component, provided for staff training, was disbursed. Most of
the staff training programs carried out by BANADE were financed from
BANADE's own funds. The Bank, however, contributed directly to training
BANADE's staff in appraisal methods. BANADE's training program, financed
with its own resources, was considered acceptable by supervision missions.
Lessons Learned
7.       The loan had intrinsic weaknesses in its design.  First, the
institutional improvements were limited to the approval of BANADE's Charter
of Incorporation and Statement of Policy without any follow-up program to
address the efficiency of BANADE's assets, liabilities and operations
management. The improved legal foundation, intended to safeguard BANADE's
operational autonomy and financial soundness, neither prevented BANADE
from bailing out ailing public and private enterprises nor from conducting
business as usual inspite of the financial crisis starting in 1981.
Second, no comprehensive set of financial performance targets were
established to monitor BANADE's financial performance, including its
liquidity situation, in addition to the debt/equity covenant.  Third, there
were no legal covenants for the use of the cofinancing loan and thus no
operational link to the Bank loan. Furthermore, in hindsight and as a
matter of judgement, the appraisal mission was overly optimistic



in its assessment of the investment demand, possibly on the basis of the
positive policy changes rather than an analysis of existing, well prepared
investment projects (paras. 33 and 34).
8.       Measured agains:. current Bank thinking on credit line lending, the
loan had other important weaknessess.  First, the selection of BANADE as
the only intermediary for Bank funds gave BANADE a monopoly over term
financing. At the time, the loan was in line, however, with accepted
principles in the Bank that put less emphasis on the benefits of
competition. Second, the lack of attention given to BANADE's long-term
financial viability, independently from Central Bank rediscounts and
external financing. Third, the adoption of a fixed interest rate mechanism
on dollar subloans, which made the loan unable to adapt to the changes in
international interest rates during the implementation period. The Bank
loan likewise had a fixed rate, which was standard practice until 1981,
when the Bank adopted a variable rate in response to the volatility of
international interest rates during the late 1970's (paras. 36-39).
9.       Bank supervision of the project was not adequate.  Supervision
missions were concerned with the status of subproject approvals and loan
utilization, but paid little attention to organizational and management
issues nor to the effects of the broader financial crisis on the project.
'When it became apparent that BANADE's slow appraisal procedures were
deterring clients, the Bank accepted the use of simplified appraisals for
equipment financing - without ERR and FRR calculatiors - to accelerate loan
processing, instead of improving BANADE's appraisal procedures. Similarly,
when the Bank identified a significant departure from the debt/equity
covenant, the Bank decided to enforce its compliance leniently. Moreover,
notwithstanding mounting problems in the economy and the institution, the
Bank found BANADE creditworthy for a subsequent loan (para. 29).
10.      This loan shows the difficulty of converting an essentially
bankrupt public bank into an effective and sound financial intermediary.
In the event, the Bank should have been convinced, before making the loan,
that the Governmentt (ij had a credible program to strengthen the external
environment; and (ii) would not use the DFC to bail out ailing public and
private enterprises. Also, the Bank should have agreed with the management
of the institution on a program to achieve certain organizational
performance targets. The project should have been linked to these
conditions through strong legal covenants that would allow the Barn to stop
new commitments or suspernd disbursements if any of these conditions were to
change drastically during implementation (para. 32).
11.      Finally, an important lesson is the need to complete PCRs on time.
The delay in completing this PCR prevented a thorough discussion of this
loan, which would have alerted the Bank to the internal problems in BANADE
and helped to improve the design and monitoring of the subsequent loan
(para. 35).



ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1463-AR
PART I. MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED BY THE BANK
A.       Project Identity
1.       Project Name                    Industrial Credit Project
Loan Number                    1463-AR
Loan Amount                    US$100.0 million
Cofinancing                    US$100.0 million
RVP Unit                       Latin America and the Carik  it
Region
Country                        Argentina
Sector                         Industry
B.       Background
2.       The military government that took power in Argentina in 1976,
shortly before project appraisal, had as an immediate objective to restore
macroeconomic stability and secondly to revitalize the economy. A more -
stable growth and increased productivity would be realized by: (i)
liberalizing trade to enable Argentine industry to become more competitive;
and (ii) liberalizing the financial sector to make it more efficient and
link it more effectively to the international capital markets.
3.       The policy context at appraisal was one of increasing
liberalization. Steps had been taken to unify the exchange rate; imports
of most items covered by the 1972 and 1975 prohibited lists were freed in
July 19763 advance import deposits and remaining quantitative restrictions
were abandoned. Tariff reductions between 1976 and 1977 reduced effective
rates of protection (ERPs) from an average of 111X in 1969 to 39X in 1977.
4.       The financial reforms announced in April 1976  included the
liberalization of interest rates in the financial sector, removal of
barriers to entry into the bankin6 system, and a guarantee system for time
deposits in local currency. There was also an attempt to return banking to
a fractional-reserve system, with an initial interest-earning, required-
reserve ratio of 45Z, much lower than the previous 10O requirement during
1973 to 1976. Commercial banks were also permitted to provide a wider
spectrum of financial services thus ending the specialization of financial
institutions. An important objective of these reforms was an overall



-2-
increase ir. term financing. In addition, Government measures to reduce the
fiscal deficit and to improve the efficiency of state enterprises was
expected to result in a gradual reduction of public sector competition for
funds.
5.       At appraisal, the Government and the Bank agreed that it would
probably take some t'me for a term market to develop; thus, the investment             L
requirement of industrial firms to adapt to a more competitive environment
would not be fully satisfied by the financial system for some time.
Reliance on foreign capital markets to fill this gap was considered
feasible only for the largest firms, so the Bank loan was intended to help
fill the gap in the financing of medium-sized industrial firms.
6.       The opening of the economy did not generate the expected
structural changes in industry so the anticipated investments did not
materialize. On the contrary, between 1977 and 1982 manufactured value
addeu plunged by about one-third, while employment declined 60Z. The
preparation of this project coincided with the initial success of the
liberalization program, so it was difficult to foresee the failure of the
1978-1981 macroeconomic policy, which centered on fighting inflation
through an increasingly overvalued exchange rate. The initial phase of the
tariff reform program, between 1976 and early 1979, had only a mild effect
on -industrial producers due to significant redundancy in the tariff system.
As a result, firms made only limited adjustment efforts. The second phase
of trade liberalization in 1979 produced more significant adjustments.
However, during late 1979 and 1980, reduced protection combined with
substantial currency appreciation and sharply rising interest rates
dampened firms' investment plans. As interest rates soared and external
capital became available at lower rates, intermediate good producers, less
affected by the recession, turned increasingly to external financing. A
banking crisis erupted in early 1980 as a result of excessively rapid
expansion of bank activities. In mid-1982 the financial crisis deepened as
a result of the combined effect of the sharp devaluations of the previous -
15 months, high interest rates, and the virtual cutoff of new external
loans. The devaluations and high interest rates affected both,
domestically and externally indebted firms and their banks. The
authorities reacted to the crisis by reversing the liberalizing reforms.
C.       Project Obiectives and Description
7.       The project consisted of a loan of US$100 million to the National
Development Bank (BANADE) with the Government guarantee. The loan
objectives were: (i) to increase the overall efficiency of the industrial
sector by helping to finance projects with the greatest potential for
exports and import substitution; (ii) to support the implementation of
reforms instituted by BANADE's new management aimed at enabling the
institution to fulfill its role as the zsjor provider of medium and long-
tenm funds to the industrial sector; (iii) to prov:lde BANADE with
technical assistance to improve its lending to the industrial sector: and
(iv) to serve as a catalyst for the mobilization of complementary external
funds from the international capital markets through cofinancing.



- 3-
8.       The loan components weres
(a) a credit line of US$99.75 million to finance the foreign
exchange component of industrial projects;
(b) a technical assistance component of US$250,000 to help improve
BANADE's lending to the industrial sector. More specifically, the
TA component included US$200,000 to cove- 65 man-months of
consultancy services for sta'f training and sectoral studies and
US$50,000 to finance fellowships to train BANADE's staff abroad.
In addition, BANADE was to obtain US$100 million in cofiaancing
through an internati3nal banking syndicate he-ded by Lloyd Bank
Ltd. of London.
9.       The interest rate of the Bank loan was fixed at 8.22 p.a.  The
loan was repayable over a maximum period of 15 years, following a flexible
schedule based on the aggregate of the amortization schedules of BANADE's
subloans. The loan proceeds were onlent in US dollars. The loan itself
was to be repaid in a basket of currencies with the Government assuming ;-.
cross-currency exchange risk.  BANADE would relend the loan proceeds at
interest rate of not less than 112 p.a., plus a commitment fee based on the
undisbursed balaace. Sublcans would be for up to 15 years with a maximum
grace period of 3 years: the maximum loan amount was fixed at US$6 million
and the 'free limit, below which the Bank would not review BANADE's
appraisals was set at US$2 million. All subloan requests of US$500,000 and
above would require FRR and ERR calculations as well as estimates of direct
employment generation and contribution to the balance of payments.
10.      Under the cofinancing agreement signed in November 1977 between
the Bauk and Lloyd Bank International (London), acting as agent for 36
participating banks, BANADE received a syndicated loan for 7 years, _
including 3 years of grace, at an interest rate of 1-5/8S p.a. over LIBOR
for 6 month US dollar deposits, plus 1/21 p.a. commitment fee on the
undrawn portion of the loan. The cofinancing agreement provided for an
optional cross -default clause in the Loan Agreement.
D.       Proiect Design and Organization
11.      The project was designed as a traditional DFC operation using
BANADE (a pablic sector bank) as channel for lending to private sector
enterprises. The only innovative feature of this loan was the cofinancing
agreement with a syndicate of European banks. While the financial and
organizational weaknesses of BANADE as an intermediary for Bank loans were
recognized at the time of appraisal, BANADE was selected as the borrower
because it was the only large financial institution in Argentina dealing in
development finance; furthermore, the Government had pledged to put it on a
sound basis.
12.      After having lent at highly negative interest rates during a
period of very high inflation, by 1976 BANADEW's equity was almost
completely eroded and its operations at a virtual standstill. Prior to



- 4 -
1976, BANADE's low interest loans frequently became a channel for subsidies
to industry and particularly to deficit-ridden state enterprises. The new
Government, wanting to restore the role of BANADE as a term-lending
financial institution, recapitalized BANADE through the infusion of new
capital and a capitalization of BANADE's liabilities with the Central Bank.
The new board and management team appointed by the Government adopted a new
organiz&tional structure for BANADE.
13.      During project preparation, Bank staff worked closely with
BUNADE's new management to reorganize the institution and to prepare a new
Institutional Charter and Statement of Policy. This was designed to
provide safeguards for the maintenance of BANADE's operational autonomy,
sound credit evaluation standards, and financial viability. The roles and
responsibilities of BANADE were clearly defined in the New Institutional
Charter, which underlined BANADE's primary role as a term-lending financial
institution acting within the overall industrial promotion framework set
by the Government. The new Statement of Policy set forth several
operational principles and limits to protect the institution from
unreasonable financial risks, including the provision that the
recapitalized institution's total debt would be limited to ten times its
capital and reserves. The debt/eauity ratio was considered reasonable,
given BANADE's role as a mixed commercial and development bank.
14.      The institution building aspects of this operation were
implemented up front, with no major institution building measures to be
implemented after effectiveness. The new Statement of Policy, satisfactory
to the Bank, was approved by BANADE's Board of Directors on December 29,
1976 and the new Charter of Incorporation was signed on August 31, 1977,
before the signature of the Loan Agreement. The Charter and the Statement
of Policy were listed in the Loan Agreement and could not be changed
without the Bank's agreement. The institution building aspect of the
project was limited to training BANADE's staff to carry out subsector
studies and to comply with the Bank's subproject appraisal procedures
through a modest technical assistance component of US$250,000.
15.      The scope and scale of the project seemed appropriate in light of
the expectation that the liberalization program adopted by the Government
would bring about a rapid revitalization of the industrial sector. However,
in hindsight, and as a matter of judgement, it is possible that the
appraisal mission was overly optimistic in Its assessment of the investment
demand, possibly on the basis of the positive climate and growth outlook
created by the liberalization program, rather than an analysis of existing,
well prepared investment projects.
16.      The operation had several design problems:  First, the limitation
of institutional improvements to the approval of legal documents (the
Charter of Incorporation and the Statement of Policy), without any follow-
up program to address the efficiency of BANADE's assets, liabilities and
operations management. Second, the absence of clear financial performance
targets for BANADE in the Loan Agreement, against which the Bank coald
assess BANADE's financial performance. The only financial covenant in the
Loan Agreement, the debt/equity ratio, was not adequate to monitor BANADE's
financial performance, including its liquidity position, which deteriorated
sharply during the financial crisis of 1980-83. Third, there were no legal



covenants for the use of the cofinancing loan and, thus, no operational
link to the Bank loan. Fourth., there was lack of specificity in the design
of the training programs to be financed under the TA component, which
explains the modest use of TA funds and the eventual cancellation of much
of this component.
17.      Measured against current Bank thinking on credit line lending, the
loan had other important design problems: First, the selection of BANADE as
the only intermediary for Bank funds, to the exclusion of other public and
private banks gave BANADE a monopoly over term financirg. At the time,
however, the loan was in line with accepted principles in the Bank, that
put less emphasis on the benefits of competition. Second, the lack of
attention given to BANADE's long-term financial viability, independently
from Central Bank rediscounts and external financing. Third, the adoption
of a fixed interest rate mechanism on dollar subloans, which made the loan
unable to adapt to changes in international interest rates during the
implementation period. The Bank loan was also at a fixed rate, which was
the standard practice until 1981, when the Bank adopted a variable rate in
response to the volatility of international interest rates since the late
1970s.
E.       Proiect Implementation
18.      The Credit Component.  The most critical shortfalls of planned
versus actual implementation of the credit component were: (i) the slower
than expected pace of loan funds use; a:.d -'i) the lower than expected use
of the funds for project financing as opposed to equipment financing.
19.      The loan became effective on November 28, 1977, but the first
subproject was submitted for Bank approval only in May 1978. By mid-June
1979, only US$19 million of the Bank funds had been committed. To expedite
loan utilization, BANADE's management requested, and the Bank agreed, that_
the US$6 million limit for subprojects could be exceeded in exceptional
cases. Low utilization continued, however, and by April 1980. only 332 of
the expected amount had been disbursed. The pace accelerated after mid-
1980, when the Bank accepted the use of simplified appraisal methods by
BANADE (see para. 21). The loan was almost fully committed (98.7Z) by end-
1982, three years after the original final commitment date. It was
formally clospd on October 24, 1985, three and a half years later than
originally expected, partly due to delays in procurement and the
postponement of investments in several large subprojects because of the
recession. To complete the project, the Bank had to extend the final
commitment date several times from December 31, 1979 to December 31, 1982,
and the closing date three times from December 31, 1981 to December 31,
1984. Even so, US$1.3 million of the loan was not disbursed and had to be
cancelled.
20.      Two factors accounted for the slow use of loan proceedss (i) the
decline in industrial investment in 1977-82; and (ii) BANADE's slow
appraisal procedures that discouraged borrowers, even though alternative
funds were more expensive and of shorter maturity.



- 6 -
21.      Although by November 1980 the interest rate on the Bank loan
through BANADE had increased from 1 to 12Z, it remained extremely
attractive when compared with LIBOR, which averaged 13.4? p.a. in 1980 and
16.16? p.a. in 1981; however, many potential borrowers were discouraged by
the length of time it took BANADE to complete an appraisal (see para. 35).
The May 1980 supervision mission reported that clients were transferring
their loan applications to Banco de la Nacion and Banco de la Provincia de
Buenos Aires both of which offered competing financing. To facilitate loan
processing, the Bank agreed in June 1980 to permit financing subloans of up
to US$2 million for equipment purchases needed to replace or complement
existing machinery, under a simplified appraisal procedure not requiring
EER calculation.  In December 1980, the Bank agreed to a further
simplification of proiect appraisal analysis making the calculation of FRR
not necessary for small subloans below US$100,000 and loans to small firms
(defined as having sales less than US$700,000, capital less than
US$200,000, and employing less than 10 people). These changes permitted
more rapid loan processing at the expense of strict evaluation criteria at
a time when banks and enterprises were becoming increasingly overextended
and many went bankrupt or required relief to remain in business.
22.      The Cofinancing Component.  The use of the cofinancing loan was
not as envisaged. The original assumption was that given the shorter
maturity and different interest rates of the cofinancing and the Bank
loans, BANADE would mix the funds and adjust repayments on Bank subloans
such that the aggregate principal payments would be approximately equal.
However, this objective was not reflected in the legal agreement and the
cofinancing loan was invested in indexed pesos subloans and quickly
disbursed in 1977178. These subloans were indistinguishable from other
indexed peso loans made from local currency sources. After 1978, the
cofinancing loan, based on LIBOR, became increasingly more expensive for
BANADE than the Bank loan. The Bank exercised its function to oversee
collections until September 1985. receiving Lloyd's notices and advising
BANADE of pend'ng and overdue notices. The Bank stopped this function when-
the outstanding debt to the private banks became part of the Government's
external debt, following renegntiations of private debt in 1985. The
private banks did not press the Bank to invoke the cross-default clause of
the Loan Agreement.
23.      The Technical Assistance Component.  Only US$40,241 of the
US$250,000 provided for training under the TA component was utilized and
the rest was cancelled. Host of the staff training programs carried out by
BANADE in Argentina were financed from BANADE's own funds. In 1982, BANADE
carried out nine internal training programs on technical and management
aspects of development banks. TA funds were used to hire an external expert
to help in the programs' preparation. Also, during 1981/82, 185 officials
of BANADE participated in 69 different seminars and symposia in Argentina,
financed from BANADE's own resources. The Bank, however, made a
substantial direct contribution to training BANADE's staff, through a six-
week special training program organized in the Bank for senior loan
officers and project analysts in June/July 1979. The TA component was also
used to finance the preparation of a plan for the development of human
resources in BANADE, by a local consultancy firm, and two former Bank/IFC
members retained by BANADE to design a program and budgeting system and to
review the loan decision making process.



-7-
F.       Project Results
24.      The Credit Component. Under Loan 1463-AR, BANADE financed a total
of 223 subprojects, of which 11 were over the free limit and 212 did not
require Bank approval. The total use of the loan funds was US$98.6 million
and the total cost of subprojects, as reported by the borrowers, exceeded
US$360 million (this is a partial figure, since in most cases the overall
cost of equipment financing was not reported). The Bank loan had been
primarily designed for project financing, i.e., new and expanding
enterprises. At the end, the loan financed only 19 new projects amounting
to about 451 of loan commitments; the rest of the subloans (204) were for
equipment 2inancing. Medium and large enterprises were the main
beneficiaries of the loan, although some of them used Bank loan proceeds to
finance only a fraction of their project investment costs.  Commitments
accelerated markedly after 1980, when the onlending rates under the loan
lagged substantially behind both LIBOR and domestic interest rates. One of
the results of this project was, therefore, the implicit subsidy it
provided to its beneficiaries. It is difficult to assess whether the
subloans contributed to an improvement of the efficiency of the borrowers,
as originally intended, because only 11 subprojects reported ERR
calculations. These subprojects showed an average ERR of 24.7Z, but no
attempt was made to confirm the ERR expost. Similarly, it is impossible to
determine if the loan contributed to expand exports, as originally
intended, befcause no systematic calculation and recording was made of the
effect of lie subprojects on the balance of payments, in spite of a
specific provision of the Loan Agreement (Section 3.02) that required such
calculation. It appears that most of the equipment financing was for
production for the domestic market and, since the equipment was usually for
replacement and not for expansion, these loans did not generate new jobs.
In fact, only 36 subprojects reported changes in employment amounting to
2,218 new jobs.
25.      Annex 3 provides a full listing of all subprojects financed under
Loan 1463-AR. Of the total of 223 subloans, 77 are still in BANADE's
portfolio; the rest have been fully repaid. As indicated in Annex 3, 7
subprojects (8 subloans) are having payment problems, although all of the
subborrowers are still in business. The three largest subborrowers in
arrears account for 86? and 892, respectively, of the total principal and
interest overdue. As part of a recent effort to increase collections,
prompted by the Central Bank decision to stop new rediscounts to public
banks, BANADE has initiated legal action against two of these subborrowers
and is in the the process of negotiating new repayment arrangements with
the other five subborrowers. While the overdue loans represent about 40X
of the 77 subloans still in BANADE's portfolio, the overdue amount
represents 152 of all subloans granted under Loan 1463-AR. This is a high
level of arrears, compared to those of a commercial bank which range
between 1 and 3Z of the outstanding portfolio. However, the collection
record under this loan is better than that of BANADE's entire loan
portfolio, probably as a result of more rigorous preparation and evaluation
procedures and less political influence on Bank financed loans as compared
to loans funded with Government rediscounts. The arrears situation of the
whole loan portfolio would be worse had it not been for BANADE's efforts
since the last quarter of 1988 to increase loan collections.



- a -
26.      The Cofinancing Component.  It is not possible to assess the
results of this component because there is no information on the types of
investments financed, since it was used for peso loans, indistinguishable
from other peso loans made by BANADE from other sources. For BANADE,
however, the loan was not successful because it became increasingly
expensive, as LIBOR rates soared after 1978. When BANADE stopped servicing
this loan, it added to the Government's external debt.
27.      The Technical Assistance Component.  This component received no
serious follow up. Only a fraction of the allocated anount was actually
used. BANADE carried out a staff training program in project appraisal
methods which it financed from its own resources. The program was regarded
as acceptable by supervision missions.
G.       Bank Pe:;formance
28.      During preparation and appraisal, Bank staff worked on BANADE's
new Charter of Incorporation and Statement of Policy. These were designed
to safeguard BANADE's operational autonomy, ensure adequate evaluation
standards and promote financial soundness. However, the appraisal was
overly optimistic of the effect of these legal agreements and overlooked a
number of BANADE's institutional weaknesses that became increasingly
important as Argentina's financial situation deteriorated, such as:
(i) overstaffing: at appraisal BANADE had 4,000 people and administrative
expenses between 3Z and 4Z of total assets; (ii) an ill- defined
organizational structure that lacked clear delinw'ation of responsibilities
and coordination between various operational departments; (iii) improper
accounting procedures based on accruals and inadequate standards for loan
loss provisions; (iv) absence of reliable information on loans in arrears,
status of resources, and maturities or breakdown of short and long-term
accounts (making it impossible to calculate liquidity ratios); (v) poor
loan collection procedures; and (vi) lack of independence of BANADE's board
of directors, which made it susceptible to political influence in its
lending decisions. Some of these weaknesses became apparent during
supervisions, but were not fully addressed during project implementation,
although recommendations were made to tackle some of these weaknesses
during a follow up oporation (Loan 2063-AR) which was under preparation.
The issues of overstaffing and inadequate financial reporting were
addressed by the subsequent loan.
29.      Bank supervision of the project was not adequate. The major
supervision weakness was the little attention paid to the outcome of all
tle organizational measures taken up front. While the number of
supervision missions (nine) was barely sufficient, these were mostly one
man/one week missions to check on the status of subproject approvals and
loan utilization. The Project was fully supervised only in 1978 and 1980,
because later missions in 1982/83 were already working on a subsequent
loan. Supervision missions paid little attention to BANADE's project
approval and supervision procedures. When it became evident that BANADE's
slow appraisal procedures was deterring clients, the Bank allowed BANADE to
use simplified methods instead of assessing the reasons for the delays and
trying to make the system more efficient. Supervision missions failed to



review the quality of the appraisal methods applied to loans not financed
with Bank funds. Although BANADE was supposed to apply the same project
evaluation methods to all its loans, independently of the source of funds.
During the period of the loan BANADE financed a number of large projects
with Government guarantees that later became the core of BANADE's arrears
problems. Also, Bank supervisions did nothing to assess the use given by
BANADE to the cofinancing loan that the Bank helped to negotiate.
30.      Supervision missions also paid little attention to BANADE's
financial situation. The only financial aspect that wa3 reviewed during
supervision was the compliance with the debt/equity covenant. No analysis
was made of the quality of the portfolio, the cashflow situation, or the
need to reduce operating costs. When the financial crisis erupted in 1980,
the Bank failed to step up supervision and ask for a special audit of
BANADE's accounts.  When the 1982 supervision mission identified the
erosion of BANADE's equity, the Government provided an equity infusion that
was, however, not enough to lower the debt/equity ratio to the covenant
le'el. The Bank decided to enforce its compliance leniently. Later on,
wh,.n BANADE's debt/equity ratio was more than twice the maximum established
ir the covenant, the Bank continued not pressing for compliance. The Bank
also failed to press for adequate reporting: periodic progress reports from
BANADE were requested only in August 1980, and the only external audit
received by the Bank was for 1981. This should have produced suspension of
disbursements. Notwithstanding mounting problems, not only in the
institution but in the entire financial sector, the appraisal mission for
Loan 2063-AR. found BANADE creditworthy for becoming a borrower in a
subsequent Bank loan in February/March 1981.
31.      There aze important lessons to derive from this project that are
relevant for other Bank financed investment projects in terms of the design
of investment projects, when the financial intermediary for Bank funds is a
public bank, and in terms of proper supervision during a financial crisis.
32.      This loan shows how difficult it is to convert a an essentially
bankrupt public bank into an effective financial intermediary with proper
financial discipline and independence from political influence. The Bank
tried to safeguard BANADE's operational autonomy through the new Charter of
Incorporation. However, the Charter did not shield BANADE's board from
political influences. Even if these political influences did not play a
role in Bank-financed loans, they contributed to the deterioration of
BANADE's portfolio. The Bank should have been convinced, before making the
loan, that the Government would not use the DFC to bail out ailing public
and private enterprises. Also, the Bank should have agreed with BANADE's
management on a program to achieve certain organizational performance
targets.
33.      The Bank tried to instill financial discipline into BANADE
through the Statement of Policies, that established limits in terms of
debt/equity and exposure to individual clients. But, in a country where
prudential regulations and supervision by the Central Bank are weak, as was
the case in Argentina during this project, these safeguards are not enough.
In such circumstances, the Bank should have established clear financial
performance targets against which to monitor the DFC's financial health,



- 10 -
including its liquidity position. In many projects of this type the only
financial covenant is th.3 debt/equity ratio. This ratio is inadequate to
monitor a DFC ca-hflow that can deteriorate rapidly during a financial
crisis.  Under i  se conditions, the Bank would have had to undertake
considerable supervision efforts to monitor compliance with accounting
standards and achievement of the financial targets.
34.      During this loan, the policy framework justifying this loan was
reversed and Argentina went through a very serious eccnomic crisis that
called into question the viability of the projects beinig financed and the
solvency of the intermediary bank. The Bank, however, did uot take any
precautionary measures: it did not step up supervision nor requested an
special audit of BANADE financial situation. Before making the loan, the
Bank should have been convinced that the Government had a credible program
to strengthen the external environment and linked the project to the
performance of this program through strong legal covenants that would allow
the Bank to stop new commitments or disbursements (to apply the Bank
remedies) if the policy environment or the economic conditions were to
change drastically during implementation.
35.      Another important and obvious lesson is the need to complete PCRs
on time. The delay in completing this PCR prevented a thorough discussion
of this loan which would have alerted the Bank to the internal problems in
BANADE and helped to improve the design and monitoring of the subsequent
loan.
H.       Borrower Performance
36.      Quality of Proiect A2Praisal, Supervision and  Loan Recovery.
Over the implementation period, BANADE developed acceptable appraisal
procedures for traditional credit operations, although the excessive
processing time (six months for medium/large projects and three to four
months for small projects) became a deterrent for prospective clients. The
main weaknesses of the system had to do with management of loans after they
had been appraised. BANADE's supervision of the subprojects was limited to
physical inspection, with the purpose of verifying expenditures; there was
almost no supervision during the operating life of the subprojects.
BANADE's major weakness was, however, in loan collection or recovery, as a
result of inadequate portfolio management and control systems. The
underlying cause of BANADE's poor collection record was, in the opinion of
a high ranking official in BANADE, that "until 1986-87, loan collection or
recovery had not been historically part of the corporate culture. and the
staff viewed the institution more as a disbursement window than as a bank.'
On the whole, however, the quality of the portfolio of Bank financed loans
was better than the rest of BANADE's portfolio.
37.      Ortanization and Staffing.  BANADE undertook only minor
organizational changes between 1978 and 1984. In 1981/82, an attempt was
made to define departmental responsibilities and in 1983 a Department of



- 11 -
Human Resources was created, which undertook a systematic training program
and developed a personnel policy. Despite these improvements, the
organizational structure of BANADE did not change sufficiently. The lack
of coordination among the various operational departments continued and the
number of staff was only marginally reduced. Many of BANADE'i
professionals continued the practice of maintaining outside jobs. This
system of part-time employment, which contributed greatly to the excessive
processing time of loan appraisal, was tolerated by management due to the
relative low salaries paid by BANADE relative to private sector banks. In
1984, a new Government once again tried a partial rehabilitation of BANADE
by appointing a new board and management team.
38.      BANADE's Financial Situation.  Neither the new Charter of
Incorporation and Statement of Policy nor the initial acceptable results
achieved by BANADE during 1976-1980, were enough to prevent the
deterioration of its financial situation between 1981 and 1984. When the
financial crisis started in 1981, the Government, once again, used BANADE
to rescue a number of large privately and publicly owned firms. As a
consequence, by the time the loan closed in 1984, BANADE faced a severe
financial crisis.
39.      Comparative balance sheets and income statements of BANADE in US
dollars equivalent for years 1979-1984 are presented in Anne. -s 4 and 5.
The balance sheets show a 782 deterioration in net equity from US$718
million in 1979 down to US$162 million in 1984. This was after substantial
Government capitalization of BANADE through grants and the liquidation of
its debt to the Central Bank between 1981 and 1983, representing an
increase of more than 1502 of BANADE's capital. The reasons for the
drastic decapitalization of BANADE were twofold: (1) increased arrears of
the current portfolio--resulting from the financial and economic crisis of
1980-83, aggravated by BANADE's poor collection efforts--forced BANADE to
substantially increase reserves to cover bad debts, thus reduced its
profitability (1979-83 provisions represented 3.5 times the actual            _
capital); and (ii) t.he need to finance assets (loans) with BANADE's own
funds at very negative interest rates since mid-1982 and the introduction
of regulated interest rates in early 1983. As a result, BANADE's income
account for 1981-83, while showing a modest profit in current US dollars
(Annex 4), resulted in substantial losses in constant pesos after
adjustments for inflation. In constant 1983 equivalent US dollars the
adjustment losses would amount to US$125 million. This deterioration of
BANADE's financial position is clearly reflected in its debt/equity ratio,
which reached 12.3:1 in 1981 and 26.4:1 in 1984, greatly exceeding the
limit of 10:1 established in the Loan Agreement.
40.      The ratios of profits to assets and return on equity were both
positive for 1979/80, but became negative for 1981-83, after monetary
adjustments. These ratios are, however, misleading due to BANADE's
accounting practices based on accruals. If international loan accounting
standards would have been applied, it is likely that interest accrued and
loan portfolio value would have been significantly lower than those
registered in the income statements, and that BANADE would have shown
substantial losses.



_12-
41.      A major source of BANADE's financial weakness was its gradually
deteriorating loan portfolio: portfolio arrears (over 10 days). which at
the end of 1980 represented 6.4Z of BANADE's overall loan portfolio,
reached 12.22 in 1984 and 21.12 in 1985. In 1982, as loan collection
deteriorated and voluntary external financing ceased, BANADE had to resort
to expensive short term borrowing to solve its liquidity problems. As a
result, BANADE had to temporarily suspend its operations in local currency
in late 1982.
I.       Proiect Relationship
42.      The project period covered seven years and both the Bank's Project
Officers and BANADE's management changed several times. Some lack of
continuity in project supervision was due to these changes.
J.       Project Documentation and Data
43.      BANADE did not fully comply with the reporting requirement of this
loan. According to the Loan Agreement (Sec. 4.02), BANADE's financial
statements had to be audited by the Central Bank which, as agreed during
loan negotiations, would act as an independent auditor. Annual audit
reports were to be reviewed by the Bank eRch year at the end of April. No
reports were received. In April 1980, the Central Bank proposed to limit
the audit report to the Bank loan and hire an external auditor for this
task. The Bank insisted that the annual external audit should cover the
entire institution. BANADE was opposed to the use of an external auditing
firm on the basis of confidentiality of public recores and the high cost of
private audits for an institution of BANADE's size. A compromise solution,
accepted by the Bank in August 1980, was an audit by BANADE's trustee
(5sindico'), who vas appointed and responsible to the Minister of Economy
but could hire private auditors. Between loan inception and 1984 the Bank
received only one internal report for 1978 and an external audit statement
for 1981. In 1984 the Bank agreed with the Government to accept audit
reports from the newly established Sindicatura General d? Empresas Publicas
(SIGEP).
44.      A chief reason for the delay in completing the PCR was BANADE's
contention that it was not possible to retrieve information on subloarn
granted under this operation. Data on these subloans had not been entered
in BANADE's computerized data base; moreover, according to BANADE
officials, a number of folders had been misplaced. Only after forceful
intervention by Bank management was a team created to retrieve the data.
The first information available to BANADE's management on the results of
this loan came from the data collected for the preparation of this PCR.



- 13 -
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 1463-AR)
PART III BASIC DATA
1. Related Bank Loans
Years of
Loan Title            Purpose                   Approval    Status      Comments
Second Industrial    To finance industrial        1981      Closed      Disbursement period
Credit                projects through a                                was extended for 6
Loan 2063-AR          US$100 million credit                             months after closing
line.                                             date in Dec. 1988.
US$9 million was
cancelled.
Small and Medium      To finance SMIs             1987      In          About US$30 million
Industries Project   projects through an                    progress   committed up to now.
APEX operation                                    The financial situation   B
(US$125 million)                                  of BANADE and other
using BANADE as second-                           participating banks is
tier bank and                                     under review to assess
commercial banks and                              the impact of current
BANADE as first-tier                              financial crisis.
lenders.



- 14 -
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECTs LOAN 1463-AR
2. Project Timetable
Staff    Dates of
Activity         Month/Year   No.of Weeks   No.of Pere.   Weeks    Retort
Identification       2/73           4              6         24         6/5/73
Preparation          4/74           1              2          2        4118/74
Preparation          9/76           3              4         12       10128/76
Appraisal           11/76           3              3          9        5125/77
Post Appraisal       3/77           1              1          1        5125/77
Subtotal                                                     48
Supervision          2/78           1              1          1        3/17/78
Supervision         10/78           1              2          2        3/14/79
Supervision         12/78           1              2          2        3114/79
SupervLsion          4/79           1              1          1             1/
Supervision          3/80           1              1          1         5/8/80
Supervision          7/80           1              2          2        8/18/80
Supervision         11/80 21        1              4          4 21    12/5/80
Supervision          8/82 3J        1              1          1 3/    9/29/82
Supervision          3/83 31        1              1          1 31    6/22/83
Subtotal                                                 15
Completion          10/88           2              1          2
TOTAL                                                    65
1/  No formal report.  The operations officer left the Bank in June 1979.
2/  Combined with preparation of the Second Industrial Credit Project;
supervision counted as 10? of the missiOn's time.
3/  Combined with Supervision of Loan 2063-AR; 10? time allocated.



- 1S -
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 1463-AR)
3. Loan Disbursements
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL EXPENDITURES AND DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
Appraisal Estimate   28.0    50.0    78.0    95.0    100.0
Actual                 --      2.0    26.0    55.0      83.0   87.0    93.0    99.0
Actual as 2 of         0.0     4.0    33.3    57.9      83.0   87.0    93.0    99.0
Date of First Disbursement                 10/06/78
Initial Loan Closing Date                  12/31/81
First Extension Loan Closing Date          12/31/82
Second Extension Loan Closing Date         12131/83
Third Extension Loan Closing Date          12/31/84
Fourth Extens'nn Loan Closing Date         10124/85
Date of Last Disbursement                  10/24/85



- 16 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1463-AR
BANADE - SUBPROJECT PROZILE
No.      2        Amount        2
(US$'000)
By Size of Subloan
Up to US$100,000                       49     22.0        3.382         3.4
US$'00,001-US$250,000                  88      39.5      14,027        14.3
US$250,001-US$500,000                  62      27.8      23,644        24.0
US$500,001-US$1,000,000                11       4.9       7,438         7.5
US$l,O00,001-US$5,000,000               9       4.0      20,544        20.9
More than USS5,000,000                  4       1.8      29,395        29.9
Total                              223    100.0       98.&30 La   120.0
BI Size of Subprojects
(Total Cost of Investments,
Up to US$250,000                      119      53.4      15,608         4.3
US$250,001-US$1,000,000                79     35.4       34,365         9.5
US$1,000,001-US$5,000,000              13       5.8      29,809         8.3
More than US$5,000,000                 12       5.4     280,747        77.9
Total                              223    100.0      360,539       100.0
By Size of Enterprise
Small                                  79     35.4       14,125        14.3
Medium                                108      48.4      30,283        30.8
Large                                  36     16.2       54,023        54.9
Total                              223    100.0       98.431 La   100.0
BY Maturity
Less than 3 years                       0         0                  0    0
3 to 5 years                           73     32.7       11,386        11.6
More than 5 years                     150      67.3      87,045        88.4
Total                              223    100.0       98.431 /a   100.0
La   Amount differs from Bank records (US$98,652) due to fluctuations in
cross-currency exchange rates.
Sources BANADE



- 17-                     ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1463-AR
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK - DISTRIBUTION OF SUBPROJECTS
No.      2       Amount          S
(US$9000)
Byr ReK^Ul
Capital Federal                        67     30.04     17,743        18.02
Gran Buenos Aires                      80     35.87      25,640       26.04
Provincia de Buenos Aires              18      8.07     18,954        19.25
Provincia de Catamarca                  2      0.89       9,642        9.79
Provincia de Cordoba                    8      3.58      2,669         2.71
Provincia de Corrientes                 1      0.44         273        0.27
Provincia de Chubut                     7      3.13      1,627         1.65
Provincia de Entre Rios                 2      0.89      1,443         1.46
Jujuy                                   1      0.44          62        0.06
La Rioja                                2      0.89         924        0.93
Mendoza                                12      5.38       8,519        8.65
Misiones                                2      0.89       4,026        4.09
Neuquen                                 2      0.89      2,135         2.16
Rio Negro                               2      0.89         671        0.68
Santa Fe                              11       4.93      2,296         2.33
Santiago del Estero                     1      0.44        631         0.64
Tucuman                                 4      1.79      1,018         1.03
Tierra del Fuego, Antartida             1      o.r5        150         0.24
Total                              223    100.00      98.423 la   100.00
By Sector
Fishing                                 1      0.4          178        0.2
Vlgetable oil                           1      0.4           53        0.1
Mining                                  6      2.7       11,713       11.9
Foodstuff                             19       8.5       5,387         5.5
Textiles                              38      17.0      21,278        21.6
Shoes and clothing                    12       5.4       6,004         6.1
Wood and wood products                  6      2.7        7,649        7.8
Furniture                               2      0.9         282         0.3
Paper and paper products                6      2.7       1,733         1.7
Printing                               15      6.7       2,993          .O
Leather and leather products            1      0.4           55        0.1
Rubber products                         4      1.8          600        0.6
Chemical products                       9      4.0       7,245         7.4
Mineral products (non-metallic)         3      5.8        4,181        4.2
Metal industries (basic)               12      5.4        4,053        4.1
Metal products                         20      9.0        3,363        3.4
Machinery (except electric)             5      2.3          838        0.8
Electric machinery                      8      3.6       4,302         4.4
Transport                               9      4.0       7,388         7.5
Various manufacturing                  28     12.6       6,790         6.9
Construction                            4      1.8          903        0.9
Public utilities                        4      1.9       1,433         1.5
Total                             223    100.0       98,421 /a   100.0
By Financina Puroose
New projects                          19       8.5      32,128        32.6
Modernization                         204     91.5      66,303        67.4
Total                             223    100.0       98.431 la   100.0
/a   Amount differs from Bank records (US$98,652) due to fluctuations in
cross-currency exchange rates.



- 18 -
ANNEX 2
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1468-AR
BANADE - OUTSTANDING ARREARS UNDER LOAN 14e3-AR AS OF 12/81/87
Overdue Amounts (US'66)
No. of Subloans           Total   Principal  Interest
Less then one year                                   I                8,19
More than one year                                   7                11,692
Total Arrears /b                                   6               14,881      8.es3      6.228 2  I
Total subloens granted                             228                98,432
Subloons still outstanding                          77                87,483
Arrears as X of:
Total subloans granted                           3.4X                16.1X
Outstanding portfolio under the loan            10.8X                89.9J
SUBPROJECTS IN ARREARS UNDER LOAN 1463-AR
(All Sources of Financing as of 12/81/87 In US8'00)
amunt         Overdue        Overdue            Total            Total
Company                    Outstanding     Principal (X)   Interest  (U)      Overduo  (%)   Exposure    (M)
(1)            (2)            (9)            (4)-(2-9)        (5)u(1.4)
1. Tojidos Argentinoo
Nortesto                   8,188        8,456   89.9    8,282     52.7   6,737   46.8   12,966        64.1
2. Talleres Absdor             1,217        1,883  21.2   2,251       86.1    4,089   27.6    5,808       22.2
S. Caffeti                     1,606        2,160   24.0        -      -      2,160   14.4    8,763       16.7
Subtotal                 s.98a        7.448   8.o    5.639      88.8  12.976   87.2  211.959        92.0
4. Uzal SMIC                       -          581    6.1      412      6.6      948    8.8        943      4.0
S. Grefic Velton                   -          492    5.7      194      8.1      680    4.6        686      2.9
S. Frigorifico Minguillon /b       -           89   6.1        66       1.0       99   0.7         99      6.4
7. Romse                           -          148    1.7       29      0.6       177    1.2       177      0.7
Total 1b                 !.983        8.668  1A.0  6.228       16.0  14.881              28.864    100.0
/b  One firm has 2 subloans, both In arrears.
Source: BANADE: mission calculations.



ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CRDIT PROJECT
SUBPROJECTS FIUNCED UNDER LOAN 1463-AR
Subproj.    Compny         Sector                Invest.            Esploy-    FRR       ERR     Total           TM90               Status
No.                                             Purposes           mont        (N)      (%)     Coat            Financing
(USUU)         (USIOMO)
A-1         Nalelc SA      Chemical Products   now                  64           21       21      13,458         6,022            eper/current
A-10         Tejidos Ar-   Textiles              ne                 410          18       2       64,018         9,016            arrears/r.rin.plan
gentl no
Norftt
A-li         Ceramica Z.-   Mineral Products     nec                so           20       33       0,82         2,096            oper./rofinanced
A-2         T llerl.       Equpmnt A Ac-         modernis.          -            33       20      10,973         8,062            arrears/leal action 
Adubor        cessorle 
A-3          TELMEC        Equipment (except   moderni:.            -            -        -           94            94            fully repaid
electrJcaI)
A-4         Establect-    Trtnsport Material   nodernia.            -            -        _          136           136            fully repaid
daentoo
Hiotel
A-S          Caffet        Wood S Products       moderniz.          -            -        -        3,872         8,872            arrears in restruct.
A-8         Astillero.     Transport Material   modernias           260          18       13      53U789         5,484            fully repaid
Allenaz
A-7         Copetro SA    Mining                 new                40           18       46     a8,671          9,919            oper./curarn
A-8         Cermic        Mineral Products      now                ee           17       16      206837          80,90           oper./current
A-9          Cay. Places    Wood A Products      codernia.          16           -        -        3,659         8,142            oper./current      t
0-1          Majls SA      Textiles              noderniz.          -            -        -          893           893            fuily repaid   
5-10         MeItO Argen- Foods                  moderniz.          -            -        -           62            62            fully repaid       1 
tino
8-lU         Industrias    Metal Producto        noderniz.          -            -        -           73            67            fully repaid O
Sice
B-101        Saleva Pata-   Metal Products       moderniz.          -            -        -          391           381            fully repaid
gonica
8-102        Canters Mala- Mining                moderniz.          -            -        -          369           369            fully repaid
Mgu A S.A. I. C.
B-103        Tecniflon     Various Manufact.    moderniz.           8            -        -           63           01             fully repaid



Subproj      Company         Sector                Invest.              Employ-      FDR       ERR       TotuIl           IBRD           Statuc
No.                                                Purposes             ment                             Cost            Financing
(u'51t)         (US666)
0-164        Precom          Various Nanufact.    moderniz.             -                         -      312              312            fully ropaid
S-105        Frigopap        Services              moderniz.            12           -            -   1,112              443             oper./curr.nt
E-109        Ruben A Ze-    Furniture              modernis.            -            -            -      122              122            fully repaid
pato
5-107        Tex San An-    Textiles               woderni.             -                         -      497             45'             fully repoid
dreo SA
B-1O8        A Reain o       Equlpeent &           medorniz.            -            -            -      130              81             fully repaid
Hijoe          Accessories
9-109        Metalurgica    Various Manufact.    moderniz.              -            -            -     498              491             oper./current
Delluchl
S-11         Vitolon SRL    Various Manufact.    moderniT.              -            -            -       53               63            fully repaid
8-110        .oso Cl rocco   Metal Products        modorniz.            -            -            -      1i7              134            oper./current
9-111        Clagraf         Printing              moderniz.            -            -            -      134              134            opor./refinanced
B-112        Autopocess      Various Manufact.    moderniT.            6             -            -      1s8             16             fully repaid
B-118        Fcb..           Various Manufact.    aoderniZ.             -            -            -      394              394            fully repaid
S-114        Ruon Chozas   Paper a Products        moderniT.            4            -            -     695              496             oper./curront        r
SA                                                                                                                                              o
8-115        Ouayula         Rubber                modsrniz.            -            -            -      120              es             fully repaid
8-116        Fortbenton      Chemical Prod.        modernIs.            -            -            -      117               e1
Co. Labors
B-117        met Port        Metal Products        moderniz.            -            -            -       46               46            fully ropaid
B-118        Corto y         Shoot & Clothing      moderni:.            -            -            -       60               S1            fully repaid
Estilo
8-119        Ricardo         Food                  new                  -            -            -      102              102             fully repaid
Mario Bravo
8-12         Claveplest      Various Menufact.    modernis.             -            -            -      338              339             fully rpald
SRL
8-120        Plsnolux        Various Menufact.    moderni:.             -            -            -      146              1 3             fully repaid
SAIC
E-121        Textil I.-      Textiles              moderniz.            -            -            -      140              140             tully repaid
B-122        Cattorlnl       Shoes A Clothing      moderniz.            -            -            -      264              118            fully repald    5
8-123        Ernesto         Various Manufoct.    roderniz.             -            -            -      183              148            fully repaid      1% X
Rlnsaldo JEN
B-124        Achinelli       Textiles              moderniz.            -            -                  187              187             fully repaid      "
8-125        Surlon          Textiles              moderniz.            -            -            -      19e              17S            opor./current    O
B-126        Micrunda        Paper & Products      moderniz.            -            -            -      6f0               e             fully repaid
8-127        Cabsha          Food                  moderniz.            -            -            -      167              167            fully repaid



Subproj.    Company         Sector                Invest.            Empploy-      FDR      ERR      Tots I           IRD             Status
NO.                                               Purposes           Mont                            Covt             Financing
(US3:Og)        (USU6)
5-12s        Voltacord      Transport Materials noderniz.            -             -           -     292              292             fully repaid
8-129        Coaplejo Ar-   Textilee              modernia.          -             -           -     189              180             fully repald
geetino Ft-
bres
8-18         Artlime  SA    Metl Products         moderniz.          -             -           -     220              216            fully repeid
B-IN         Agrest         Shoes a Clothing      sedernsi.          -             -           -     260              145            fully repaid
8-181        IND Plati-    Shoes A Clothing      eodernls.          45            -           -     731              368            fully repaid
too ENTRE
8-182        Foderaei       Textiles              moderniz.          4             -           -     587              385            fully repaid
SACIF
8-133        Citex Centro   Textile.              mooderniz.         -             -           -     175              176            fully repaid
IND Textiles
8-134        Witcel         Paper A Products      mederniz.          -             -           -     336              172             fully repaid
8-186        Mlloino Ar-    Foods                 mederni7.          -             -           -      79               79            fully repaid
gentino
B-187        Jose Carte-   Construction           moderniz.          gO            -           -     478              478            fully repaid
lione Cont
8-138        Oel Turiet     Foods                 neo                14            -           -     300              256            fully repaid
9-189        San Antonio    Metal Producto        eoderniz.          -             -           -      82               82            oper./current
Cheeanov
8-14         EST Textil     Textiloe              modernis.          -             -           -   1,016            19016            oper./current
DESTE SA
B-140        Enrique Sans   Printing              moderniz.          12            -           -     417              417            oper./current
B-141        Kenno          Transport Materials  eoderniz.           -             -           -      6S               34            fully repaid
B-148        C.I.V.E. SA1C  Mineral Products      moderniz.          -             -           -     349              349            fully repaid
B-144        Silvisi Lis-   Foods                 moderniz.          -             -           -     861              420            oper./current
note
B-146        lmpresora Pa- Printing               moderniz.          -             -           - 118.060          116.900             oper./curront
tagonlea
9-146        conzalo: y     Printing              modorniz.          -             -           - 130,060               84            oper./current  co
C. Tornsn os
8-14         IlMocel Hnoa.   Printing             moderniz.          -             -           -     138              138            fully repaid        >
9-148        Artie SA       Motal Products        moderniz.          -             -           -     180              100            refinencod/      o
fully repaid    "'
B-i6         Tableros       Wood a Products       moderniz.          -             -           -  19,998              183            fully repaid    o
Cullerm;nis
!-



Subproj.    Company         Sector               Invest.            Employ-       FOR      ERR      Total           IBRO            Status
No.                                              Purposen           eunt                            Cost            Financing
(USSeo)         (US66U)
S-163        EST Metal      Equipment (ox.       modornix.          2             2           -        1e7          167             fully repaid
UnlYvrSal      electric)
SAIC
9-161        IND Sices      Mineral Products     moderniz.          -             -           -         ?0           24             arre,ar/refinrned
9-152       Utal SAIC       Textiles             modernit.          -             -           -        683          427             fully repaid
9-i         Fargo          Foods                modernia.          -             -           -        197          186             fully repald
0-tS4        eila Cosal-    Textiles             mod-nix.           -             -           -      1,117          365             fully repaid
9-15        Tejedurie      Textiles             modernla.          -             -           -         96           96             fully repaid
Diroctorlo
B-1l6        Valonciana     Textiles             moderniz.          -             -           -         M           8336            fully repaid
Arg Joes
9-167        Editorial      Printing             modornix.          -             -           -        236          238             oper./current
Luio Feldman
B-lS        Cotoca         Textiles             Oms                62            -           14     4,760          823             oper./current
9-19        La Cartujana   Mineral Products     modorali.          -             -           -        119          119             oper./current
SRL
B-16         Leon Romagnoll Basic Metals         mdorniz.           -             -           -        405          406             oper./current     r}
9-100        Sancor Coop    Foods                moderni:.          -             21          -      1,071          633             fully repald
3-161       HMrosC          Basic Metals         nodernla.          -             -           -         79           79             fully repaid
9-162        Textil Lmeens  Textile,             modernix.          -             -           -         77           77             refinanced/
fully repaid
9-163        Jose Cirocco   Metal Products       ooderniz.          -                         -        238          149             opor./current
1-164        Mieropack      Paper A Products     modernit.          -                         -        166          129             fully repaid
9-166        Bolselux       Various Manuf.       .oderniz.          -             -           -        388          389             op.r./current
3-166        Metlurgica    Various Manuf.        moderni:.          -             -           -        883          494             opsr./current
9-167        into           Tsxbiles             modernia.          -             -           -        476          410             fully repaid
5-169        Row aIu        Metal Products       %odernil.          -            -            -        106           74             eper./current
9-17         Tocalca        Vgetable Otis        modernis.          11           -            -         63           68             fully repaid
LIDAD
B-17        ISND Arpon      Equipment I          moderniz.          -            -            -         69           69             fully repald
Accasorie.                                                                                                                 I
B-172        fCO Mb-        Minersl Products    modornlx.           2            -            -        412          412             aepr./current  eQ 
se ices                                                                                                                               >>
9-173        Fargo          Foods                moderniz.          -            -            -         71           71            fully repaid    o
9-174        Taerm          Equipment a          modernix.          _-                        -        131         11             fully repaid    "'
Accessories



Subprej.     Copany          Sector                Invest.             Employ-      FDR      ERR       Total            IBR0            Status
NO.                                                Purposes            mont                            Cost             Financing
(USSwS)         (USS9U
3-175        Lascar          Food                  modernix.           -            -            -        Is           109             fully repaid
8-170        Lutujyan        Textiles              medernit.           -            -            -        265           201            fully repaid
B-17?        Copiscol        Varlous Manut.        eoderniz.           -            -            -         96            96            fully repaid
8-179        Ricerdo         Shoes 0 Clothinig     madrni:.            -            -            -        417           256            oper./curr.nt
Almsr SA
8-18         Calsra          Mineral Products      moderniz.           -            -            -        267           264            fully repaid
Avel taneda
8-189        Industrial      Equlpment A           modernis.           -            -            -        332           532            oper./current
Real           Accoessries
8-181        Fabriour        Textilto              noderniz.           -            -            -        300           150            fully repaid
8-192        Velante         Rubber                aodernlz.           -            -           -         180           18            fully repaid
8-198        Rio Cincel      Mining                moderniz.           -            -           -          89            62            reflnanced/
fully repaid
E-185        Texas           Equlpment (non-       modarniz.           -            -           -         230          230             oper./current
electric)
B-187        Fundiceons       asic metals          modorniz.           16           -           -         8902          149            fully repaid
Horto
B-168        Tintoral        Textiles              moderniz.          -             -           -         190           189            fully rapaid
8-189        Manual          Shoes A Clothing      moderniz.           -            -           -          74           G6             fully repald
Aretanian
3-19         Prodi o         Equipment (non-       modernis.          -             -           -         130           116            refinanced/
Electric)                                                                                                 fully repaid
B-199        Toxa Testil    Textiles               moderniz.          -             -           -         634           256            fully repaid
Americana SA
8-191        Kursal          Mining                moderniz.          -             -           -         446          420             oper./refinanced
B-192        Cror c rUstaltic Products    moedrnil.                   -             -           -         S30          820             fully repald
8-193        Grafice         Printing              noderniz.          -             -           -         492           499            orrears/under review
Ye item
8-194        Vels.r          Chemical Products    no.                 -             -           -         234           69             fully repaid
S-195        Laboratorto    Various Manuf.         moderni:.          -             -           -         380          188             oper./refinanced
Alex
8-197        Imprecolor      Printing              modernit.          -             -           -         280          280             oper./current
8-198        Microonds       Paper a Products      moderniZ.          -             -           -         7W6          407             oper./current       o
8-190        Ramon Chozas   Paper a Products    moderniz.             -             -           -         762          466             oper./current        nX
8-2          Henter ICSA    Wood & Products        moderniz.          -             -           -         164          164             fully repaid          u
8-20         Motorar C       Equipment &           moderniz.          -             -           -         106          106             fully repaid        wh
Accessories



Sbgproj.     C _mpny         Sector                Invest.             Employ-      FDR      ERR       Tote I           IR             Status
NO.                                                Purpo e              .nt                            Coot             Flnneing
(USS)O          (1163606
9-200        A8ucenrs        Fooed                 modernig.           -            -            -        405          222             fully repaid
Concepeon
B-201        Ray.. Curs S   Mineral Produts        modernit.           as           _            _         16          266             fully repaid
S-213        Bufflo         Transport Material.  modernmi.            -            -           -         117         lS              fully repaid
6-294        PIonrRef        Basic Motels          s_derl.             -            so           -        383           193            fully repaid
B-29E        CordOllo s      Txtile                modernik.           -            -           -         S3O           207            oper./curront
CIA
s-206        Editorlil       Printing              edbrnis.           -                         -        414          414             opor./current
Rio Negro
B-207        Piragus         Equipment &           moderniz.           -            -            -        776          397             oper.2current
Accessories
S-208        Agrocom         Foods                 moderniz.           -            48           -      1,519          966             oper./current
0-21         Forneostal      Metalic Products      moderniz.           -            -            -        196           131            fully rep.id
B-210        Plante.         Foods                 modernik.           -            -            -      6,800          681             oper./current
Lacteass
3-211        Arty            Mstalic Products      moderniz.           -            24           -          8S           98            oper./refinsnced  r
B-212        Frigopap        Services              Modernit.           6            -           116       435          394             oper./current       s
0-213        Petroplast      Various Manuf.        new                 106          20          33        138           136            oper./eurrent
-214         Marplatens-    Fishing                moderniz.                        -           -         179           178            opor./current
9-216        8oldt lopre-   Printing               modernig.           -            -           -         279           169            fully repold
sore.
3-216        Formametal       Ustalic Products     modorniz.           -            -           -         294           193            fully repaid
SA
3-217        Rleardo         Shoes & Clothing      modernit.           -            -           -         130           138            oper./current
Almr
Hiljo
B-21l        Tennloacti-    Chemical Products    noe                   106          16          21    28,163         1,075             oper./current
weo del
Literal
3-219        Tentil Le       Textiles              moderniz.           -            -           -         t38          338             oper./current
S-22         Aerosol Sin-   Chemical Products   soderniz.              -            -           -          84           64             fully repaid    OQ
tools                                                                                                                                         x
8-220        Editorial       Editorial Perfil      moderniz.          1S            -           -         699          189             oper./current
Porf il
8-221        Implex          Verloue Manuf.        moderniz.          -             -           -         182          182             oper./current    o



Subproj.     Cospany        Sector                Invest.             Employ-      FDR      ERR       Totol           IBRD            Status
NO.                                               Purpozeo           imont                            Cost            Financing
(USSO0)         (USS06)
S-mit        Las 4 Barren   Textiles              modornia.           _            _           -         1l6          1i              oper./refinaned
s-na         Clonsplest     Various Manuf.        modorni:.           -            -           -         280          266             op.r./currant
2-224        Ritox SA       Toxtiles              modornix.           103          4E          -       1,979          914             oper./curr.nt
B-22S        Siteo SA       Textiles              ModernIz.           -            -           -         829           29             oper./rofinanced
9-2a         Laboratories   Chemical Products    aodorniz.            -            -           -         236          210             fully ropoid
Vang
B-24         Psolini SAIC   Various Manuf.        modsrniz.           -            -           - _86                  s66             fully repaid
y Jorge Rawl  Shoes a Clothing
9-25         Asinsimn       Metal Products        *odernik.           -            -           -         420          411             fully repald
9-26         Cede           Textilee              modernik.           4                         -        146          122             fully r pild
B-27         Spivak y       Textiles              modernia.           -            -           -         446          467             fully repaid
arymwaig
B-28         Plastles La-   Various Manuf         moderniz.           -            -           -          64           62             fully repaid
vall,
3-29         Artloss        Mtal Product*         modernls.           -            -            -        210          210             oper./r.finenced
9-8          Syntaryc       Chemical Products   moderni:.             -            -           -         829          a29             fully repaId        N
S-sO         Tintorerlo     Textiles              aedernix.           -            -           -         see          see             op.r./refinanced    n
Industrial
Mod
S-Si         Aceros Caste- Basic Metals           mdernli.            400          17          -      10,286          936            oper./curront
llone SA
9-2          Materia Hnos. Chemical Producto    moderniz.             29           93          -         370          847            fully repaid
B-33         Metelursca    Moetal Products       naw                  -            14          -      16.962          675             op.r./curret
Carte
3-84         Fadete         Textiles              moderniz.           -            -           -         109          169             fully repaid
8-88         ua")           Printino               odermls.           -            -           -          SO           u             fully repaid
S-U          Frigoritico    Foods                 noderniz.           -            -           -         170          166             arrers/lopl
Mingeillon                                                                                                              acton
e-a7         Mecanotecnics  Rubber                moderni.           -            -           -         10S          105             fully repaid
9-U6         Floreaclo A    Textiles              modernla.           -            -           -         897          SW              fully repaid
Franc 
98-9         La Industrial  Mineral Products      moderniz.           -            -           -          73           78            fully rpaid
3-4          Fsepare                              moderniz.           120          -           -       1,175          466            fully repad          X
3-4          Frlrifico    Feeds                  modernis.          -             -           -        210           177            fully repaid
3-41         Dlenenido      Metal Product3        nodernia.          2             -           -        1N            170            fully repaid
hellsica                                                                                    7             7              ul  ead          f
~~~~1 Ile                                                                                              o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



v/' ag*.              *J1Lt                  -E         -9 a4
H;   3.                  U            3rJ       -          -           -                                                             84_"0 $
plwkj ilJ 55         131         931                               -            sa                go I1aJL    l1.akav           u
we
pladv 911%             mg                                                                              PM      a s    _We40qw  
pIE   53.             Wi    _ a             -     ' t-             S          'I'W                w                     1_
PjSS  533       *t                          -     _           _           .     1P0            *                                994
fl @J                enu ot      m         -           -           t          ?gedSpO         mq""             lIIS& l'4'
pl JJ0di .                                              -ti 'la ,& 
pge   53o ml              m5    U1             -           -           -                               Oft 41A       VAw  I
pg dj N 5u          53           6         -          -           -          *3IUJ6 l           1| "
pfadv,                                                                                       low"  Z __ tis_ Wl1w "*
p5.ed.J31.           U!           MI        -          -           -          *2s_.op   *131UA                *5u s             694
I#                NW"         NW|                                       _                                       _      _a l   124 
*0     pgod.. 1 535          *11         Om                                                                               so" IJe  Wdi~  t6ig3
ptldJ SI Iot mz                              -          -           _          'utsewm *g             1
pied.6jm~ SIl          oa                    -          -           -          lasP                                              494AW3  U
p1gd.j Algo           mu n         6         -          -           -                                 1Jd   tA%M                 39
pded  l              UT          sse        -          -           -          33J093              "iA" 1l               * t
p36dSi t505          Its         D9         -          -           -                                IZt w_41   -4V 416140
pledej ggjjn         so          mx         -          -           -                                          6014. aSPJdI4O6A*Sd0p"  9
p3deJ slink             l         GOB        -          -           -                                         S*Puwee  e.sIA  op emow" 
(memo         (msn)
6u1s  am           lan,e     MGu  sme edja
"~~asi                 ja~o       gi    le        e -A@IduI         *~sOaUZ              J""9         U4t        f.dqmgR



SubproJ.     Coemny          Sector                Invest.            Employ-       FDR      ERR       Total            IBRD           Status
tb.                                               Purposoe            mnt                              Cost             Financing
(USISI)         (USSOW)
W1-          Establ.         Textile             modernia.           -             -            -      i,02         1,260             In oper./current
Textils
Son Andre
W42          Industries      Noetl Products       oderniz.           -             -            -        490           457             In sper./current
Germa SAIC
848          P Goallibrtl  Equipment (non-        modernIx.           -             -            -        230           23a            fully repold
electric)
8-64         ld. Calgo       Various Vanuf.       moderni:.           -             -            -         94            84            fully repaid
Arg.
8-8          Mecca Costs    Basic Mtale           moderniz.           -             -            -        134           127             In oper./current
LAR SA
1-66         Industries      Mineral Products     modernis.           -             -            -        117           117            fully repaid
Tonic SA
-67           aceo Ind.      Metal Products        moderniz.          -             -            -        1se          18             fully repld
Arg.
S-G          Anos            Basic Mtals          odernit.            -             -            -        319           319            fully repaId      t
SACIF IA
3-9          Artl7tdes       Printing              moderniz.          2             -            -         86            68            fully repald
Peacual
Pstach
1-7          Reus            Basic Metals         moderniz.           -             -            -        196           196             In legal action/
operating
w-76         Signi SA        Basic Motols         moderni:.           -             -            -        270           219            fully repaid
1-71         Aid. Oscar      Prlnting             uoderniz.           _-                         -        161           161            fully repald
lMartinez
8-72         Vandsrf i       Textiles              nodernIz.          -             -            -        669           se7             fully repald
SAZA
8-74         Sultex          Text;les             modernis.           -             -            -        216           21S             fully repaid
1-76         Naprlco         Food                 moderni:.           -             -            -         54            54             fully repaid
1-r76        Otluares        Various Manut.       modernla.           -             25          -          9S            90            fully repaid
8-77         Madrareos       Furniture            moderni:.           -             -           -         159           159            fully repaid  
Bnistuo Hnon                                                                                                                              W II
8-78         Ceramice        Mineral Products     moderniz.           -             -           -         273           273            fully repaid   %X
Romero                                                                                                                                    
B-79         Agrest SA       Shoos A Clothing     moderniz.           -             -           -         490           418            fully repaid   r"
1-8          Walko Textil   Shoes A Clothing      modernis.           -             -           -       8,8so        3,860             fully repaid   o-



SubproJ.     Company         Soctor                Invoet.            Employ-       FDR      ERR       Total             MDRO          Stotuo
NO.                                                Purposeo           Mont                             Cost             Finoncing
(USSOOS)        (USSMe)
B-8O         Pi rgec SA      Equipment A Accos-   moderniz.           -             -            -        1B0           lee
sorios
B8-1         Peolinl         Various Manuf.        modorni:.          -             -           _         134           127            fully repaid
8-02         Buffolo         Transport Materials  modernia.           -             -            -        426           426            fully repaid
18-4         Ennio FCI'      Printing              moderniz.          -             -            -        134           129            fully repaid
Ayses
9-5          Sl3:0in         Food                  moderniz.          -             -            -        486           460            current/in
Llmnooz  o                                                                                                                operation
B-@8         Curt Las        Leather A Products   modernIa.           -             -            -         74            66            fully repaid
Roass
3-87         Plasties I.-  Various Manuf.          moderniz.          2             -            -        317           817            current/Tn
plasl                                                                                                                     operation
08-          Loot  Roiag-    Basic Metls           moderniz.          -             -            -        438           438            current/in
noll                                                                                                                      operat7on
B8-9         Frigoriftco    Food                   nodorntz.          -             -            -        183           168             In legal
mingul lion                                                                                                               action
S-9           asFa   SRL FAB   Transport Materials  oderniz.          -             -            -        466           461            eurrentfin
Arg.                                                                                                                      operation
BSOe         Buffalo SACI  Transport Materials  moderniz.             -             -            -        460           358            fully repoad
0-11         Laminfer SA    Basic MeIts            moderniz.           -            -            -        418           412             fully repaid
8-92         mamelli Va-    Services               moderniz.                        -            -         86            a6            fully repald
llejoe Fiilu SR
8-98         Petrop)ast      Various Manuf.        neo                 166          20           83     8,773         1,4C8             current/In
operation
9-94         Aerosol Sin-   Chemical Products    aodernhz.             -            -            -         64            64             fully repaid
teeis
8-96         Vall y Dl    Metol Products           moderniz.          2             -            -        128            9S             fully repaid
Benedetto
8-96         Linotol         Construction          noderniz.           -            -            -         3S            as             fully repaid
8-9P         Induret         Various Mentf.        oodorniz.          -             -                      es            es             filly repald  
8-90          Blecor SA      Various Menu?.        modern I.          -             -           -          84             4             fully repaid  2Q
Roesrlo  Giglio
8-99         Laurenzano y   Various Manut.         mwdorni.           -             -           -          66            60            fully repaid   0 w
CIA                                                        _           _           _
Total    228 SubproJacts                                          2,218                              866,50    162,16 I
0o
_ s. l. _



- 29 -
ANNEX 4
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1463-AR
BANADE - COMPARATIVE BALANCE SHEETS, DECEWBER 31. 1979-87
(in USS million)
1979   1960   1981    1982    1983    1984    19o6    198e   1987
ASSETS
Cash and duo from Banks            80.4  189.1  236.8  219.1  114.1  108.7   61.4   99.69 89.
Covernment Securities               -       -      62.1   90.1   71.b   46.4   37.1   28.4   12.4
Loans and other Assots In
Foreign Currency                 779.4  1692.1
Loans                             719.4  1111.1  2965.4  2833.3  2918.8  3626.7  8167.2 2846.8  3140.0
Other Receivablos for
Financial Intermediation           -       -     311.8   820.8  1670.8  1607.3  1568.6  1942.7  1667.9
Equity in other Companies         233.4   49.9   24.2   27.2   32.6   49.9   48.0   25.6   14.6
Sundry Receivables                  -       -      14.5    4.6      8.5     5.5     7.7     9.8    8.5
Property, Plan and Equipment       14.4   17.9   13.4   13.3    13.4    19.O   24.9   24.9   23.7
Miscollaneoun Assets                4.4    5.7    8.7       1.2     1.8     1.7    6.5    7.4    6.8
Unappropriated Itm.                -       -       56.4   24.7   64.9   44.6   69.8 *. 7    47.7
Other Accounts                    920.7  1473.9     -        -       -       -       -       -       -
Toial Assets        272.8  4659.9 3872.7  4034.5  4715.8  4804.7  4961.S  6021.4 4881.8
LIABILITIES AND -QUITY CAPITAL
Deposits                          78B.6  1511.6  762.8  337.9  241.8  243.4  174.8  227.5  261.8
Othor Obligations
(for financial intermediatIon)   92S.9  1596.7 2626.4  8488.4  4281.8 4836.0  4614.2  4467.5 A4306.8
Sundry Liabilities                823.1  631.8   16.0       7.8   18.5    9.4    16.5    16.0   17.7
Reserves and Allowances            11.8   88.6   14.8   10.2        9.6    7.4      8.7   18.1    7.6
Items Pending Allocation        _  S.0   10.4   SS.S   37.9   37.6   46.1    61.0   S4.2   44.3
Total Liabilities   2033.4  8889.8  8464.2  3879.9 46s4.8  4642.4  4766.9  4773.0  4632.1
Capital Stock                     203.4  860.6   61.8    16.e   19.8   12.8   28.9   98.4   54.6
Non-capitalized Contributions
Monetary  Adjustments              -       -      23.6   17.9    17.6   128.5   121.8   77.8  135.1
Aggregate Capitsl Adjustment
Profit Reserve                   126.3   292.1   63.4    20.2      9.9   11.3    12.9   28.1   46.3
Retained Earnings                 390.1  101.8    40.0  101.8    86.5    14.4   60.7   44.0   14.6
Adjustmenta of Accrued
Earnings
Total Equity                    718.9  700.5  188.4  164.6   180.9  162.8  214.6  248.8  249.7
Total Liabilities and
Net Worth                      2762.8  4639.9  3872.7 4034.6  4716.8 4804.7  4981.6  5021.4 4881.8
Contingent Liabilities           B078.6  2699.8  2325.1  2151.8  1978.2  1677.9  2022.6 2164.8 2148.7
Note: Minor diecrepancios in decimals due to rounding.



- 30 -
ANNEX C
AROENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I!MSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1468-AR
BANADE - INCOWE STATEMENTS: 1979-1987
1979    198     1981    1902    1983    1984    1985    1980    1987
Financial Revenues                 209.4   820.8   722.2   638.0   710.2  1608.5  1819.8  767.7  1495.6
Financial Expenditures            (12.2) (707.8) (5.9) (494.7) (462.7a;1920.7) (877.7) (4".0) (998.4)
Charge for Bad Oebts              (129.?  (207.2) (183.9)  (96.6) (200.9) (887.4) (237.4) (160.6) (327.8)
Subtotal                        (246.5) (688.2)    4.4    47.2    48.5   195.8   195.2  127.0  169.2
Revenues from Service                    -           15.4    18.0    20.2    85.0    82.0    19.1    22.5
Expenditures fee Services          (14.8)  (28.5)   (1.8)   (0.9)   (1.7)   (2.7)   (3.8)   (1.2)   (2.6)
Monetary Result Froe
Financial Intermediation          -                                       (201.9) (145.0)  (75.6) (134.6)
Adminlstration Expenses            (A3.8)  (72.9)  (89.8)  (17.2)  (23.3)  (40.4)  (88.4)  (49.4)  (53.6)
Other Incom@e                       90.6   686.7    62.2   68.1       2.5    24.      88.    95.0  118.8
Other Losso/Expenses              (804.8) (115.t)  (15.0)  (17.2)   (9.0)  (14.7)  (32.2)  (59.5)  (70.7)
Monetary Result for
Other Operation                   -       -        -       - -              16.2     9.2   (12.0)  (34.8)
Net Result for Period               89.8    8S.    26.4    93.8    84.6        9.8    49.0   48.8    14.0
Note:  Discrepancies In decimals duo to rounding.



- 31 -
ANNEX 6
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COVPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1408-AR
BANADE - FINANCIAL RATIOS
1979   19w    19o    199    1983    1984   1986   S08    1987
1. Debt/Equity Ratio
(Including Contingenles)
Actual Total Overall         8.8:1   5.4:1  12.8:1  18.4-1  26.2:1   -       -       -      -
Total Long Term                -      -       -      -        -    26.4:1  18.6:1  208.:1 21.4:1
Estimated (1981)             2.,1   5.5.C1   7.0:1  6.8:1   6.1:1   5.9:1   E.4:1
2. Current Ratios                  1.19    1.17   1.98    1.94    1.94    1.05    1.66   1.08    1.19
8. Profit as 3 of Total Ascts      1.4    2.0    0.7    2.8    0.7    9.2    1.9    9.9    0.2
4. Return on Equity (S)            5.5   12.1   18.4   90.7&   26.8    0.0   22.8   17.4    5.6
S. Administrative Cota as
S of Total Asses               1.?     2.9    1.1    9.4       9.5    0.9    0.8    1.0    1.1
6. Gross Spread (Not Financial
Revenue as X of Loan
Portfolio)                  (-)7.7 (-)18.6    6.8    5.       S.J   19.2   18.6   10.8   15.6
Sources BANADE, Contadorls, 1988.
& Return Is high due to a small charge for bad debts in that year.



- 32 -
7
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1463-AR
BANADE - PERSONNEL EMPLOYED 1978-88                               *
Year                           Number
1S/31178                           4,033
12/31179                           3,972
12131/80                           3,841
12131/81                           3,761
12/31/82                           3,666
12/31/83                           3,686
12/31/84                           3,647
12/31/85                           3,539
12/31/86                           3,422
12/31187                           3,274
08/31/88                           3,175
09/29/88                           2,979
Sources BANADE, Human Resources.



