Document of
The World Bank                  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.1521 b-AR
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
ARGENTINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
May 25, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc2 of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
All currency amounts are expressed in Argentine Pesos ($a) and US Dollars (US$)
December 31, 1976:
US$1 = $a 277
$a 1 = US$0.004
May 12, 1977:
US$1 = $a 363
$a 1 = US$0.003
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANADE          Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (National Development Bank)
BCRA            Banco Central de la Republica Argentina (Central Bank)
DFC             Development Finance Company
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
FIEL            Fundacioon de Investigaciones Econo'micas Latinoamericana
(Latin American Economic Research Foundation)
FRR             Financial Rate of Return
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GNP             Gross National Product
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
IFC             International Finance Corporation
LAFTA           Latin American Free Trade Association
VNA             Valores Nacionales Ajustables (National Adjustable Bonds)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY  ............ ...............          ixiii
I.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR . .  c o . .... . ... . .. . ......       1
A.   Background .................               ........       1
Industrial Growth and Cyclical Fluctuations         1
Structural Change and Development of
Non-Traditional Industrial Exports .........      2
New Technology and High Cost Production   ......    3
Industrial Employment  ........................     4
B.   Industrial Issues and Policies ...............            5
Instability, Import Dependence and Macro-
economic Policies ................... ...         5
The Shift from Import Substitution to
Export Diversification .5....................     5
New Government Policies to Stabilize and
Stimulate Foreign Exchange Earnings ....          6
Mfajor Causes of Industry's Efficiency Problems      7
Policies to Improve Efficiency of the
Industrial Sector ....... . . . .......a ...  . ..... ...... .  9
Employment Issues in Industry and Policy
Options ....o   o.... ...o. .o.........   11
C.  Prospects and Project Implications        ................    12
Growth, Investment, and Exports .........          12
Figure 1: Fluctuations of Industrial Growth and Rates of Return
in Industry
This report is based on the findings of appraisal missions, led by Mr. Ludvik
and composed of Messrs. Santiago, IJogart (all of the Bank) and Reich (consul-
tant) which visited Argentina in September and November/December 1976. The
missions were assisted by Mr. Segura.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
List of Tables:
Table 1-1:     Growth and Structure of Value Added
in Manufacturing .........  ............. ............ .  16
Table 1-2:     Growth Rates and Industry Shares of GDP
in Selected Latin American Countries               17
Table 1-3:      Industrial Production                                18
Table 1-4:      Exports of Manufactured Products, 1960-1975 .        19
Table 1-5:      Exports from Argentina to LAFTA                      20
Table 1-6:      Industrial Employment, 1950-1975    ......           21
Table 1-7:     Utilization of Installed Capacity        ....         22
Table 1-8:      Comparison of Argentine with World Market
Prices of Some Industrial Goods, 1960-70           23
Table 1-9:      Fiscal and Monetary Incentives for Manufactured
Exports, 1970-1974/75                              24
Table 1-10:    Exchange Rates, 1960-1975.....                        25
Table 1-11:    Commercial Bank Credit to the Industrial Sector
in Real Terms .. .* ....... ................       26
Table 1-12:    Summary Table - Industrial Development                27
Table 1-13:    Short-Term Output, Export and Investment Plans
of 110 Industrial Firms                            28
Table 1-14:    Medium-Term Output and Investment Plans of
32 Industrial Enterprises                         29
II.   THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM . ....... ......  ...oo...........,   30
A.   Background ..o .......... 400- .. . . .... . ..30
Financial Institutions .o .........oo .......        30
Past Policies.       .     ....   . . ...... . . .   32
Recent Developments  o........ooooo .............    32
Industrial Credit .,-  -o-.-. ............o...    33
B.   Measures to Revitalize the Financial System ......        34
Interest Rate Policies ...........o..... oo         35
Banking Legislation .... o    .... ooo    ...... o..  36
The "Nationalized Deposit" System ....  oo ...       37
Foreign Currency Borrowings  .... o......o ...    38
C.   Future Prospects ..........    ..... .........            38



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
III.    BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO (BANADE)  ...............          ..       40
A.    The Institution ...............      ..      .................    40
Background ..................................               40
Board of Directors, Organization and Staff ..               40
Appraisal and Supervision .................         ..      44
Procurement and Disbursement ................               45
B.    Operations  .................. *    ....................          45
Operations by Sector ....................         * ...     45
Operations with State Enterprises             ...........   46
Industrial Development Banking Operations  ...              48
Commercial Banking Operations ....            ...........   50
Financial Situation .....          ....................     52
Financial Policies .........................                55
Interest Rate Policies .....          .................     56
External Auditing Arrangements .............         .      57
Projected Operations and Prospects .           .........    58
Cofinancing Operations ......................               60
IV.    THE PROJECT ................. .  ............. .. ..............        63
A.    Objectives of the Proposed Industrial Credit
Project .................          .        .......  ... ..     63
B.    Demand for and Expected Utilization of the
Proposed Loan ........... ........................              65
C.  The Proposed Loan ....................   66
General Description ................       .........        66
Subloan Terms . ............ .#.................. .         66
Approval Limits ...         ............................    66
Procurement and Disbursement  ....           ............   67
Technical Assistance Component ............          o.     67
V.   AGREEMENTS, UNDERSTANDINGS AND RECOMMENDATION .... .....                 68
A.    Agreements Reached ..          .......................... .68
B.   Recommendation ..... ..............          .................     68
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Charter of Incorporation
2.    Statement of Policies
3.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement for the Proposed Loan
4.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP






STAFF PROJECT REPORT INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
Reprint of the Sector and Pro4 ct Sections of the President's Report
PART I - THE INDtTST.IAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector _ Backz l nd
1.        Industry has long 'oeer an- f-.orrant sector of the Argentine economy.
At the turn of the century, the  l.aare c: 7enmfacturing in total output had
already reached about 15%. From this base, industrial growth surged ahead
during the Great Depression and again during World War II, propelled each time
by the substitution  of locally manufactured goods for imported products.
After World War II, the Argentine Governmsnt began to promote actively its
industrial sector through a combination of foreign exchange and import con-
trols, high tariffs and special tax incentives. Growth in manufacturing value
added averaged 4.1% in the fifties, rose to 5.6% in the sixties and accelerated
to 7.2% between 1970 and 1974, before falling to 3.2% in 1975. The average
industrial growth rates in the past, however, conceal wide fluctuations in the
annual rates of expansion which have ranged from 10% to -5% in the last twenty
years. The bottom of the latest recession was reached in mid-1976, and many
industrial subsectors have since experienced increasing sales. This was
particularly noticeable in food processing and agricultural supply industries,
such as agricultural machinery, tractors and trucks.
2.        Government efforts to pronnote  ndustry in the postwar period were
based on the concept of industrialization through import substitution. Laws
and decrees were issued offering both protection and incentives which encour-
aged a shift from the traditional industries to the "dynamic" modern sub-
sectors, mainly chemicals, rubber, metals, and machinery and equipment. The
share of total output of metal products, machinery, and transport vehicles and
equipment rose from 16% to 33% betwere 1950 and 1975, while the share of the
traditional industries declined from 50% to less than 30% during the same
period. Argentina became one of the few conatries in Latin America in which
the value added of these three "1dynamic" branches of industry surpassed the
value added of the "traditionals."
3.        In spite of a fairly rapId grcth rate and continuous diversification,
the Argentine manufacturing sector continues to be confronted with three major
interrelated problems: (1) a substantial degree of instability with rapid
swings from strong expansion to sharp conaraction; (2) a high-cost structure,
as reflected in relatively high prices and underutilization of capital; and
(3) a low labor absorption rate, which has left the manufacturing sector's
share of total employment a.t the ~3% zta existed in the early postwar period.
These problems and the measures being taken by the Government to cope with
them are discussed below.
Instability and Import Dependence
4.        Import substitution pdlisces have changed the composition of imports,
but not the volune and value cG :'F-  tS  .    have continuously grown.  Total



- ii -
imports doubled in value between 1960 and 1974, growing rapidly each time a
foreign exchange crisis had been overcome. During the same period, imports of
intermediate goods increased from 50% of total imports to 70%. The dependence
on imports is strongest in the "dynamic" branches of the industrial sector.
Consequently, industry remained highly dependent upon the foreign exchange
earnings of the agricultural sector. Whenever agricultural exports grew at
too slow a pace, usually due (separately or in combination) to inappropriate
macroeconomic policies, poor growing conditions and marketing difficulties,
industrial growth was severely hampered by acute shortages of foreign exchange.
In the fifteen years following World War II, import substitution
industries were promoted. In the early 1960s, however, policymakers realized
that higher and more stable growth rates could only be achieved through a
program of export diversification. In 1962, several fiscal and monetary
incentives to stimulate industrial exports were introduced, but had little
influence in the first years because of erratic exchange rate policies.
Later, when these incentives were supplemented by global reimbursements of
income taxes, an export insurance scheme and more realistic exchange rate
adjustments, industrial exports accelerated, reaching 23% of total exports
between 1972 and 1975. As was the case with overall industrial growth, the
rapid increase in manufactured exports at an average of 20% per year in real
terms between 1968 and 1975 was led by the "dynamic" industries, which reached
40% of total manufactured exports in 1973/75.
6.        The Government is aware that the most important prerequisite for
stable and continuous availability of foreign exchange is adequate incen-
tives for the Argentine exporter. It has placed emphasis on realistic
management of the exchange rate, which now offers both traditional and non-
traditional exporters a predictable prlce for their sales abroad. In the
specific case of nontraditional exports, the Government has negotiated
trade agreements with Brazil, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay and Venezuela which
contain provisions for the exports of relatively sophisticated manufactured
products from Argentina in exchange for mostly raw materials and intermediate
goods.
Efficiency in Argentine Industry
7.        The level of efficiency and competitiveness of Argentine industry
varies greatly among sectors. Although generalizations are difficult to
make, it is apparent that prices of many Argentine industrial products are
substantially above those in the industrialized countries and that the level
of capital utilization has been low during the major phases of the import
substitution cycle. In addition, there are specific problems of efficiency in
the various industrial subsectors. The "dynamic" industries tend to be tech-
nically efficient but relatively high-cost producers mainly because many firms
have remained too small to enjoy economies of scale. Most of the "tradi-
tional" industries, on the other hand, work with rather outdated equipment and
management methods which have made it difficult to sell beyond the domestic
market. This dualistic character is also evident in intra-industry analysis
which shows that a great number of subsectors are composed of a few enterprises
that are relatively large by Argentine standards, alongside numerous small and
rather inefficient firms.



- iii -
8.        The main causes of the present low efficiency levels would seem to
be the lack of competition due to high and uneven protection of import substi-
tution industries, lack of control and inefficient management in many state
enterprises supplying basic inputs to industry, and mismanagement of public
finances, which frequently deprived the private sector of necessary funds. The
authorities have reversed past policies and called for:  (1) a gradual opening
up of the economy to international competition by a reduction of import bar-
riers and further promotion of exports; (2) a restructuring of major industries
by merging or eliminating marginal firms in branches which are plagued by
excess capacity; and (3) an improvement in the performance of state enter-
prises, both in the directly productive and in the infrastructure industries.
Broad tariff reductions averaging 25% were implemented in November 1976. Since
tariff reductions for imported inputs were smaller than for final products,
the effective protection of a great number of products decreased even more
than the nominal tariff reduction. Effects of these tariff reductions are now
being analyzed by the Government to consider further action. The restructuring
of the automobile industry and its suppliers represents a major specific task
of the Government. A commission has been formed to analyze possibilities of
decreasing the number of firms and increasing economies of scale. Finally,
recent legislation has changed rules and regulations in the state enterprises,
increasing the regular workweek, providing necessary incentives for different
skills and responsibilities, and gradually decreasing the number of excess
employees.
Employment in Industry
9.        Argentina's most active phase of import substitution did not provide
a significant number of new employment opportunities. Total employment in the
manufacturing sector, which had reached 1.4 million in 1950, expanded by an
annual rate of 1.4% in the following eight years. Between 1958 and 1968 em-
loyment in manufacturing was stagnant. It was only in recent years that labor
absorption in industry grew markedly, averaging 3% p.a. between 1968 and 1975,
,due to a gradual expansion of manufactured exports and a substantial increase
in employment by state enterprises. Due to these factors, the level of un-
employment in the economy has remained at a low level of 4.5%. As part of its
strategy to improve the efficiency of state enterprises, and to improve its
fiscal situation, the Government's goal is to encourage the private sector to
absorb manpower that is now in surplus in the state enterprises. This would be
accomplished by decreasing numerous fringe benefits in state enterprises and
by limiting increases in real wages to those who have contributed to improving
productivity. In the medium term, this shift should be possible as the
recovery under way gains momentum, stimulated by Government policies to expand
manufacturing production, especially of export-oriented industries with high
skilled labor inputs. The proposed project would help create new job opportu-
nities in the industrial sector.
Investment Prospects
10.       Current Government policies have been designed to lay the ground-
work for a more efficient industrial sector and provide the internal and
external monetary stability essential for new investments, higher output, and



- iv -
increasing exports. Potential industrial expansion has been estimated on a
macroeconomic basis and checked against an independent survey of 100 industrial
firms undertaken in November 1976 by the Argentine research foundation FIEL.
The planned growth rate of about 5% per annum in GDP, the expected minimum
growth rate in the medium term, would require annual investments by all sectors
in machinery and equipment of about US$6.0 billion in 1977/78, assuming that
the 13Z share of total investments of machinery and equipment in GDP that
existed during the early 1970s were to continue. On this basis, imports of
capital goods are estimated to reach US$610 million in 1977 and US$710 million
in 1978. The manufacturing sector accounts for about 28% of total investment
but absorbs 55% of investment in imported machinery and equipment. Con-
sequently, investment demand for machinery and equipment by the industrial
sector should be US$1.7 billion per year, while industry's demand for imported
machinery and equipment would average US$360 million annually for 1977 and
1978. The results of the FIEL survey, which covered about 7% of total sales
and about 11% of total investments in the manufacturing sector, are consistent
with the projected investment figures based on macroeconomic analysis. The
demand for medium- and long-term credit is also reflected in the project
pipeline of BANADE which included 143 subprojects at an advanced stage of
consideration at the end of 1976. These projects require US$420 million for
investment financing. In addition, there were another 200 subprojects at a
less advanced stage. These figures indicate that the industrial sector is on
the verge of embarking on a sizable modernization and expansion program.
The Financial Sector - Background
11.       Argentina's relatively well-developed financial system consists of
the Central Bank, more than a hundred commercial banks, two state-owned
development banks, two investment banks, a mortgage and a savings bank, as
well as several credit houses and consumer credit unions. It also has four
stock exchanges. This extensive network has been built over a long period
of time--Argentina already had a relatively mature financial system in the
1940s. During the late forties, however, a long period of deterioration set
-in stemming from inappropriate Government policies. On several occasions,
positive measures were taken to reverse this deterioration, but with limited
success. In recent years, financial intermediation has been particularly
affected by Government policies and the general instability which came to a
head in the explosive inflation of 1975 and early 1976.
12.       Private financial assets and credit to the private sector declined
substantially in 1974 and 1975 because of huge fiscal deficits, low nominal
interest rates, and "nationalization" of deposits (paragraph 14). The market
for long-term corporate securities declined with new share issues in 1974-76
representing a mere 5% of the annual volume reached in the early sixties.
Term credit virtually disappeared. Together with the decline in credit came
the expansion of extra-banking markets and capital flight. By June of 1976,
total domestic credit to the private sector had declined in real terms to only
44% of the December 1974 level. Credit to the industrial sector followed the
same pattern. In fact, by end of December 1975, the real value of commercial
bank credit to the industrial sector had dropped to 73% of the year-end 1974



- v 
amount. To compensate for the sharp reduction and further encouraged by
subsidized forward exchange rate guarantees, companies increasingly turned to
borrowing short-term overseas. This was not sufficient, however, to compen-
sate fully for the decline in local credit since total private sector foreign
borrowings only increased from US$3.4 billion at the end of 1974 to US$3.9
billion by June of 1976.
Measures to Revive the Financial System
13.       After the change in Government in March 1976, the monetary authori-
ties began to introduce important measures to revitalize the financial system,
including the institution of positive real interest rates. Short-term rates
for certificates of deposit have been completely freed and indexed instruments
have been introduced into the market. The Government is also considering
measures to facilitate the gradual lengthening of the assets and liabilities
of the financial system. In the future, after some confidence in the economy
has been restored, it should be possible to develop a market for term debt
based on floating rates or indexed instruments, such as the Government's
indexed bonds (VNAs). At the request of the Government, a recent IFC mission
assisted in studying these matters. Its recommendations are being discussed
with the Government. BANADE, in cooperation with private financial institu-
tions, is also studying ways of developing the domestic capital market.
14.       The Government has recently transformed the system of "nationalized
deposits"--whereby banks were required to accept deposits on behalf of
the Central Bank which then relent funds to financial institutions through
rediscounts and advances--into a fractional reserve requirement system. It
has also freed the resources raised through certificates of deposits and
indexed deposits and abolished special lines of rediscount.
15.       A new law on financial institutions was recently enacted which
reduces the Central Bank's role in matters unrelated to normal central bank-
ing functions while increasing its powers to supervise the orderly operations
of financial intermediaries and to control the money supply. A major innova-
tion of the new law is the ending of specialization of financial institutions.
Commercial banks may now provide a wider spectrum of financial services,
including those hitherto reserved to specialized entities. Since commercial
banks control the bulk of financial assets, this could eventually result in an
overall increase in term financing as some progressive banks move into longer-
term intermediation. Taking into account these developments, BANADE is con-
sidering the formation of consortia with private financial institutions to
help channel additional funds to its projects.
16.       The domestic private credit market is being revived by the policies
the Government is introducing in the financial system. The policy of main-
taining positive real interest rates has already resulted in a major shift
from non-financial to financial savings and could help draw back into the
system funds previously diverted overseas and to the extra-banking market. In
addition, Government measures to reduce the fiscal deficit and to improve the
efficiency and profitability of state enterprises are expected to result in a
gradual reduction of public sector competition for funds.



-vi.-
17.       While the gradual normalization of the economic environment can
be expected to restore savers' confidence and to result in a further expansion
of the credit market, it will probably take some time for a term market to
be established. Whereas short-term funds would be available from private
local and foreign commercial banks and input suppliers, the term credit
needs of industry will not be fully satisfied by the financial system for some
time. Reliance on foreign capital markets to fill this gap completely is
not feasible since only the largest firms have access to foreign borrowing and
since it will take Argentina several years to reestablish its position as a
substantial borrower of long-term capital in international markets.
18.       The proposed Bank loan to BANADE would thus help fill an important
gap in the financing of the Argentine industrial sector directly, and indirectly
through complementary funds mobilized through co-financing arrangements.  It
would be oriented towards the sector's most pressing need--term financing of
productive investments.
PART II - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
19.       In recent years, most industrial firms not only postponed plans for
expansion but also neglected necessary investments for reequipment, because
of the prevailing economic and political instability. As a result, a large
portion of the present equipment and machinery in the industrial sector is
economically obsolete. The new Government has now taken energetic steps
to stimulate priority investments. The industrial sector has responded
positively and has stepped up investment plans for modernization and expan-
sion. The proposed Bank loan to BANADE, as a complement to the Government
policy measures already taken, would help provide scarce resources to finance
the foreign exchange component of fixed asset purchases associated with
specific industrial subprojects.
20.       While providing scarce long-term funds, the proposed Bank loan would
help accomplish the following objectives: (i) to increase the overall effi-
ciency of the industrial sector by helping to finance projects with the
greatest potential for exports and import substitution; (ii) to support the
design and implementation of reforms instituted by BANADE's new management
aimed at rationalizing resource allocation in the industrial sector; (iii) to
provide BANADE with technical assistance to improve its lending to the indus-
trial sector; and (iv) to serve as a catalyst for the mobilization of comple-
mentary external funds from the international capital markets through co-
financing arrangements.
The Institution
21.       BANADE was created in 1970, as successor to Banco Industrial de la
Republica Argentina. Battered by uncontrolled inflation, highly negative
interest rates, and frequent management changes, BANADE became primarily a



- vii -
channel for Government subsidies to state-owned enterprises and autonomous
agencies; its role as a provider of credit to private industry was largely
limited to short-term loans and guarantees of short-term foreign suppliers'
credit. Mobilization of medium- and long-term resources in domestic and
external capital markets was insignificant due to the prevailing economic
situation in Argentina. By early 1976, lending at highly negative interest
rates had almost completely eroded BANADE's equity base, and its lending
operations had come to a virtual standstill.
22.       Between 1973 and 1975, industrial project financing declined sub-
stantially. Short and term loans by BANADE to the manufacturing sector
declined from 64% of total loan approvals in 1973 to 41% in 1975, while the
financing of public sector service entities increased from 11% to 37% of the
total. Medium- and long-term fixed asset financing for private industry
declined from 32% in 1973 to 17% of total loan approvals in 1975, while the
financing of working capital and foreign trade, essentially commercial
banking activities, represented about one-third of total operations during
this period. BANADE used its guarantee authority extensively, mostly for
state enterprises, to cover foreign supplier and financial credits. On the
other hand, through its nationwide branch system, BANADE made a strong effort
to attend to the needs of industry outside of the capital area. In 1975,
approvals of loans to private borrowers located in the interior accounted for
about one-half of the amount and three-fourths of the number of loans approved
for private enterprises.
Organization and Management
23.       The new Government has taken drastic measures to put BANADE on a
sound foundation. The institution was recapitalized and an experienced and
highly qualified management team brought in. During the preparation of this
project, Bank staff have worked closely with the new BANADE management in its
efforts to reform the institution and restore its ability to function as an
effective industrial development bank. Substantial progress has already been
made.  BANADE's objectives have been clearly defined and sound operating
policies have been introduced. A new Charter of Incorporation has been
approved by the Ministry of Economy and will be enacted by Decree-Law prior
to the signing of the proposed loan. In addition, a new Policy Statement has
been approved by BANADE's board of directors. The Charter stresses the
institution's primary role as a term lending development institution, within
the overall industrial promotion policy framework set by the Government. At
the same time, it provides safeguards for operational autonomy, sound evalua-
tion standards, and financial viability.
24.       BANADE's board of directors, composed of distinguished professionals
who come from successful careers in private banking, industry and the Govern-
ment, has moved swiftly to create an organizational structure which emphasizes
project lending. The reorganization has been smoothly implemented and key
positions filled With highly capable staff. Operating departments have been
clearly separated from support departments and have been set up according to
functional lines into industrial, mining, and commercial lending. Capable



- viii -
professionals have been assigned to project evaluation work and additional
staff with potential for this task have been identified. BANADE is well
staffed to undertake its role as the country's leading industrial development
bank, though some additional training is required to support increasing
operations in the future. The proposed loan would consequently support a
comprehensive training program to strengthen and enlarge the core of qualified
project staff.
25.       In anticipation of being called upon to support projects which
require concessionary funds, such as for social purposes, BANADE's Charter
of Incorporation authorizes the establishment of special trust funds. Special
fund operations must be kept completely separate from ordinary operations
and BANADE may not be charged with any losses, expenses, or other liabilities
pertaining to those operations, nor may any of BANADE's resources be trans-
ferred to special funds.
26.       Concerted efforts are being made to upgrade BANADE's capability
to advise the Government in pursuing rational industrial policies. For this
purpose, a new unit, the Division of Economic Studies, has been created to
conduct industrial sector studies, to assist management in its dialogue with
the Government and to help focus BANADE's project promotion efforts. BANADE
is uniquely qualified to provide, at the project level, advice and feedback
to the Government on the impact of overall industrial policies. Through its
participation in the financing of large Government-supported industrial
projects, BANADE will help ensure that adequate measures to improve overall
operational efficiency will be taken. The proposed loan would include a
technical assistance component to help finance consultants for industrial
sector work in view of its importance for both BANADE's operations and
Government policies (paragraph 39).
27.       As in other public institutions, inflation has diminished salaries
in real terms of BANADE's professional staff to a greater extent than in the
private sector. Salary ceilings at the higher levels have recently been
increased significantly. To enable BANADE to retain key staff members and
recruit new qualified staff, the Government plans to require BANADE to make
periodic adjustments as needed.
Project Appraisal and Supervision
28.       While BANADE's technical staff has adequate project evaluation expe-
rience, past appraisals consisted principally of technical, market and finan-
cial analyses, including financial projections. The evaluations did not
always focus on the major project issues nor did they contain financial (FRR)
or economic (ERR) rate of return calculations. Efforts have now been made to
upgrade project evaluation procedures.  BANADE's Policy Statement   requires
that all projects financed be technically, economically and financially viable,
that they be adequately managed, and that they have reasonable market pros-
pects. Steps are being taken to utilize financial and economic rates of
return in the selection and evaluation of projects. BANADE has agreed to
include FRR and ERR calculations for all subprojects utilizing US$500,000 and



- ix -
more of Bank funds. The evaluation of subprojects will also include estimates
of direct employment generation and balance-of-payments impact, particularly
export potential (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
29.       Management is taking steps to improve project supervision.  In
following the execution of the project, Bank staff would focus on progress in
this field over the commitment period of the proposed loan.
Financial Situation and Policies
30.       BANADE's equity capital, which had been eroded from US$87 million
equivalent in 1970 to a mere US$7 million in 1975, was increased in June 1976
by $a52 billion (approximately US$208 million as of mid-1976) in part by a
Government contribution to BANADE's equity of $a20 billion, and in part by
capitalizing $a25 billion of BANADE's liabilities due to the Central Bank
arising from special rediscounts of loans to state enterprises. The Government
has agreed to increase further the equity base of BANADE by capitalizing addi-
tional liabilities to the Central Bank of $a20 billion on account of general
rediscounts. FurthermoDre, at least another $a15 billion of BANADE's debt to
the Central Bank arising from special rediscounts of loans made to state
enterprises will be consolidated in the form of a ten-year bond. These
measures, reinforced by BANADE's new policy of lending at positive real rates
of interest, will ensure a firm and substantial base for BANADE's operations.
31.       BANADE's Policy Statement sets forth operational limitations which
will protect the instiltution from unreasonable financial risks in the future.
These policies cover concentration of assets, equity investments, liquidity
and liability management, financial ratios and management of special funds.
The maximum debt/equity rat:Lo, including contingent liabilities, has been set
at 10 to I (Section 4.0)6 of draft Loan Agreement). This ceiling is reasonable
since BANADE would operate as a mixed commercial and development bank. With
the 1976 increase in capital, BANADE's debt/equity ratio, excluding con-
tingent liabilities, decreased from 36.6:1 to 1.7:1 and is not expected to
surpass 4:1 by year-end 1979. Short-term., medium- and long-term, and guaran-
tee operations would each account for about one-third of liabilities. Since
external auditing has not been fully comprehensive in the past, BANADE has
agreed to arrange for auditing satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.02 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
32.       The principal of peso-denominated medium- and long-term loans are
now being indexed in accordance with the same index applied to Government
readjustable bonds, and bear interest at 3.5% to 7.5% depending on their pur-
pose. Most fixed asset financing for private industry will carry a rate of
7.5%, while loans for certain agroindustrial activities, regional promotion
and basic industries will be made at lower rates. Medium- and long-term loans
granted prior to mid-1975 do not contain an indexing clause; however, BANADE
attempts to convert these to indexed loans whenever possible.



Projected Operations
33.       The trend of the past four years toward increased financing of public
utilities and public sector services would be reversed in favor of financing of
the manufacturing sector in line with BANADE's redefined objectives. In the
future, BANADE will, as required by its Charter, give priority to the medium-
and long-term financial needs of private industry. BANADE's projections for
the years 1977-79 show that lending to the manufacturing sector would increase
from 41% to 64% of total lending, with a corresponding decrease in the financ-
ing of public sector enterprises. Average total annual loan approvals would
increase threefold over the 1976 amount to a level of about $a200 billion
or US$720 million equivalent (all figures for projections are measured in
constant 1976 prices, at an exchange rate of $a277 per US dollar).
34.       As mentioned before, BANADE's past operations with state and state-
related enterprises contained a large subsidy element due to lending at highly
negative interest rates in real terms and to lenient lending practices.
BANADE's Charter and Policy Statement now contain sound policies for future
operations with these enterprises. BANADE's Charter requires that new opera-
tions be conducted in a way which preserves the real value of its capital
base. All projects financed by BANADE, including specifically state enter-
prise projects, must meet sound economic, technical and financial criteria,
as determined by BANADE, and operations must be conducted in a way which
preserves the real value of BANADE's equity. Furthermore, the financing of
infrastructure and public works will be an exception, limited by the Policy
Statement to those which are linked to industrial or mining development
projects. Commercial banking operations will be continued, but will be
oriented to the extent possible toward support of BANADE's industrial develop-
ment objectives. Special emphasis will be given to the credit needs of small-
and medium-size firms in the interior, and also to complementary working
capital financing of large-scale industrial projects supported by BANADE.
Management estimates that during the next two to three years, approximately
one-third of BANADE's loan portfolio will be of a commercial banking nature.
Future Resources
35.       BANADE's future short-term operations will be funded with deposits
of the public, which are expected to increase to $a50 billion by year-end 1979.
This goal appears to be well within BANADE's capabilities, given its nation-
wide system of branches. To finance the projected volume of medium- and
long-term lending operations, BANADE will have to raise $a35 billion (US$126
million) in the local capital market by year-end 1979, which appears feasible
given the Government's efforts to revitalize the financial system.  Foreign
currency liabilities are projected to increase to $a140 billion equivalent
(US$505 million) by year-end 1979. In addition to the proposed Bank loan of
US$100 million, BANADE is negotiating loans of US$30 million from IDB and
US$25 million from the US Eximbank. Short-term foreign exchange liabilities
would amount to about US$145 million. Forecasts indicate the need for an
additional US$205 million of foreign term financing. BANADE's management has
already taken steps to fill this gap. BANADE's standing in international



- xi -
capital markets has improved substantially following its reorganization and
policy changes which have been accomplished with Bank support. As a result,
a London bank has been able to arrange a US$100 million five-year Eurodollar
loan to BANADE at an interest rate which will fluctuate with a margin of 1-3/4%
p.a. above the London Inter-Bank Offer Rate (LIBOR) which would be earmarked
for the financing of six large industrial projects supported by the Government.
These projects are already under implementation and would, consequently,
utilize the loan by July 1977.
Co-financing Operation
36.       In connection with this loan, the Bank has urged BANADE to take the
opportunity to seek cofinancing from private banks to help fill its financing
gap. BANADE has accepted firm offers from two major banks (one European and
one US) to participate in such cofinancing in the amount of US$50 million
each. The cofinancing operations would enable BANADE to obtain a longer
maturity, a longer period of grace and a lower interest rate than BANADE and
prime Argentine borrowers have been able to negotiate so far. However, the
shorter term of the private loan compared to the Bank loan and the differen-
tial in the interest rate structure of subloans made from the private loan and
those made from the Bank loan, make it advisable for BANADE in its financing
of subprojects to mix private funds and Bank funds as may be required. In
order to assist BANADE in matching the amortization of subloans to the amortiza-
tion of its external borrowings as closely as possible, it is proposed that
the Bank agree to permit BANADE to use most of the Bank funds to finance the
later maturities of its loans to subborrowers, while using funds drawn from
the cofinancing commercial banks to cover most of the short-term maturities on
its subloans.
37.       When the cofinancing operation is finalized, amendments to the Loan
Agreement between the Bank and BANADE will be presented to you (i) to include
a cross-default clause referring to the private cofinancing loan in the form
normally employed by the Bank in relation to co-lenders; and (ii) to allow
BANADE to adjust principal payments on Bank subloans for subborrowers utiliz-
ing funds from both the Bank loan and the private banks' loan in the manner
mentioned in paragraph 36. The Bank would also enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding with the agent for the private banks providing for the Bank, if
requested, to act as channel for the service payments on the private banks'
loan and for the Bank and the private banks to exchange information and
consult each other on any matters which might seriously affect the service or
accomplishment of the purposes of their respective loans.
Terms and Conditions of the Proposed Bank Loan and Subloans
38.       The proposed loan of US$100 million to BANADE, with the guarantee
of the Argentine Republic, would be utilized to finance the foreign exchange
component of industrial projects and would include a technical assistance
component of US$250,000. Bank funds would finance the cost of imported equip-
ment and the foreign exchange component of locally manufactured equipment.
BANADE will relend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan in dollars. The



- xii -
exchange risk between the dollar and the currencies repayable to the Bank
would be carried by the Argentine Government. The proposed loan is expected
to be committed by December 31, 1979 and disbursed by December 31, 1981.
Following standard DFC practice, the amortization of the relent portion of
the proposed loan would conform to the aggregate of the amortization schedules
of individual subloans.
39.       The technical assistance component would include:  (a) US$200,000
to help finance about 65 man-months of consultancy services (at about US$4,100
per man-month) for staff training and sectoral studies, and (b) US$50,000 to
help finance the sending of professionals overseas for fellowships and training
programs. The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment of the consultants required under the project would have to be satis-
factory to the Bank (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). This technical
assistance component would be repaid over 15 years, including 3 years of grace.
40.       Subloans would be for up to 15 years (subject to a maximum term
for the Bank loan of 15 years), including a reasonable grace period not to
exceed 3 years. The amortization schedule for subborrowers utilizing funds
from the proposed co-financing operation would be adjusted as indicated in
paragraph 36 above. Unless the Bank otherwise agreed, the maximum amount
of Bank funds that might be utilized for any subproject would not exceed US$6
million (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Subloans would be
denominated in dollars and would carry an interest rate of not less than 11%,
with a commitment fee on the undisbursed balance. The spread of 2.8% p.a.
between BANADE's relending rate of 11% p.a. and the Bank's lending rate of
8.2% p.a. would be adequate to cover subloan administration and supervision
expenses. By September 30, 1978, at the latest, BANADE and the Bank would
exchange views on the appropriateness of the terms and conditions of subloans
(Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). The first four subprojects would
require Bank approval irrespective of subloan amount; a free limit of US$2
million would apply thereafter (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
This arrangement would result in Bank review of a representative sample of
subprojects covering approximately 60% of the loan amount.
Procurement and Disbursement
41.       While BANADE's procurement procedures were not adequate in the past,
BANADE would now satisfy itself that goods and services purchased are suitable
to the projects and are reasonably priced (Section 3.04(a)of the draft Loan
Agreement). It is BANADE's intention to require subborrowers to obtain three
quotations for purchases of most goods and services. Procurement for subproj-
ects would thus be in accordance with standard practice for the Bank's loans
to DFC's. Disbursements for expenditures financed by subloans would cover
100% of foreign expenditures for direct imports, 30% of those for locally
produced equipment, and 60% of those for foreign equipment purchased off-the-
shelf. These percentages represent the estimated foreign exchange component of
these items. Under the technical assistance component, the Bank would finance
75% of total expenditures for consulting services, and 100% of foreign expen-
ditures for fellowships and training abroad.



- xiii -
Prolect Risks and Benefits
42.       Assuming that the present high quality of management is continued
in the Argentine economy and in BANADE itself, the project does not present
any special risks. The existence of a substantial demand for long-term
financing has been established during the preparation of the proposed project.
Argentina's industry needs a major overhaul in view of the large proportion of
economically obsolete equipment and machinery. The proposed Bank loan would
play a decisive role in channelling long-term funds into the industrial
sector, which has been disinvesting in the past few years but is now planning
rather heavy investments to modernize and expand capacity. While we expect
the proposed loan to be committed and disbursed according to schedule, the
actual timing will, to a large extent, depend on the continuation of the
present pace of economic recovery. Proceeds of the Bank loan would be used
principally to finance high priority medium-size subprojects averaging about
US$8 million. It is expected that many would be located in outlying provinces,
thus contributing to the Government's industrial decentralization efforts.






I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A.   Background
Industrial Growth and Cyclical Fluctuations
1.01      Observers of the Argentine economy tend to emphasize the importance
of agriculture and its impact on foreign trade, but in fact industry has been
an increasingly important sector for over half a century. Twenty percent of
the nation's labor force was already engaged in manufacturing at the turn
of the century, a time when the sector's share of total output reached
about 15%. Argentina's industry consisted of a rather large number of small
factories in food processing, printing and publishing, non-metallic minerals
and some traditional branches of the chemical industry. The big surge of
industry occurred during the Great Depression when manufacturing value added
grew 40% faster than GDP. Import substitution behind high tariff walls took
place mainly in the textile industry, which increased its share of total
supply in the domestic market from less than 30% in the 1920s to 50% in the
1940s. Less important to overall industrial output, but even more rapid than
import substitution of textiles was the shift to domestic rubber supply of
which national industry had provided less than 10% before 1930 but was able to
furnish nearly 90% by the end of that decade.
1.02      A second wave of import substitution occurred during World War II
when the industrialized countries were unable to export any significant amount
of their products to Latin America. During that time, Argentina's industry
increased its share of the domestic market from slightly over 75% to 85% as
basic industries in the metallurgic sector were established and the more
sophisticated branches producing electrical machinery and appliances as well
as vehicles and non-electrical machinery started to diversify their production.
It was, however, only after World War II that these industries received active
promotion from the Argentine Government through the use of a combination of
foreign exchange and import controls, high tariffs and special tax incentives
to stimulate rapid growth. Growth in manufactured value added averaged 4.1%
in the fifties, rose to 5.6% in the sixties and accelerated to 7.2% between
1970 and 1974 before it fell by 3.2% in 1975 (Table 1-1).  As a consequence,
the share of manufacturing in total value added rose from 25% in 1950 to 35%
in 1975. The rate of expansion has, however, fluctuated widely, reflecting
the "stop-go" cycle of macro-economic policies. These fluctuations were
particularly pronounced in the last 20 years (Figure 1). Industrial activity
exceeded a growth rate of 10% in six of the years between 1955 and 1975, but
actually declined or was stagnant in five years. It is characteristic that in
each of the five recession periods, Argentina suffered not only from external
balance of payments deficits and acute shortages of foreign exchange but also
from a high rate of inflation. The same strong cyclical fluctuations seen in
industrial output growth were also reflected in the data on overall domestic
investment, investment in machinery and equipment, and corporate profits of
manufacturing enterprises.



-2-
1.03      Fluctuations in industrial output and investment have been marked
in most Latin American economies, yet in Argentina they have been more signifi-
cant than in other major industrializing nations of that continent. 1/ In
spite of the more pronounced cyclical fluctuations, overall growth rates (both
for industry and GDP) were about the same level as the rates of most Latin
American neighbors (Table 1-2). The major reason for the increasing growth
rate of Argentine industry was the dynamic expansion of newly established
industries, such as chemicals, metal products, machinery and transport vehic-
les equipment. They more than doubled their output between 1950 and 1960, and
nearly tripled production between 1960 and 1974/75. Within these subsectors,
output accelerated particularly in synthetics, steel and automotive vehicles
(Table 1-3).
Structural Change and Development of Non-traditional Industrial Exports
1.04      The shift from "traditional" industries, such as food, beverages,
tobacco, textiles, clothing and leather to the above-mentioned "dynamic"
industries is apparent from the statistics. Whereas the share of the first
group declined from 50% of output to less than 30% between 1950 and 1975, the
share of metal products, machinery, and transport vehicles and equipment rose
from 16% to 33.5% during the same years. Argentina became the only country in
Latin America in which the value added of these three "dynamic" branches of
industry surpassed the value added of the "traditional" ones, a fact that
enabled the country to sell substantial amounts of these products to its
neighbors during the 1960s within the framework of special trade agreements
of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA).
1.05      Table 1-4 shows the development of non-traditional manufactured
exports during the last ten years. 2/ Real growth was fairly rapid in the late
sixties and early seventies, averaging 18.6% per year between 1966 and 1970,
and accelerating to an annual 21.6% between 1970 and 1974. Manufactured ex-
ports declined abruptly from their peak volume in 1974 to US$800 million in
1975, but recuperated to US$1,100 million in 1976. Manufacturing's share of
total exports advanced from 8% in 1966 to an average of 23% in the 1970/75
period. Exports as percent of industrial value added, however, remained
modest during the same period, increasing from slightly less than 2% to an
average of 8%. A look at the changing structure of these exports clearly
1/   The coefficient of variation of industrial growth between 1955 and
1973 was 119% for Argentina as compared with 60% for Brazil and 45% for
Colombia.
2/   Argentina has traditionally been an exporter of processed agricultural
goods, such as meat and dairy products, flour and edible oils, wool and,
more recently, sugar; these are normally included in agricultural ex-
ports. There are, however, differences as to the degree of elaboration
which makes an exact computation of the category foodstuff, beverages and
tobacco difficult.



-indicates the dynamic expansion in machinery as well as transport vehicles
and equipment, which averaged 25% in real terms between 1970 and 1976. Less
spectacular was the increase in exports of metal products, mainly iron and
steel. There was substantially slower export growth in the more traditional
branches such as foodstuff, beverages, tobacco, textiles, wood, and printing
and publishing products. The only exception was the exports of leather and
leather products, for which export sales quadrupled between 1970 and 1976,
benefitting from the rapid increase in world demand.
1.06      The rapid export expansion of the "dynamic" industries is also
reflected in the changing shares experienced by the various subsectors during
the past ten years. Exported machinery, transport vehicles and equipment
reached nearly 40% of total manufactured exports in 1974/1976. Metal producing
industries raised their share at a much slower rate, from 9.9% to 13.1%, and
the share of most traditional industries fell from 50% to 25%. This pattern
reflects Argentina's relatively advanced status within the "industrializing"
countries. By selling "product cycle" goods to other LDCs, i.e., mostly to
other Latin American countries, it used its comparative advantage within that
region. Table 1-5 shows that Argentina already exported 47% of its manufac-
tured goods to other LAFTA members in 1968 and that it increased that share
to 53% in 1973. In addition, special agreements with Cuba, Costa Rica, and
Chile, countries which were granted medium- and long-term credit to buy
machinery and road motor vehicles, provided an extra impetus to exports by the
"dynamic" branches of industry. 1/
New Technology and High Cost Production
1.07      The postwar industrialization process in Argentina was made possible
by the introduction of modern technology and knowhow. Since neither was
available in Argentina during the 1940s and 1950s, substantial foreign invest-
ment was required. The first foreign investment law was decreed in 1953, to be
followed by two modifications in the mid-fifties and a wider ranging new law
in 1959 which was combined with an industrial promotion law. The 1958 law
heavily favored foreign private capital inflow into such industries as automo-
biles, petrochemicals, machinery and equipment, as well as metals and chemi-
cals. The annual average flow of foreign private investment into manufacturing
increased from US$15 million in 1954/58 to over US$100 million in 1958/61,
increasing the foreign share of industrial investment from 3% to nearly 10%.
Although the contribution of foreign-owned firms to total manufacturing value
added amounted to less than 20%, foreign investors were dominant in such
1/. Exports of transport vehicles to these three countries amounted to
US$85 million in 1974 and US$120 million in 1975, making up over 50% and
87% of total exports of this important category. For machinery, the
shares were 20% for 1974 and 24% for 1975.



-4-
leading subsectors as chemicals, metals, machinery and transport. In the
early 1970s, US companies alone contributed 25% of value added to paper and
chemicals and over 15% to the largest SITC group, which includes metal pro-
ducts, machinery and transport vehicles.
1.08      Due to the introduction of new technology and heavy infusion of
capital, labor productivity experienced substantial annual increases averaging
3.5% in the 1950s, 4.3% in the 1960s and 3.9% in the early 1970s. Overall,
productivity of a specific sector or activity is, however, also determined by
the scarce factor (capital) and its uses. Although capital stock and compar-
able cost data are not available, some indication of the rather inefficient
use of capital during the sixties is provided by the data of Table 1-7, which
show that utilization of industrial firms' capital stock amounted to only
66% in 1965, a figure which was still above the utilization rates in 1963 and
1964. There was a significant improvement in industry's overall capacity
utilization in the seventies, before the recession in late 1975 set in,
but even during the strong growth years, several subsectors such as bever-
ages, electrical appliances, and steel continued to suffer from excess
capacity.
1.09      International price comparisons which were undertaken in the mid-
sixties and the early seventies also indicate the relative inefficiency of
Argentine industry. In 1965 it was found that prices for intermediate goods
were from two to seven times higher in Argentina than in world markets.
Anhydrous ammonia, for example, was 7.4 times as expensive as in the United
States. Sulfuric acid was twice, three times, and 1.5 times as expensive as
in the United States, West Germany and Japan, respectively. Methanol, ethyl
alcohol, kerosine and urea were all between 1.5 times and four times more
expensive in Argentina than in the US, and 1.8 times as eqpensive as in Japan.
While domestic and international price differentials were not as great for
capital goods as for intermediate goods, they were, nonetheless, substantial.
Machine tools were between 1.3 and 1.4 times more costly in Argentina than in
world markets; metal and metal products (steel billets and slabs, seamless
pipes, reinforcing bars, etc.) were between 1.2 and 1.7 times more expensive
in Argentina; and automobile prices were an average of 2.2 times higher in
Argentina. Price differentials were somewhat smaller in 1969-70. Table 1-8
shows that the ratio was still above 2:1 for several chemical products,
synthetics, automobiles, and a number of products in the electrical and
non-electrical machinery industries.
Industrial Employment
1.10      Argentina's most active phase of import substitution did not provide
a significant number of new employment opportunities. Total employment in the
manufacturing sector, which had reached 1.4 million in 1950, expanded by an
annual rate of 1.4% in the following eight years. Between 1958 and 1968
increases were matched by declines so that the net gain was zero. It has only
been in recent years that labor absorption by industry grew markedly, aver-
aging 3% p.a. between 1968 and 1975. In spite of its much more rapid growth
in output, the share of employment generated by the "dynamic" industries



-5-
remained rather constant at 38% between 1958 and 1975 (Table 1-6). Because of
the limited employment opportunities in the newly established industries,
Argentina has relied increasingly on the service sector to absorb a major
proportion of the new labor force. Whereas the share of manufacturing employ-
ment fell from 22.8% to 19.7% between 1950 and 1970, services raised its
contribution from 45.4% to 57.2%.
B.   Industrial Issues and Policies
1.11      In spite of a fairly rapid growth rate and continuous diversifica-
tion, as shown in the previous paragraphs the Argentine manufacturing sector
has been confronted with three major inter-related problems: (i) a substan-
tial degree of instability, as characterized by rapid swings from strong
expansion to sharp contraction; (ii) a high cost structure, as reflected in
relatively high prices and under-utilization of capital; and (iii) a slow
labor absorption rate, which has left the manufacturing sector's employment
share unchanged since the early postwar period.
Instability, Import Dependence and Macroeconomic Policies
1.12      A comparison between industrial and overall economic growth rates
on the one hand and Argentina's balance of payments on the other shows the
close link between industrial activities and the behavior of exports and
foreign exchange reserves. Imports of intermediate and capital goods expanded
rapidly when industrial output advanced at a rapid pace, but had to be reduced
when exports and the earnings of foreign exchange were not able to keep pace.
Although one might expect that an import substitution policy would decrease
import dependence, this has not been the case. As imports have been pro-
gressively compressed to a level where they supply less than 10% of total
industrial output, only those items remained which cannot be produced in
Argentina. Yet they are essential inputs to the industrial sector. The
result is that dependence on imports in a qualitative sense increased since a
much higher proportion of total imports can be classified as essential inputs
for use in local manufacturing. The importance of intermediate goods in total
imports increased from 32% in 1910 to 52% in 1960 and 70% in 1974-75. These
imports constitute over one-seventh of total purchased inputs used by the
industrial sector and are especially important in the newly established,
rapidly expanding intermediate and capital goods industries, such as rubber,
chemicals, metal products, machinery and equipment. Laws requiring increasing
purchases from nationals have helped to stimulate domestic supply, particu-
larly for automobiles, but many of these suppliers in turn rely on imported
inputs. Consequently, industrial growth has been severely hampered each time
agricultural exports grew at too slow a pace and foreign exchange became
scarce.
The Shift from Import Substitution to Export Diversification
1.13      In the early sixties it became clear that import substitution made
it more difficult to manage the Argentine economy. Not only did industrial



- 6 -
production become more vulnerable to fluctuations in the level of export
earnings, but output and employment also became more sensitive to shifts in
domestic aggregate demand. Since high-cost import substitutes were sold
almost exclusively to domestic customers, both industrialists and policy-
makers realized that high and stable growth rates could not be achieved
without engaging in a program of export diversification. In 1962 several
fiscal measures, such as "drawbacks" and rebates on taxes, as well as special
lines of credit at subsidized rates of interest, were introduced. Because of
an erratic exchange rate policy, however, these measures had little effect
on industrial exports during the early years of the export diversification
drive. 1/
1.14      Significant strides were made in industrial export promotion only
beginning with 1967-68 when the authorities simplified the exchange rate
system, extended the "drawbacks," instituted a tax refund incentive of 10%
of the value of exports and negotiated new preference agreements with the
LAFTA partners. These measures were further bolstered by increased export
credit facilities by the Central Bank and by establishment of an export
insurance scheme fashioned after similar systems prevailing in industrialized
countries. This set of incentives proved quite effective in promoting indus-
trial exports. After 1970 exchange rate adjustments for non-traditional
industrial exports barely compensated for the loss of international purchasing
power of the Argentine peso (Table 1-10). Fiscal incentives, however, rose by
nearly 200% within four years and export credit more than quadrupled (Table 1-
9), leading to increasing export incentives which rose from less than 15% to
over one-third of the value of non-traditional manufacturing exports earnings
in 1974.
New Government Policies to Stabilize and Stimulate Foreign Exchange Earnings
1.15      The current government is aware that in order to lessen the foreign
exchange constraint industry has to export continuously, irrespective of the
domestic demand situation. In addition to this, it is expected that the
competition in international markets will contribute to improve the quality
of Argentine manufacturing products as well as lower per unit costs in cases
where large-scale production is required. Consequently, the Central Bank
unified the exchange rate in late 1976 and has followed a policy of a "crawl-
ing peg" since then. On the other hand, the government authorities have
reviewed the fiscal and monetary incentives granted to industrial exporters in
recent years and decided to increase the interest rate substantially. In a
situation where the fiscal deficit is considered to be the most serious
1/   Regression between industrial exports and the "real effective exchange
rate," i.e., the nominal exchange rate adjusted for incentives, and the
difference between domestic and international inflation, was insignifi-
cant during the years 1962-1968. However, two other variables, excess
capacity and special LAFTA agreements, were important, implying marginal
cost pricing in the first case and export into protected markets in the
second.



- 7 -
obstacle to a future stable expansion of the Argentine economy, fiscal incen-
tives will be reviewed and reduced gradually as industry becomes more competi-
tive. Since it is expected that Argentina will continue to export the largest
part of its manufactured products to its Latin American neighbors, the new
government has been actively engaged in negotiating new trade agreements with
Brazil, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay and Venezuela. Recent discussions with the
Cuban government have also succeeded in resuming exports to that country,
which had stopped its imports in 1976 because of rapidly falling sugar prices.
1.16      At the same time, the government has adopted a series of general
economic policies which aim at increasing and stabilizing the inflow of
foreign exchange and reducing the rate of domestic inflation. The stimulation
of traditional agricultural exports through more realistic exchange rates and
abolition of export taxes on the one hand, and the new foreign investment
law on the other, were effective in raising exports rapidly in 1976. The
inflow of foreign capital will very much depend on the improvement in monetary
and economic stability of the Argentine economy. These policies are consis-
tent with the government's aim of reducing the fiscal deficit from 8% in 1976
to 4% of GDP in 1977 in order to lessen the expansion of money supply and with
it inflationary pressures in the Argentine economy. Since foreign exchange
crises have been intimately connected with monetary disequilibrium within the
Argentine economy in the past, it is clear that stabilization of foreign
exchange earnings is also a function of stabilization of the internal price
level.
Major Causes of Industry's Efficiency Problems
1.17      The level of efficiency and the extent of competitiveness of Argen-
tine industry varies substantially from sector to sector. Although generali-
zations are difficult to make, it is apparent that the new "dynamic" indus-
tries tend to be technically efficient but relatively high-cost producers,
while the "traditional" industries are in the majority of cases relatively
inefficient in a technical sense but nevertheless produce at lower
costs compared with international producers. The reasons for this paradox are
manyfold, but a few distinctive characteristics stand out. First, many of the
new industries producing intermediate, capital and durable consumer goods
require large markets in order to produce at minimum average costs, important
examples being steel, automobiles, tires, basic chemicals, and a number of
electrical appliances. Although Argentina offered a large and prosperous
market in relation to most other Latin American contries, too many firms
entered at the same time, each of which was not able to reach large-scale
production common in developed countries. On the other hand, the smaller
traditional industries have been able to use the skilled labor force much more
in.tensively without facing the strong power of organized labor in big industry.
A second important reason for the cost differential is the fact that most of
the "traditional" industries are receiving their inputs from the "efficient"
agricultural sector, whereas the modern industries are linked to the inter-
mediate and basic industries of Argentina, which are high-cost producers,
mainly because of lack of control and inefficient management. In all cases,
the import substitution policies of past governments have played a dominant



-8-
part in determining the structure and problems of technical and economic
efficiency and it is therefore important to discuss the impact of these
policies in some detail.
1.18      Since "infant" industries are by definition inexperienced in produc-
tion, marketing and finance, it is generally agreed that they should be
protected against foreign competition until they have been able to expand
their markets, improve their production techniques, and lower their average
costs. In almost all Latin American countries in general, and in Argentina as
the first industrializing country in particular, protection has, however,
continued to play an important role long after the industries have been
established. This has been effected not only through high tariffs but also
with the help of import restrictions, quotas, prohibitions, differential
exchange rates and prior deposits, all of which increased the price of im-
ported goods competing with national products. Moreover, necessary inputs and
capital goods not produced at home could be imported at very low tariff rates
or were even exempted from paying any import duty. "Effective" protection has
become am important indicator to measure both the high protection from com-
peting imports and the low protection for imported intermediate and capital
goods needed in the production process. In Argentina's case, several studies
analyzing postwar protection through 1969 came to very similar conclusions.
Overall effective protection was high (over 140%), with capital goods aver-
aging 200%, intermediate goods 150%, and nondurable consumer goods less than
100%. In addition, protection was uneven and granted not according to the
degree of development and age of each industry but to the degree of ineffi-
ciency and the political pressure the sector could exert on policy makers.
Cotton yarn and textiles, for example, were protected by tariffs of 80% and
150%, respectively, until 1976, whereas their major inputs had tariffs of 35%
and 75%, respectively.  Consumer goods, such as household appliances and
clothing, were protected by even higher rates of 100% and 200%. Although
protection in intermediate goods was lower, it was often more effective
because of import quotas and other regulations. This was true for steel and
other basic metals produced in Argentina as well as basic chemicals and
petrochemicals.
1.19      Macroeconomic management in the past has impaired stable and con-
tinuous growth of industries. The "stop-go" character of fiscal, monetary
and foreign exchange policies and the concurrent eruption of high rates of
inflation have likewise affected management in an unproductive way. Many
industrial enterprises were unable to reinvest because depreciation principles
for tax purposes did not take into consideration the inflationary erosion of
the historic value of machinery and equipment. When inflation increased in
the early seventies and got out of control in 1975, industrial managers
increasingly devoted more time to financial than to technical and marketing
considerations. Special attention was paid to management of tax payments.
The rapid decline in tax revenue was directly related to the firms' ability to
delay payments. These tactics became commonplace because not only were
long-term funds practically nonexistent during the last few years, even
short-term funds decreased in real terms with only the large firms being able
to borrow abroad.



- 9 -
1.20      Another, more indirect effect of government action on industrial
costs is connected with the problem of state enterprises. Similar to the
experience in other Latin American countries, manufacturers of capital and
durable consumer goods in Argentina have complained about the high costs of
domestically produced industrial inputs, especially basic metals and petro-
chemicals. In 1976, basic steel products were reported to be over 30%-50%
more expensive than equivalent imports. There are a number of reasons for
this problem, some of which may not be easily removed in the short run.
First, there is the relatively small-scale of production, which has not
increased significantly with industry's move into some foreign markets.
Secondly, in the case of steel, Argentina depends on imported iron ore and
coal. Although this does not need to impede low-cost production, as the
example of Japan shows, the fact that the major steel mill is located at a
site which cannot be reached by modern large freighters of over 20,000 tons,
leads to problems of transshipment and additional costs. Thirdly, techno-
logical innovation on the international level has been rapid, especially in
chemicals and petrochemicals. The transfer of the new knowhow and its adapta-
tion to Argentine industry is costly. Fourth, and probably most important,
there have been gross operational inefficiencies and problems in quality
control in the state enterprises dominating the basic industries.
1.21      A further cause of the high price structure of many industries is
the "dualistic" character of their composition. Specific studies on such
industries as agricultural machinery, tools, and electrical appliances have
pointed out that these industries are composed of a few relatively big and
well-managed firms and a large number of small and rather inefficient firms,
most of which will not be able to redirect their production efforts toward
exports unless they join forces with stronger competitors.
Policies to Improve Efficiency of the Industrial Sector
1.22      Since most of the efficiency problems seem to stem from past poli-
cies, the new government expects to solve them by first reversing these
policies. The remedies called for would be: (1) a gradual opening of the
economy to international competition by a reduction of import barriers and
further promotion of exports; (2) a restructuring of major industries by
merging or eliminating marginal firms in branches which are plagued by excess
capacity; (3) an improvement in the performance of state enterprises, both in
the directly productive and in the infrastructure sectors. The present
government has acted in all three areas, which should eventually not only
improve the performance of Argentine industry but also raise incomes directly
and indirectly throughout the economy.
1.23      One of the first steps of the new government in mid-1976 was to
dismantle import controls. Secondly, a decrease of nearly 4,000 out of 7,600
tariff items was decreed in November 1976. The overall tariff reduction was
about 25%, with particular emphasis on the capital goods sector in which rates
of over 1,700 items were cut from 80% and 90%, to 60%. Since tariff reduc-
tions for imported inputs were smaller than for final products, "effective"
protection of a great number of products decreased even more than nominal



- 10 -
protection. A current study by the Central Bank, which has been commissioned
by the Ministry of Economy, is assessing the impact of the tariff reductions
on Argentine industry. With the help of that analysis, it should be possible
to evaluate further steps in changing the incentive system so that the gradual
opening up of the industrial sector can be accomplished in an orderly fashion.
The sudden tariff change in 1976 had led to criticism in many industries which
saw their chances of survival threatened, but it seems that the private
industrial sector as a whole is willing to adjust to a higher degree of
competition if the public sector efficiency can be raised likewise.
1.24      Restructuring whole industry groups is a long-term, tedious and
difficult task. Since November 1976, a mixed public and private commission
has been studying the possibility of consolidating the automobile sector. It
is understood that the current number of firms (over 10) cannot survive in a
market which only absorbs about 250,000 cars during years of relatively high
growth and prosperity. 1/ Since the automobile industry is not only an impor-
tant contributor to overall output but also to total industrial employment,
absorbing over 20% of the industrial labor force either directly or indi-
rectly, the task of consolidation will be difficult to accomplish.
1.25      The most urgent, but also most arduous, problem which will affect
not only the industrial sector, is improving the performance of state enter-
prises. In 1976, fiscal recovery was the dominant issue. Consequently,
a start has been made by adjusting public sector prices, ranging from power
rates to gasoline prices. While these corrections improved the financial
situation of most entities, it increased consumer prices directly and indirec-
tly, by raising the cost of production. The costs of the public enterprises
were held down by adjusting only part of wages to the inflation in 1976. This
policy, however, cannot be continued for a prolonged period. Therefore the
government has started to increase working hours and working requirements for
certain levels of occupation. The crucial steps of slowly transferring a
large number of the underemployed public employees to the private sector or
into retirement is expected to be taken during the second part of 1977 and
1978 when the economy should recuperate fully and the fiscal situation may
permit more generous payment for those who retire earlier. The initial out-
lays should be largely compensated by the long-run savings in public sector
salaries.
1.26      While the government's interest is clearly to promote a more compe-
titive market system, in which increased competition should benefit the
efficient producer and the consumer, other objectives are currently discussed
within the framework of the new Industrial Promotion Law. The two major goals
which may possibly conflict with the previous set of priorities are regional
decentralization and support of basic industry, which is believed to be of
strategic importance to the security of the country. In the latter category,
1/   During the recession year 1976, the government granted special tax
and foreign exchange incentives and likewise decreased steel prices to
lower input costs for automobile exports.



- 11 -
Argentina plans to complete its petrochemical complex in Bahia Blanca and to
double the capacity of its steel mill in San Nicolas as well as to lay the
groundwork for a second government-owned steel plant. The expansion plans of
SOMISA have been recently studied by a team of Japanese technicians and it can
be expected that productivity and financial management will improve when the
second blast furnace comes into production in June 1977. As for decentraliza-
tion, the previous policies did correctly attempt to redress the regional
imbalance of industrial production, over 85% of which is located along the La
Plata River between Buenos Aires and Santa Fe, as well as in Cordoba. In the
past, however, the benefits of regional development have not been compared
with the costs of fiscal and monetary incentives which were granted to induce
firms to expand production in the remote provinces. The present government
intends to establish annual quotas on the amount of incentives to be granted
under the Industrial Promotion Law. The establishment of maximum sums for
incentives would induce the setting of priorities to ensure that only deserving
projects would be supported.
Employment Issues in Industry and Policy Options
1.27      The rather slow absorption of labor into the industrial sector is
basically caused by the same problems which have prevented rapid employment
increases in other countries which have concentrated on import substitution
policies for a long time. First, new industries and technologies introduced
were relatively capital intensive, and whatever gains made by the opening up
of new job opportunities were dampened by the decline of employment opportun-
ities in small-scale industry. Secondly, the government induced an even wider
use of capital by subsidizing interest rates and overvaluating the foreign
exchange rate for capital goods. In spite of the power of labor unions, real
industrial wages increased less than productivity in the Argentine economy,
but on the whole, labor legislation with its inflexible rules and substantial
fringe benefits did not encourage labor intensive production. These two
fundamental causes were certainly of great importance between 1958 and 1968.
It remains to explain the sudden increase of industrial employment after 1968,
which lasted over six years and has contributed to the lowering of the unem-
ployment rate in major urban centers to less than 3% during the strong expan-
sion years (1971/72). The stability of macroeconomic policies between 1966
and 1969 and the gradual expansion of manufactured exports contributed to the
first phase of employment increases. During the early 1970s, two "populist"
measures became more important. On the one hand, aggregate consumption
expanded rapidly, partly due to liberal wage increases and partly due to the
extraordinary windfall gains from rapid increase in export prices. On the
other hand, state enterprises experienced an amazing growth in their payrolls;
public firms such as the petroleum company, the steel factory, the power and
gas company, and other state enterprises hired over 160,000 employees between
1970 and 1975, an increase of 56% within four years.
1.28      Clearly, the last two measures are inconsistent with the current
government philosophy of raising the efficiency of public enterprises and
increasing the savings coefficient in the public and private sectors to facili-
tate future growth. During the recession year 1976 the authorities did not



- 12 -
engage in releasing the excess labor force of government-owned enterprises and
they asked the private firms to keep as many workers as possible on the
payrolls. Due to this policy, the level of unemployment has remained low and
is currently estimated at only 4.5% for the entire country. The expectation
of the policy makers is that with recovery under way excess labor will find
new job opportunities in industry and other services. In the short run
employment will probably not increase. On the other hand, with the growth of
industrial production in the years to come, particularly in the more labor-
intensive "traditional" branches and in the mechanical engineering subsector,
employment expansion over the medium and long run can contribute to increasing
the shift of the employment structure toward those working in directly pro-
ductive activities, which should make it possible to raise living standards
for the whole population without causing an inflationary upsurge. The pro-
posed loan would help in creating productive job opportunities.
C.   Prospects and Project Implications
1.29      After several years of strong and continuous expansion, industrial
development came to a grinding halt in 1975 and the recovery in major sectors
has started only recently. The bottom of the recession was reached in mid-
1976, with a number of branches experiencing increasing sales since September
1976. This was particularly true for those industries supplying the agricul-
tural sector, which reacted rapidly to the new price policies of the govern-
ment. Output increased for agricultural machinery, tractors and trucks, which
in turn had a favorable impact on the supplier industries of these firms.
Similarly, growth resumed in the food processing industries, such as flour
milling, oilseed refining, and dairy production. On the other hand, the
leading subsectors, such as metals, passenger cars, and chemicals, were still
working well below capacity at the end of 1976 and the beginning of 1977.
Growth. Investment, and Exports
1.30      Total investment in machinery and equipment was stagnant in 1974 and
1975, mainly because of price controls and uncertainties arising from in-
creased political instability. Although overall investment in industry has
suffered in the past five years from the unstable political and economic
situation, some sectors continued to invest until 1974 and others have already
resumed investing in 1976. This seems to be true for paper and pulp, steel
and some textiles. On the other hand, most consumer goods and capital goods
industries have experienced serious declines in investment. If, in a macro-
economic context, an annual growth of 4-5% were to be achieved and the 13%
share of total investment of machinery and equipment in GDP that existed
during the early 1970s were to continue, annual investment by all sectors in
machinery and equipment in 1977/78 would be US$6.2 billion. Similarly,
imports of capital goods are estimated to reach US$610 million in 1977 and
US$710 million in 1978. The manufacturing sector accounts for about 28% of
total investment, but it absorbs 55% of investment in imported machinery and



- 13 -
equipment. Consequently, investment demand for machinery and equipment by
the industrial sector should be US$1.7 billion per year and industry's demand
for imported machinery and equipment would average US$360 million annually for
1977 and 1978. The proposed Bank loan of US$iOC million equivalent, amounting
to 14% of two years' capital goods imports by industry and 2.9% of two years
industrial investment, would cover only a relatively small portion of the
capital requirements of industry. Bank funds channeled to industrial firms by
BANADE would finance the foreign exchange costs of both imported and domes-
tically produced machinery and equipment. The foreign exchange costs of
domestically produced capital goods is estimated to amount to between 30% and
40% of total costs.
1.31      Argentina has returned to economic order only since March 1976
and investment plans of private firms are still tentative. A change in the
attitude of entrepreneurs about sales and investment prospects, however, has
been registered in periodic industrial surveys undertaken by the research
foundation FIEL during 1976 and by a special study made by FIEL to ascertain
industrial investment plans over the period 1977-1980. The FIEL study covered
100 major manufacturing firms which represent about 7% of total sales and
about 11% of total investments in the manufacturing sector. The study shows
that fixed investment by the manufacturing sector during 1977 would reach
about US$1.6 billion. Of this fixed investment, about US$900 million would be
for machinery and equipment. The FIEL study anticipates that imports of
machinery and equipment in 1977 would reach about US$320 million. These
figures are consistent with the two-year estimates of investments obtained
from overall macroeconomic parameters, presented in paragraph 1.30 above.
Interviews with industrial firms in Buenos Aires and the interior confirmed
the findings of the FIEL investigations.
1.32      Industrial enterprises included in the survey are expected to
increase substantially output and investments. Total sales in real terms were
forecast to rise by 30% in 1977 over 1976, which represents a 12% increase
over 1975. The breakdown into eight different industrial groups in Table 1-13
shows that real growth is expected by all industries to proceed at least by
about 20% in 1977, with steel and metalmechanical industries being the lead-
ing branches. Business also expects exports to increase rapidly; a 28% gain
is forecast for 1977 over 1976 export sales. Furthermore, the share of indus-
trial sales abroad to total sales would remain nearly constant at about 6.5%,
after reaching an all-time low of 2.7% in 1975. Many firms which had increased
their exports in 1976 indicated that they would concentrate increasingly on
the domestic market as the current recession eases, but that they expected to
maintain an active export market in order to provide stability to their
operations. The strongest expansion in exports is expected to occur in the
textiles and leather industries, where the sampled firms plan to raise their
export-output share from 3.0% to 6.4%. In all other branches, exports are
expected to experience a similar growth as output so that the shares would
remain fairly constant.



- 14 -
1.33      Total investment plans of the industrial firms surveyed by FIEL
are 75% higher than in 1976, and 46% higher than in 1975. The investment
plans of the steel, paper, petroleum and chemical industries surveyed by FIEL
were quite firm, if not under way, while the investment plans of the consumer
and construction industries appeared to be more tentative. Investment needs
differ from industry to industry. Firms in the chemical and steel industry
plan large investments for expanding capacity. Large investment outlays are
also expected in the transport vehicles and equipment and miscellaneous indus-
tries, but in both of these branches replacement of obsolete equipment would
absorb over 25% of capital formation in 1977. The need to re-equip outdated
machinery is also strong in the metal-working industry and even more urgent in
the traditional branches such as textiles and leather, non-metallic minerals,
food, beverages and tobacco. Imported machinery and equipment is expected to
account for about 35% of all required machinery and equipment. Except for the
textile and leather industries, which expect to spend 50% of total investments
on imported machinery and equipment, the import component of investment for
most industries is expected to fall close to the overall average of 35%.
1.34      Forecasts beyond 1977 were obtained from only 32 firms in the FIEL
survey. In general, the "dynamic" industries (chemicals, transport equipment
and vehicles) are again forecasting more rapid growth than the traditional
industries during 1978/77, although the gap is smaller than during the late
1960s. The expected growth rate in the textile and leather industries,
together with the chemical and transport industries, exceed the forecast
average growth rate of industry (Table 1-14). Taken together, the surveyed
firms indicate that in 1978 and 1979 the real level of fixed investments would
increase at about 6% over the level expected to be achieved in 1977.
1.35      The substantial demand for new investment shown by the FIEL study is
reflected in the large size of the pipeline of subprojects currently being
reviewed by BANADE; i.e., 143 subprojects at an advanced stage of considera-
tion requiring investments of about US$420 million, plus another 200 subproj-
ects at a less advanced stage. As the next chapter will show, BANADE, with
the financial support to be given by the proposed loan, would be instrumental
in providing the long-term financing required for the envisaged investments.



ARCENTINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - BANCO NACIONAL DE 1ESAR=OLLO
%6 Choogtfl                                          FLUCTUATiONS OF INDUSTRIAL GROWTH
(X) AND RATES OF RETURN (Y) IN INDUSTRY                                                    g RI
11
x~~~~~~~~~~~~
-10  _                         T                         _                                                                                      6
I  t  I~~~I 
It355   be,   57    58    59    1960    61    62    63    64    65           66    67    Gs       69    1970    71     72      73    74    i5
Wnrld 6:.nk-17313



ARGENt'I'[NA
INDIJSTRIAL CREITT PIR)JEC:T - BANCO NACIONAL. DE DESARROLIo
Table 1-1:   Growth and Structure of Value added in Manufacturing
Years                ISIC*            31             32          33            34               35            36             37               38            39            Total
Millioni 1960 Pesos
t950                                 502.9         458.1        48.0          105.2            224.8         104.5           43.8           305.4          131.0          1,923.7
1960                                 574.7         505.1         56.6         122.8           422.5          121.4           117.2          810.1          147.5          2,878.0
1965                                 706.3         554.1         73.6         170.5           662.0          154.6           213.7        1,176.3          171.0          3,882.1
1970                                 881.0         581.4         83.0         217.2            926.5         238.9           289.8        1,549.()         211.1          4,977.9
1974                               1,052.3         77(0.1        94.3         264.5         1,212.9          252.0           427.8        2,254.7          243.6          6,571.7
1975                               1,016.9         804.8         82.4         262.1         1,210.2          253.6           419.2        2,073.7          235.4          6,358.3
Struictuire in 7.
1950                                  26.1           23.8         2.5           5.5             11.7           5.4             2.3            15.9           6.8            100.0
1960                                  20.0           17.6         1.8           4.3             14.7           4.2             4.1            28.2           5.1            100.0
1965                                  18.2           14.3         1.9           4.4             17.1           4.0             5.4            30.3           4.4            100.0
1970                                  17.7           11.7         1.6           4.5             18.6           4.8             5.8            31.1           4.2            100.0
1974/5                                16.0           12.2         1.4           4.1             18.8           3.7             6.6            33.5           3.7            100.0
Annual Crowth in
1950-60                                1.4            1.0         1.7           1.5              6.5           1.5            10.3            10.2           1.2              4.1
1960-65                                4.2            1.9         5.4           6.8              9.4           4.9            12.5             7.7           3.0              6.2
L965-70                                4.5           1.(          2.4           5.0              6.9           9.1             6.5            5.6            4.3              5.1
1970-75                                2.9            6.7        -0.1           3.8              5.5           1.2             7.7             6.0           2.2              5.0
1950-75                                2.9            2.3         2.2           3.7              7.0           3.6             9.5             8.0           2.4              4.9
Er
k 31 fuod, beverages & tobacco; 32 textiles & wearing apparel; 33 wood & wood prodticts; 34 paper, printing & piublishing; 35 chemicals; petroleuim, ruhher & plastics; .
36 non-metallic minerals; 37 basic metals; 38 metallic products, machinery & transport equipment; 39 others.
Source:  Central Banik of Argentina:  Sistema de cuentas del producto e ingresso de fa Argentina, 1975, and uinpublished data.



- 17 -                        TABLE 1-2
ARGENTINA
IITLUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
Table 1-2: Growth Rates and Industry Shares of GDP in Selected
Latin American Countries (in %)
ANNUAL GROWTH RATES-/
Real GDP                             Real Industrial Value Added
1960-70      1970-73                      1960-70        1970-73
Argentina                4.3          7.5                          5.6              7.2
Brazil                   6.0         11.0                          7.3            11.5
Chile                    4.4          1.6                          5.4             3.7
Colombia                 5.2          6.6                          6.0             8.9
Mexico                   7.0          6.1                          9.0              6.4
Peru                     5.3          6.1                          6.3             4.3
Venezuela                5.9          4.2                          7.3             6.4
2/
INDUSTRIAL VALUE ADDED SHARE OF GDP-
1960                1970                  1973
Argentina                            31.1                35.3                  34.8
Brazil                              21.6                 24.3                  24.6
Colombia                            17.9                 19.2                  20.5
Ecuador                             15.6                 17.1                  17.4
Mexico                               22.6                27.0                  25.3
Peru     3/                         17.2                 19.0                  18.4
Venezuela-                           14.2                16.2                  17.3
(19.3)              (20.1)                (20.5)
United States                        27.4                28.5                  25.3
United Kingdom                       32.2                28.3                  27.1
1/ In 1970 prices.
2/ At 1963 prices; 1973 shares at current prices.
3/ Figures in brackets indicate industrial share of GDP exclusive of the petroleum
sector.
Source: UCN, Yearbook of National Accounts Statistics, and Monthlv Bulletin of
Statistics; 1DB, Annual Reports.



ARGENTINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
Table 1-3: Industrial Production
Indices 1950-1975
1950      1955        1960        1965          1970          1974         1975
ISIC           INDUSTRY
"Traditional" Industries
31     Food, beverages, tobacco                      87.5      93.2        100        122.9         153.3         183.0        176.9
32     Textiles, Clothing, Leather                   90.7      99.2        100        109.6         115.1          152.2       159.3
33     Wood Products (incl. furniture)               84.7     107.4        100        129.9         146.5         166.6        145.6
34     Paper, printing, publishing                   85.7      96.2        100        138.9         176.9         215.4         213.4
36     Non-metallic minerals                         86.1      87.4        100        127.3         196.8         207.6         208.9
"Growth" Industries
35     Chemicals                                     53.2      76.6        100        156.7         219.3          287.1        286.4
Industrial Chemicals                      54.6       87.8        100       258.3          358.4         545.51/       n.a.
Synthetics & Plastics                     48.3       69.2        100       402.1         477.7          753.0        780.0
Petroleum derivatives                    136.6      161.6        100       161.0         415.5          578.3        578.3
37     Basic Metals                                  37.4       73.9       100        180.2         247.2          364.6        357.7
Iron & Steel                              31.1       72.0        100        199.9         281.7         426.1        420.1
38     Metals, Machinery, Transport Equipment    37.7           56.8       100        145.2          191.2         278.3        256.0
Motors                                    12.1       27 0        100        469.6         781.3       2,925.3      2,565.5
Automotive vehicles                       23.8       31.7        100        200.8         271.9         441.7        359.5
Radio and T.V.                            10.2       19.7        100        113.2         123.1         158.0        170.9
Electric household goods                  25.8       78.1        100        109.3         133.3         152.6        146.3
Agricultural machinery & equipment        15.7       44.4        100         88.8          90.2         144.8        123.2
TOTAL INDEX                      66.8       81.1        100        134.5         173.0          228.3        220.9
Source:  Central Bank of Argentina:  Sistema de cuentas del producto e ingresso de la Argentina, 1975.
1/ 1973.
_                                                                                                       9,I-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
Table 1-4:   Exports of Manufactured Products, 1960-1975
(Value of Exports in Millions of UIS Dollars)
Structure of Exports         Growth of Expot
1965         1966          1970           1971          1972          1973          1974          1975          1976               1965c66re       974_ o96r-ow               197 Ep 76
Food, Beverage, Tobacco               24.7          47.1          95.1         106.4          95.9         150.8         189.4          94.3          154.1                30.5          14.4          31.0          10.2
Textiles and Wearing Apparel           8.9           9.8          17.1          16.5          27.5          78.4          72.4          21.7          44.0                  7.9           4.5          14.0          20.8
Textile Products                     8.7           9.6          16.8          15.3          24.2          57.2          42.9          16.3           39.0
Shoes, hats, etc.                    0.2           0.2           0.3           1.2           3.3          21.2          29.5           5.4           5.0
Wood and Paper Products                9.8          11.2          16.9          17.0           21.5          38.9          61.4          28.1          34.2                 8.9            4.1          11.5          15.1
Of Which Paper and Pulp              0:4           0.2           2.1           3.2           4.7          14.8          38.8           5.0            .                                -
Books and Graphics                 9.3          10.6          14.7          13.7          16.7          23.9          22.2          22.9
Leather and Leather Products           3.5           9.4          48.4          42.6          99.5         128.7         128.9          81.9          170.0                 5.5          12.5           69.0          28.6
Of Which Skin and Tan Leather        3.1           8.6          35.2          36.3           89.9         97.6          87.4           61.9           ,
Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals         21.6          22.5          38.6          39.4           51.8          64.8         91.5           89.0         109.0                 18.7           9.5          12.3          23.1
Plastics and Rubber Products           1.9           3.5          10.7           8.9          11.8          20.1          33.6           10.0           8.0                 2.3            1.7          41.3         -6.0
Plastics                             1.6           2.6           2.9           3.4           5.0            8.1          6.8          4.3       i
Rubber Products                      0.3           0.9           7.8           5.5            6.8         12.0           26.8           5.7           ,, .
Nonmetallic Minerals                   0.4           0.5           2.3           2.7           3.8            9.1          12.9           5.7          11.0                 0.4            1.0          41.9          36.7
Of Which Glass                       0.2           0.2           1.6           2.0           3.0           .4           9.6            3.2
Metal Products                         9.3          11.9          38.2          46.1           53.2         134.4         177.8          61.2         100.0                  9.0          11.1           5.0          21.6
Of Which Iron and Steel              9.3          11.9          38.2          39.6          44.9         124,2         161.2          48.9                                 -            
Machinery and Transport               16.0          22.0          66.2          82.4          117.5         252.8        368.9          396.5         445.0                 16.2          39.7          32.9          46.4
Machinery                           14.7          19.8          54.5          63.4           82.3        147.9          207.4         221.4         215.0                -             -                             -
Transport Equipment                  1.3           2.2          11.7          19.0          35.2         104,9         161.5          175.1         230.0
Other Manufactured gxports             0.5           0.9           3.4          4.2             5.1          119           14 -          11.5          18.2                  0.6           1.5          46.9          39.9
Total Manufactured Exports /a         96.6         138.8         336.9         366.2         487.6         889.9         1151.3         799.9        1093.5                100.0         100.0          28.3          27.5
International Price Index of
Industrial Goods                    87.9          89.9         100.0         106.2         115.4         136.8          167.6         189.3         192.2
Manufactured Exports in
1970 Prices                        109.9         154.4         336.9         344.8         422.5          650.5         686.9         422.6         568.9                  ,                          25.1           9.1
/a  This manufactured exports follows ISIC classification in contrast to Table 3.2 which classified industrial exports according to SITC classification.
Source: Central Bank of Argentina



ARCENTINA
1NI)USTRIAL CREIDIT PROJECT - BANCO NACIONIAL DE DESARROLLO
Table 1-5:  Exports from Argentina to LAFTA 1/
CuP..oItiu  l ut KP0.t.    C            .4o.919n, oL EP.or    (>n,DDeIh9On UfloCPo,te    K.p..t. to L.AfTA 0   AvarOSO P., AIi-i           .Ao.r.g. I.  An-o.
Sir,;                                         992T9:               I... 091 rbe.t2n-tf901 to    *10 Oe-;l.9l ...L ,.l,.          10 26tu Th           I   oE- -   ot  Totol ar*iTh of 1port.                    G-t6 ot Totol
.___e119^s I                                                                                              6n l.ude   {IISE tbriu^n4l   tlt)  by CoCo9Oct.. __o ___ _  _ _(bt
-968    -      971          2969        -79             1968       -i2-             9969               -   9-993    97I                     -1973    9970-1973
LXl  E LIU RlEU. b.2.3,4,5.6, 1.8.9   1,36J7,bS    3,26b,003                            100.00       lo.00          100.00        900.00        24..        24.4            10.7         29.5           19.0         12.5
!.   ,.o!refd , U.!4d           596r16-6d                 IbS,9.3 ~     I 93o,93      12.1          22.4           21.2           W8.8         47.3        53.3           31.7        37.0            34.5         43.7
I)  ,.Il:...1 o9                         S                          49.929 944.496               3.7           2.9            5.2           6.0         3S.5        5(.7           22.0         2O.S           13.6          I9.6
22  Imol. 940*I.lf-u- OCn1 x . 9ud4209
9,,0-F. r-l-                  l 9..  6.b         b            57,911      2d88060         4.7           8.8            5.8    1      3.7         34.7        301. 40.5                   43.1           39.0         49.3
i- toh.ir                                  611              17.1SS        97,551         1.1           3.0            0.04          0.S          0.7         4.4          108.0        231.0           *I.5         40.5
b.)  rycr 0109 F.p ,b6-d                        441                6bO         11200         0.1           0.3            0.1           0.8         69.6        57.6           70.0         68.0           76.0         101.0
.:   1-   9,,-  ,o,n .,d 1,..t.,.          65)                 591       14 538         0.04          0.5            0.0           0.5         391.        25.4           96.7         61.3           95.0        138.0
*   10... ,.1.0 +:.-- ~'.o9bo.             693              14.205        71,Sl2         1.0           2.2            1.2           3.7         28.2       41.6            49.4         60.2           58.9         65.1
19  99 .. 91,00  o~.d Ir -P.1.   1 9.qul2_e00    1................   1 ,5.42     254,944         2.b           7.8            7.S          24.d         71.0        11.4           SO.3    5     9.0           *0.0         45.5
.9  AX1.lzel1.l'l6  P-111-t,y                   712              2.957        21.631         0.2           0.7            0.7           2.4         96.9 I       6.9           53.0         53.3 '5.0                   60.8
9) 01tf 1- Hod,Io                               714             11.690        32,274         0.9           1.0            1.4           2.2         40.3        53.4           29.6         17.7           22.5         16.4
c,  M9.10,  n.1... 99lo..trl:-l                 I9               4,191        41,643         0.1           1.3            1.1           4.1         88.1        7S.4           54.0         55J.           SS.5         50.2
di  9.9169.-ol 111.9,,-ry n.0.                  719              1.446        lO,0l95        0.1           0.)            0.4           0.0         96.5        59.2           58.9         37.'.          i9.J         59.0
.9  9ns.9 9tIt.l~ 9,909~9**                     132              4.294        66,7)1         0.)           2.7            1.1           9.9         88.3        90.6           03.5        107.6           82.5        109.0
49  fltrIl....u2   HN0 14..o,,io, L..J 4 uo011   6                  22.441        92,603         1.6           2.9            4.5           4.3         6f.3        37.2            11.6        24.0            32.S         35.1
0)  *9o19,91.M .ini. *.t Iisr                  d41               2 S14        13.069         0.2           0.4            -             0.9          -           3.4            -           26.5           59.0         49.0
9.l  F.*x, *(C. Clull-~0 Ir ....     .         ..........                    .... 4 . 6b42  1,2b4  14,911  0.1  0.5       -    *-                                                                          63.0           .5
. 9  9o1.Ih.1                                   I59               1276        202984         0.01         0.6             _             -                        0.6            -            -                                         .
J)   , 9I".lj Illl-r                            d92             1J,251        24.273         2.1           V.J            3.7           2.5         89.5        89.3            9.8         11.4            9.9         11.6          0
I9 I    9..I'9 1.                       99D I 2*3.4,69-9         1,20l.942    2,535,J0O         87.9          77.6           16.8          52.2         21.6        16.1            9.1         28.5           16.1         28.5
.5  Hot -l 'Fl-, 7.,1199.1                     (919            204.94d       639.902        S.0          99.6            3.9           4.3          6.5         5.4           21.0         29.4           25.6         29.0
b9  Ilintl.v    o  .,n,o292.d                  994l            919,0bS       273,775        20.2           8.4           2d.0          16.9         89.1        49.2            7.3         22.S           14.5         29.8
-I o.l. -no... onnllod                          045             45.661       200.488         3.3           6.1            0.7           I.6          5.0        14.2           65.5         70 0           34.3         24.5
Jl- 5u0  .-  99...-Y                            09.             17.858       102,958         1.3-          1.2            0.1           2.0          12.4       23.0           St.2        9.,             47.0         93.0
.    - W,,9 .nIJ AM.09  O-lr                   262            111,296       98d,202         8.9           5.8            3.5           1.2         10.1         5.2           (2.0)       (11.0)          11.1         28.5
1/ LAFTA:  Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela
Source:  Based on U.N. Cofmmodity Trade Statistics                                                                                                                                                                                     |
02
U,



_NDIIST'IAL. CREDIT PROJECT - BANCO NACIONAI. D1_. DtSARKOLI.
Table 1-6:  Indits.rlal Employilent, 1950-1975
(in thlonaads)
1950            1955             1958             1960      _      1965             1968             1970             1971             1972             1973             1974             197S
INDDS9TRY
Tradti-onal  Industr-es
Food. beverage, tobacco                 301.4           307.7            330.7            294.1            219.4            306.5            329.5            343.11           350.01           352.1
Te.tiles, clothing, leather             304.7           277.2            268.3            251.8            263.5            260.0            265.6            277.0            297.1            300.4
Wood prod-cts                            85.2             67.9            69.8             b3.3             64.2             77.2             82.2             79.8             82.5             81.0
Paper, printing, p,bli.hi.og             59.8            62.6             66.8             64.8             76.9             92.2            103.7            112.7            116.1            113.8
Non-et.Ilic mi-nrola                     86.5             76.2             79.4            74.0             70.7             80.6             86.8             87.8             86.4             85.6
ilier Indoatrlen                        173.0            175.2           182.7            174.3            181.3            186.0            222.5            236.9            253.6            261.1
(-obly handiotaft)
Subtotal                      1,010.6            966.8            997.7           922.3            936.0          1,002.5          1,090.3          1,137.2          1,185.7          1,194.0
(In 7. of total)               (71.4)           (66.2)           (63.1)          (61.2)           (60.6)           (63.2)           (63.5)           (63.8)           (63.1)           (62.6)
"Grovth" Indootrien
Chleitalc                                74.6            90.6            109.8            111.3            117.7            115.7            123.6            127.2            131.3            132.9
8oolo netals                            135.0           157.0            165.2            151.6            164.4            169.9            179.8            177.8            186.2            181.9
Machinery & equlpnent                   195.0           245.1            309.3            320.9            325.9            298.4            323.1            341.3            375.2            399.0
Subtotal                        404.6            492.7            584.3            583.8           608.0            584.0            626.5            646.3            692.7            713.8
(In X of total)                (28.6)           (33.8)           (36.9)          (38.8)           (39.4)           (36.8)           (36.5)           (36.2)           (36.9)           (37.4)
Total I.dostrlal Eoployient                1,415.2          1,459.5          1,582.0          1,506.1         1,544.0          1,586.5          1,716.8          1,783.5          1,878.4          1,907.8          1,946.0          1,974.3
Average anno.l gro-th                         19510-1955                1955-1960                  1960-1965                   1970-1975
(In 7)                                         0.62                      0.63                       0.50                          2.9
Soa,rce: Cen-tra1 ank of Argentina



All(ENTINA
INDllSTRIAL CRE'hIT P1ROJECT - BANCO NACIONALI DE DRSAVIK01.1O
Table 1-7: Utilization of Installed Capacity
1965        1970        1971      1972      1973         1974              1975                                    1976
Second
Semester      Annutal Average                             March    June         Sept.       Dec.       March      June
1. Food      )                                  51.5         74         77         81         75          70         71         75         78         84          77         65
2. beverages)                                                79         58         57         57         64          67         48         53         69          63         41
3. Tobacco                                      91.2         77         79         82         84         92          96         97        100        100         100         86
NONDURABLE CONSlMER GOODS                                    76         72         75         72          77         73         71         70         84          79         64
4.  Clothing & Shoes                             78.4        90         90         89         86          93         93         92         92          92         89         81
5.  Printing & Publishing                         -           -          -          -         84         80           -          -          -          71         61          -
6.  Phatamceuticals                                          81         80         82         80          76         77         72         80          66         67         73
7.  HoUsehold Articles                            -          56         69         73         73         80          72         84         87         81          81         53
8.  Automobiles                                 65.6         76         80         78         82          68         74         70         70          73         55         50
DURABLE CONSUMER GOODS                                       82         83         83         82          80         82         80         81          78         70         66
9.  Nonelectrical. Machinery                    65.6         78         76         77         82          83          -         61         68         66           -          -
10.  Tractors & Agricultural Machinery                        58         73         63         82.5       94          78         77         80         69          66         80
11.  Electrical Machinery & Apparatus)           61.0         79         67         69         67          77         54         75         80         80          74         71       n
12.  Electronics & Communications
CAPITAL GOODS                                                 76         74         72          76         80         78         67         72          69         70         70
13.  Textiles                                    77.1         83         90         88         90         90          87         89         84         87          78         82
14.  Wood & Cork                                  70.4        79         75         77         79         81          84         84           -        80           -           -
15.  Paper & Pulp                                62.4         83         90         90         87         87          87         82         85          75         78         79
16.  Leather & Skins                             79.9         84         83         83         82         83          84          -          -         84          91         95
17.  Plastics             )                                   79         82         72         68          76         66         61         63         69          64         38
18.  Chemical Induistries)                       73.8         85         81         79         71          77         71         75         70         82          80         70
19.  Petrochemicals       )                                   80         84         90         88          70         73         73         71         69          72         70
20.  Sand & Cement                 )                          84         74         71         68          76         73         73         71         69          72         70
21.  Glass, Ceramics & other NMM)                 71.8        82         83         84         80         84          86         89         81          73         74         74
22.  Iron & Steel       )                                     91         78         75         72         61          51         73         58         69          65         63
23.  Nonferrotis Metals)                         66.6         93         90         84         76          75         74         69         73          73         72         56
24.  Metallic Products)                                       73         75         70         74          72         76         66         71          72         66         68
25.  Parts of Auitomobiles and Machines                       70         75         76         80         65          74         46          -           65        58         59
INTERMEDIATE GOODS                                            83         83         82         81         80          80         79         79          79         75         74
Total Inidustry (Weighted Averages)              66.1         81         80         79         79          79         80         76          75         79         74          70
Sotirce:  1965 CONADE, "Survey on Produiction and Investment Expectations of Industrial Eniterprises" 1966
1970-75 FIEL, La Utilizacion de la Capacidad en la Industria Manufacturera Argentinia 1974-76,"                                                                           o



- 23 -                                         TABLE 1-S
ARGENT INA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
Table 1-8: Comparison of Argentine with World Market Prices
of snae Indtustrial rnGdq, 1960-7nl
Tariff Influence (in percent)
World           Excess of           Ad Valorem         Utilization
Argentina       Market          Arg. Prices         Tariff             of Tariff
PRODUCT
Food
Flour (kg)                                           5.40            5.50                   -2                 60                  0
Peanut oil (kg)                                      0.30            0.31                   -3                 70                 0
Sugar (70 kg)                                       14.20            7.50                   89                140                64
Textiles & Clothing
Nylon fabric (m)                                     3.30            1.75                   89                110                81
Rayon          (")                                   2.50            1.25                  100                110                91
Cellophane    (")                                    2.00            1.00                  100                100               100
Cotton (100 kg)                                     47.00           57.10                  -17                 80                 0
Cashmere (m)                                         6.00            3.40                   75                 60               100+
Wool fabric (m)                                      5.00            2.75                   82                 60               100+
Shoes (doz)                                        116.40           79.00                   47                140                34
Sandals (")                                         51.60           31.20                   67                140                58
Handbags  (unit)                                    14.00           12.00                   16                130                 12
Suitcases (")                                       31.00           27.00                   15                130                11
Paper
Newsprint (100 kg)                                  20.40           13.70                   49                                    0
Kraft paper (kg)                                     0.40            0.24                   67                140                48
Chemicals & Petroleum Derivatives
Methanol (ton)                                       290             150                    92                 70               100+
Ethyl Alcohol (licr)                                 0.40            0.1-                  167                 70               100
Caustic Soda (100 kg)                               15.70            7.50a/                109                 70               100+
Sulphuric Acid                                       6.20            3.20                   94                 80               100+
Penicillin                                           0.38            0.14                 156                  40               100+
Kerosene                                             4.20            2.90                   45                 30               100+
Nonmetallic Minerals
Flat Glass (mZ)                                      0.96            1.02                   -6                100                 0
Portland Cement (ton)                               30.10           20.30                  48                 120                40
Metal & Metal Products
Seamless  pipes (ton                                 260             150                    72                 75                94
Barbed wire (45 kg)                                 15.60             6.50                 L38                 60               100+
Steel plates/4rms (ton)                            141.00           122.00a/                16                 60                27
Steel sheets/2mm (")                               149.00           120.00a/                24                 60                40
Reinforcing bars (")                               182.00           147.00                 23                  50                46
Lead Ingots (100 kg)                                46.80            34.20a/                37                 60                62
Nonelectrical Machinery
Drilling & boring machines (unit)                    5.570           3,850                 45                  80                56
Milling machines              (")                    5,000           3,400                 47                  50                94
Turret lathe                  (")                    5,450           4,200                 30                  70                43
Perforator                    (")                       95              90                  5                  70                 7
Grain storage tank            (")                      570             780                -27                 100                 0
Caterpillar tractor           (")                    2,700           2,720                 -1                 90                  0
Tractors (30-44 AP)            (")                   4,992           2,958a/               69                  90                77
(45-60 ")           C')                   5,439           4,010                  36                 90                40
Sewing machines               (")                    1,700           1,200                 41                 90                46
Harvester (ordinary)          (")                    2,600           2,550                  2                 90                  2
~?eder                                               l.443                                108                 90               100
SPeteoWer                   t-- 3                  1 86,             3U53               186                 90               100
Electrical Machinery
Air Conditioner (unit)                                 325             140                133                  90               100
Refrigerator    ("1)                                   250             150                 67                140                48
Adding machines  (")                                   600             270                122                  90               100
Generator; 48 kw (")                                 9,300          6,500                  42                 90                47
Record player    (")                                    60              42                 42                120                35
Light bulb, 40 w  (")                                 1.20             .90                 33                120                28
Electric motor   ('                                     40              26                 54                 90                60
Telephone exchange unit                              1,350           1,200                 12                 90                13
Transport Equipment
Automobile/smalI (unit)                              4,093           1,850                122                140                87
TOTAL UNWEIGHTED AVERAGE                                                                 39                 81                48
Source: 25RD mission 1972
a/ US - prices



TABLE 1-9
- 24 -
ARGENTINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
Table 1-9: Fiscal and Monetary Incentives for Manufactured Exports, 1970-1974/75
1970             1974              1975
(in mill. 1974 pesos)
INSTRUMENTS
Fiscal Incentives
Drawback                                     320              170                 30
Refunds                                      390               40                  0
Reimbursements                                 0            2,020                780
Exemption from Income Tax                    280              620                300
Total                                        990            2,850              1,110
Credit Incentives
Pre-financing                                 20            2,230              1,680
Financing                                    350            1,930              2,390
Post-Financing                               770            2,070              1,600
Total                                      2140-/           6,230,            5,670
Export Credit Insurance -/
Commercial Risks                               8               76                 90
Special Risks                                  3              280                340
Total                                         11              356                430
a/ March 1971
b/ In mill. of US$
Source:  Ministerio de Economia, Central Bank
A. Monti, "Exports of Manufactured Goods", mimeo, 1976.



- 25 -                     TABLE 1-10
ARGENTINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
Table 1-10: Exchange Rates, 1969-1975
Promoted                           Ratio               Index of
Export        "Free"               "Free" to           "Real" exchange rat
Year          Rate            Rate-/              Promoted Rate       of promoted exports-
1969         3.50            3.51                  1.00                 98
1970         3.77            3.86                 1.02                 105
1971         4.74            6.14                  1.30                 93
1972         8.01           11.52                  1.44                107
1973         9.66           11.29                 1.17                  99
1974         9.93           16.25                 1.64                100
1975        30.10           73.28                 2.43                111
a/ Quotation in parallel and international markets.
b/  Deflated by non-agricultural wholesale prices; 1974 = 100.
and international price index
Source: Central Bank of Argentina and INDEC



ARGENTINA
INDUSTRIAI CREDIT PROJECT - BANCO NACIONAL D)E DESARROLLO
Table 1-11: Commercial Bank Credit to the Industrial Sector in Real Terms
(1970 = 100)
SECTOR                                                   1971       1972       1973       1974       1975
31  Food, Beverages, Tobacco                                     106.5      105.2      136.4      154.1      111.8
32  Textiles, Clothing, Leather                                  108.2       96.0      115.7      133.4       91.9
33 Wood, Furniture, and Wood Products                            103.5       76.8       93.7      127.1       79.5
34. Paper and Printing                                           113.8      100.4      120.6      157.5      129.7
35  Chemicals, Plastics, Rubber                                   96.4       77.1       96.0      151.1      192.9
36  Non-metallic Minerals                                        106.0       92.5      108.4      134.8       93.4
37  Basic Metal Industries                                       106.8       89.4      105.3      132.6      134.4
38  Metal products, Machines, Transport Equipment                107.4       93.6      104.5      142.8      101.9
39  Other Industry                                               111.3       84.6       93.0      126.8       96.2
TOTAL                                                  106.3        94.0      112.7      143.4      104.8
Source: Ministry of Economy, INPE
0E
I-



ARGENTINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT I'ROJECT - BANCO NACIONAI. DE DESAKROLLO
Table 1-12: Summary Table-Industrial Development
1950             1960               1970               1974
1.  GDP in mill. 1960 pesos                         6,900.4           9,240.4          14,121.3           18,876.0
2.  Growth rate a/                                       3.0              4.3                7.5
3.  Gross value added of manufacturing              1,923.7           2,878.0           4,977.9            6,571.7
4.  Growth rate                                         4.1               5.6                7.2
5.  Manufacture's share in GDP (3:1)                   27.9              31.1               35.3              34.8
6.  Import to GDPOV                                     9.8               7.9                6.5
7.  Imported to total consumer goods                    3.2               0.3                0.4
8.  Imported intermediate goods to
value added of manufacturing                     13.4             15.6               13.8
9.  Imported capital goods to total
domestic investment in machinery
and equipment                                  19.7             20.1               18.8
10.  Manufactured exports (in mill. $)                  n.a.              27.0              288.6             911.0
11.  Growth rates                                       n.a.              26.7               33.2
12.  Manufactured Exports/Total Exports                 n.a.               1.8               16.2              23.2
13.  Industrial Employment (in '000)                 1,415.2           1,506.1           1,716.8            1,946.0
14.  Growth of ind. employment                           0.6               1.3                3.2
15.  V.A. per employee (in '000 1960 pesos)          1,359.3           1,910.9           2,899.5            3,377.0
16.  Growth of labor productivity                         3.5              4.3                3.9
Shares of major industrial groups in
total industrial product                        100.0            100.0              100.0              100.0
17.  Food, beverages & tobacco                          26.1              20.0               17.7               16.0
18.  Textiles & wearing apparel                         23.8              17.6               11.7               12.2
19.  Wood & wood products                                 2.5              1.8                1.6                1.4
20.  Paper, printing & publishing                         5.5              4.3                4.5                4.1
21.  Chemicals, petroleum, rubber & plastics            11.7              14.7               18.6               18.8
22.  Non-metallic minerals                               5.4               4.2                4.8                3.7
23.  Basic metals                                         2.3              4.1                5.8                6.6
24.  Metallic products, machinery &                      15.9             28.2               31.1               33.5
transport equipment                                                                                                             X
25.  Other industries, incl. handicraft                   6.8              5.1                4.2                3.7
(a)  All growth rates are listed under the initial year, i.e. the annual growth rate for 1950-1960 is in the 1950 column.
(b)  The import ratios are covering the following time periods:  1945-49; 1961-65; 1970-75.
Sources: Central Bank of Argentina & Mission Estimates.



ARGCENriNA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECTl - BANCO NACIONAL DE DESAMROLIL.
Table 1-13: Short-Term Output, Yxport and Investment Plans of 110 Industrial Firma
Repl*cement
1977                                                                                                 Machinery               I Imported Machinery &       end Rationalteetion
' Increase in                                          1977                                              Equipment as 7 of       Equipment as 1 of              as ' of
Real Output         Export/Output Ratio         7 Increase in            Investment/Output Ratio       Total Investment        Total Investment             Total Inveetmeot_
Over 1976             1976      1977             Real Investment            1976         1977           1976       1977         1976         1977            1977       1977
Food. Beverages, Tobacco                   + 26               7.5        5.6                  + 29                   3.4           3.5           61.0      50.1         27.6         18.1              56         34
Textiles 6 Leather                         + 29               3.0        6.4                  + 44                   3.0           3.3          68.3       80.3         35.5         5(1.0              52        46
Chemicals                                  + 17               4.4        5.2                  +255                   5.3          16.0           56.6      44.9         12.4         17.2               33          7
Non-Merallc Minerals                      + 22               0.4         0.4                 + 71                   3.3           4.7           72.0      66.6          7.4         15.0              71         42
Basic Metals                               + 50              12.5        12.0                 + 44                  21.7         20.8           49.8       49.6         19.3         19.8               4          1
l!tail Manufacturing and Machinery         + 37               7.9         7.6                 + 85                   3.3          4.5            65.5      71.3         24.7         20.5               52        22
Transport Equipment and Vehicles           + 32               1.5         2.8                 +133                   3.7          6.5           58.2       67.8            0         19.5              74         23
Other Industries                           + 25               6.3         5.9                 +156                   3.2           6.6           60.0      53.1         23.7         20.8               55        26
Total                                 + 30               6.5         6.4                 +J4                    6.1          8.2           55.9       53.0         20.1         19.6              29         14
Source:  FIEL, "Encuesta Cobre Pleneamento Industrial a Corto y Madiono Plato," Buenos Aires, December 1976



ARGENTINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
Table 1-14: Medium-Term Output and Investment Plans of 32 Industrial Enterprises
(in real terms 1976 = 100)
Food,                                                                                    Metal             Transport
Beverages &       Textiles &                       Non-Metallic                          Manufacture       Equipment       Other
Index of Sales    Tobacco              Leather         Chemicals       Minerals           Basic Metals      & Machinery       & Vehicles       Industries      TOTAL
1975                  89.9               126.4             120.2          82.8                 162.9             1.10.2           127.8           101.6         121.8
1976                 100.0               100.0             100.0         100.0                 100.0             100.0            100.0           100.0        100.0
1977                 146.4               133.5             149.7         147.5                 152.6             129.0            191.3           136.5        146.0
1978                 163.1               164.3             175.3         149.3                 187.6             141.5            222.8           154.8        170.7
1979                 178.5               180.6             230.2         151.6                 196.8             161.5            258.5           163.2         189.8
1980                 186.8               197.2             287.4         153.8                 206.5             175.9            296.0           171.5        207.3
Inidex of Investment in Machinery and Equipment
1976                 100.0               100.0             100.0         100.0                 100.0             100.0            100.0           100.0         100.0
1977                 199.6               176.3             337.5         140.3                 143.3             226.9           408.3            307.3        186.0
1978                 223.2               158.0             765.5         126.2                 158.3             552.4            282.5           233.0         244.0
1979                 194.7               129.1             681.9         249.0                 135.3             920.0            151.8           280.4        230.2
1980                 192.3               168.0             132.7          73.3                 107.7             921.8            122.8           330.9         148.1
Source: FIEL, "Encuesta sobre Planeamento Industrial a Corto y Mediano Plazo," Buenos Aires, December 1976.
a.



- 30 -
II. THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
A. Background
Financial Institutions
2.01      Argentina's relatively well-developed financial system consists of
the Central Bank, two state-owned development banks, 111 commercial banks of
which 29 are state owned and 18 are foreign owned, 2 investment banks, a
mortgage and a savings bank, both state owned, 80 private finance companies
(financieras), 24 credit houses and 72 consumer credit unions. This extensive
network of institutions has been built up over a long period of time--
Argentina had a relatively mature financial system as early as the 1940s--and
its structure has been influenced by past government policies favoring
specialization in the financial system.
2.02      Commercial banks dominate the financial system regulated by the
Central Bank. They hold about 80% of deposits and account for about 52% of
credit granted and outstanding (Tables 2-1 and 2-2). Commercial banks' share
of total credit, however, declined at a rate of about 5% p.a. between 1971 and
1975. Development banks, with funds provided by the Central Bank, increased
their participation in total credit from 4.1% to 11.9% during the same period
while their share of deposits remained relatively stable at about 1.5%.
Development banking credit is attributable almost entirely to BANADE, the
principal source of medium- and long-term credit for industry. Two investment
banks, established within the past year, are now operating. Both have paid-
in capital and reserves of about US$1 million equivalent. Their professional
staff is small and they use consultants' services extensively. The Central
Bank had received applications for the establishment of some 30 additional
investment banks, mostly from commercial banks who apparently wanted to avoid
having their credit operations restricted in case the new banking legislation
had called for specialized credit institutions. Since the new banking legis-
lation (para. 2.14) provides for a wider field of operations for the commer-
cial banks, it is not expected that many additional investment banks will be
opened. Financieras account for a small fraction of total deposits (1.2%) and
credit (1.8%) and concentrate their operations on money and government paper
brokerage.
2.03      Argentina's four stock exchanges are located in Buenos Aires (which
accounts for 97% of total volume), Cordoba, Mendoza and Rosario. The minor
and declining role of the stock market in the mobilization of private savings
is evident in the low level of new issue activity which in 1974-76 accounted
for less than 0.2% of the increase in total private sector financial assets
and in real terms represented about 5% of the volume reached in the early
sixties.



- 31 -
Table 2-1:   Percentual Distribution of Credit and Investments
of Institutions Regulated - by the Central Bank
(year-end 1973- 75)
1973              1974              1.975
(percentage)
Banking System
Commercial banks                       61.2              58.9               5203
Investment & development banks          5.9               6.0
Other                                  25.5              28.5               3$03
Non-Banking System                      7.4               6.6
Total Regulated Institutions      100.0             100.0
Table 2-2:   Percentual Distribution of Deposits with Institutions
Regulated by the Central Bank
(year-end 1973-75)
1973             1974
(percentage)
Banking System
Commercial banks                       72.6              73.3               7908
Investment & development banks          1.0               1.2
Other                                  20.4              20.1               :40
Non-Banking System                      6.0               5.4
Total Regulated Institutions      100.0             100.0



- 32 -
Past Policies
2.04      During the latter half of the forties, the Argentine financial system
entered into a long period of deterioration. The government began to finance
large annual deficits by borrowing heavily from the Central Bank, and insti-
tuted wage and employment policies which resulted in strong inflationary
pressures and disequilibrium in credit expansion. A system of "nationalized
deposits" was introduced under which financial institutions could hold deposits
only for account of the Central Bank, which then reallocated deposit resources
to financial institutions through rediscounts and advances. The public sector
grew relative to the economy as inflation increased, while the Central Bank
adopted a policy of maintaining low nominal interest rates, resulting in nega-
tive real rates. As a consequence of these policies, deposits with commercial
banks, which stood at 38% of GDP in 1935 declined to about 28% in 1955. A new
government in 1955 returned the banking system to a partial reserve require-
ment regime and several other measures were taken with some success. In
recent years, financial intermediation was again severely affected by govern-
ment policies and by the general instability which came to a head in the
explosive inflation of 1975 and early 1976.
Recent Developments
2.05      The government incurred huge fiscal deficits reaching 12% of GDP in
-1975, interest rates were again maintained at low nominal rates resulting in
highly negative real rates, and deposits were again "nationalized" in 1973.
The government preempted much of the available credit as its claims on private
sector financial assets increased from less than 1% at year-end 1974 to more
than 20% by March of 1976. Private fiuancial assets also declined substan-
tially as funds flowed from regulated credit to extra-banking markets and
overseas.  By June of 1976, total domestic credit to the pIrivate sector had
declined to only 44% of the December 1974 level in real terms, and term credit
had virtually disappeared from the market. Companies tried to compensate for
this precipitous drop in domestic credit through foreign borrowings, which was
further encouraged by government exchange rate guarantees ("swaps").  This was
not sufficient, however, to compensate for the decline in credit since total
private sector borrowings only increased in nominal terms from US$3.4 billion
at the end of 1974 to US$3.9 billion by the end of June 1976 (Table 2-3).



- 33 -
Table 2-3:  Credit to the Private Sector, 1971-76
(In $a billions)
December                            1976
1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   March        June   August
At current value
Financial system             33.1   47.6   78.7  122.1  317.2   430.4    627.9    792.4
Acceptances                   2.3    3.5   10.2   15.3   32.8    42.8         99.4    129.1
Domestic credit            34.4   51.1   88.9  137.4  350.0   473.2    727.3    921.5
Swaps                         3.5    5.0    3.8    5.7   74.1   176.5    180.7    164.2
Other foreign borrowing    11.2   21.8   24.1   28.2  160.2   340.9    371.2    639.7
Foreign credit             14.7   26.8   27.9   33.9  234.3   517.4    551.9    803.9
Total credit               49.1   77.9  116.8  171.3  584.3   990.6  1,279.2  1,725.4
Deflated by the
consumer price index,
1971 = 100
Domestic credit            34.4   31.1   37.7   41.5   24.3    18.4         18.4     21.2
Foreign credit             14.7   16.3   11.8   10.3   16.3    20.2         14.0      18.5
Total credit               49.1   47.4   49.5   51.8   40.6    38.6         32.4     39.7
Foreign credit in
US$ billions                1.8    2.7    2.8    3.4    3.9        3.7       3.9       3.8
/1   Includes the banking system (the Central Bank, the commercial banks, the
savings bank, the mortgage bank and the specialized departments of BANADE
and the Postal Savings Bank), the financieras, the credit houses and the
consumer credit institutions.
Industrial Credit
2.06      Credit to the industrial sector followed the overall pattern of the
financial system. By the end of December 1975, commercial bank credit to the
industrial sector had dropped to $a 149 billion or 73% of the December 1974
level in real terms. The impact of the decrease was uneven, with credit to
"priority" industries such as chemicals and basic metal industries increasing
in real terms while credit to other subsectors declined sharply.



- 34 -
2.07      More serious than the shortage of credit in general was the virtual
disappearance of long-term funds from the market, as the unsettled political
and economic developments of the recent past drastically increased the li-
quidity preference of savers. The resources of BANADE declined, leaving it
unable to fulfill the term credit needs of industry. Two investment banks
promoted in 1975 found themselves facing liquidity problems, while the
"financieras" preferred to finance commerce and agriculture, contributing only
a small percentage to total industrial credit.
2.08      The importance of stock exchanges as a source of long-term funds
for private firms declined dramatically. Trading of shares of private firms
fell from 45% of total volume in 1969 to about 1% at the end of 1975, as the
volume of government securities increased. Contributing factors to the reduced
level of share trading were the very low level of cash dividends being declared
by listed companies due to the credit squeeze, and the uncertainty surrounding
the actual level of profits being made by companies. Most of the new shares
issued by listed companies came from stock dividends and capitalization of
reserves.
2.09      While the credit squeeze in the private sector probably contributed
to the 1975-76 recession, part of the drop in the real value of credit resulted
from a transfer of resources from savers to investors due to the erosion in
the real value of outstanding peso liabilities arising from highly negative
real interest rates. This is reflected to some degree in the debt/equity
ratios of a sample of 24 leading corporations which fell from an average of
1.15:1 in 1974 to 0.91:1 in 1975, and are likely to have decreased further in
1976. The book value of equity may also be understated since asset revaluation
presently allowed does not fully reflect the increase in monetary value of
real assets. Since March 1976, the Central Bank policy of maintaining real
interest rates (para. 2.11) has stopped the transfer of savers' resources to
investors and the industrial sector's ability to maintain a strong financial
structure in the future would depend more upon profitability of operations
than on continued holding gains due to inflation. Although the low debt/equity
ratios do not necessarily indicate good health for the industrial sector,
since they were also due to a slowdown in investment and a depressed level of
production, they do indicate that the need for equity resources should not be
a constraint to industrial expansion in the short run.
B. Measures to Revitalize the Financial System
2.10      After the change in government in March 1976, monetary authorities
began to consider measures to revitalize the financial system, many of which
have already been introduced. Among the most important measures affecting
the financial sector are: (i) the institution of positive real interest rates;
(ii) modification of banking legislation; (iii) a return to a fractional
reserve requirement system and elimination of the "nationalized deposit"
system; and (iv) elimination of government incentives for foreign currency
borrowings.



- 35 -
Interest Rate Policies
2.11      The government is actively pursuing policies which should result in
positive real interest rates. Interest rates in real terms traditionally have
been highly negative, penalizing savers and subsidizing borrowers. Short-term
interest rates for certificates of deposit have now been "freed," and indexed
deposits have been introduced into the market. Because of fluctuations in the
monthly rate of inflation, it is difficult to determine ex-ante whether
current short-term interest rates (about 115% p.a. at year-end 1976) are in
fact positive in real terms. Over the medium-term period, however, it is
likely that such interest rates would be positive.
2.12      In 1972 the government began issuing peso denominated national
adjustable bonds (VNA) pegged to the non-agricultural wholesale price index
with a lag of two months and yielding a 2% positive interest rate free of
taxes. VNAs issued, however, accounted for only 1% or less of total financial
sector assets until the end of 1974. As the rate of inflation rose and the
government increased its borrowing to finance fiscal deficits, VNAs issued
began to increase and reached over 20% of total financial sector assets by
March 1976. However, technical shortcomings contributed to high volatility
in the amount of indexed savings. A major destabilizing factor was the lag
in the indexation adjustment, which resulted in swings into indexed instru-
ments after a period of inflation above the expected average and outflows from
indexed instruments in the converse case. Secondly, the Central Bank's policy
of regulating the price of VNAs in the secondary market in a very narrow band
(+ 0.1%) on the basis of the estimated variation in the wholesale price index
made the VNAs very close to being indexed money. Between May and August 1976,
the outstanding values of VNAs in circulation decreased from $a 320.7 billion
to $a 109.5 billion, including the indexation adjustment. It swung back to
$a 218.9 billion in October and down to $a 149.6 billion in November. During
periods of outflow from VNAs, the Central Bank resorted to the issuance of
short-term fixed interest treasury bills (up to 90 days) and was successful
in transferring public savings from VNAs to treasury bills. In late 1976,
the Central Bank decided to allow the VNAs' price to fluctuate in a wider
band (+ 1.3)% and this, plus lower and more stable inflation rates, should
stabilize the flow of resources invested in VNAs. Government debt accounts
for more than 90% of outstanding indexed instruments. The relative importance
of indexation in the financial system is shown in Table 2-4.
2.13      Together with the policies designed to maintain positive real
interest rates, the government is also considering several measures to facil-
itate the gradual lengthening of the assets and liabilities of the financial
system. While it would take a long time to establish a fixed interest term
*debt market in Argentina, it is possible to develop a market for term debt
based on indexed instruments such as the VNAs of the government or floating
rate instruments. Problems remain to be resolved with the use of either
mechanism at the present time. Some problems with indexation stem from the
inevitable lag in the adjustment mechanism which makes indexation reflect



- 36 -
both past and current inflation (this being one of the causes for the swings
in outstanding value of VNAs), and the difficulty of managing exposure due
to the lack of a secondary market in indexed instruments. In order to develop
a floating rate longer-term market, there would be a need to establish effi-
cient mechanisms to integrate the various market participants in order to help
establish an acceptable market rate as a base for the system. At the request
of the government, a recent IFC mission assisted in studying these and other
matters. BANADE, in cooperation with private financial institutions, is also
studying ways of hastening the development of longer term financial intermedia-
tion in the Argentine financial system. It has already begun by introducing
indexed peso loans to the financial system.
Table 2-4: Indexed Instruments as a % of Total Financial Assets
Financial                     December                            1976
Assets                 1973    1974    1975           March      June    August
Indexed                  0.2     0.9    10.9             21.4     18.2       9.7
Non-indexed /a          99.8    99.1    89.1             78.6     81.8      90.3
Total                100.0   100.0   100.0            100.0    100.0    100.0
/a   The vast majority of financial assets are short term and hence not appro-
priate for indexation.
Banking Legislation
2.14      A special commission was appointed in mid-1976 to draft a new law
for financial institutions regulated by the Central Bank. The new law has
been enacted recently and specific regulations will be issued shortly by the
Central Bank. The new banking law lessens the Central Bank's role in adminis-
trative and other matters unrelated to normal central banking functions,
while increasing its powers to supervise the orderly operations of financial
intermediaries and to control the money supply. A major innovation of the
new law is the ending of the specialization of financial institutions, which
is in line with government policies favoring competition and increased effi-
ciency.
2.15      In the past, Argentina followed a policy of fostering the develop-
ment of long-term lending by limiting the licensing of commercial banks and
at the same time authorizing the establishment of specialized financial insti-
tutions, at first financieras and then investment banks. The specialized
institutions, however, never succeeded in capturing a significant share of
the market. The new law authorizes commercial banks to engage in all opera-
tions not explicitly prohibited for financial institutions while other financ-
ial institutions' functions are enumeratively limited. Commercial banks,



-37 
therefore, will be allowed to provide a wide spectrum of financial services,
including those hitherto reserved to specialized entities. Intermediaries
will be encouraged to transform themselves into commercial banks but, to
grant a commercial bank charter, the Central Bank will have to satisfy itself
that the promoters have technical competence and experience in managing
financial institutions. Since a high minimum capital requirement will be
defined for commerclal banks, mergers will be encouraged.  To this end, the
new legislation allows intermediaries to have in their investment portfolio
shares of other financial entities. Furthermore, foreign investment in the
financial sector will be allowed only in commercial and investment banks.
2.16      Existing specialized institutions believe they can still compete
in the financial sector. They expect that commercial banks will be slow to
move into areas outside of their traditional commercial operations while
they, the specialized institutions, tend to be more innovative. Financieras,
for example, have introduced new financial techniques, such as commercial
paper and acceptance operations. Specialized institutions may very well be
the first private institutions to introduce indexed or floating rate longer-
term financial intermediation. To the extent that the more progressive banks
move into longer-term intermediation, however, the government's policy ending
specialization could result in an overall increase in term financing.
2.17      BANADE has given active consideration to the formation of several
consortia with private financial institutions to help channel additional funds
to industrial development projects identified and appraised by BANADE. BATADE
would enter into agreements with private institutions similar to the Bank's
co-financing arrangements, and may also, when justified, guarantee the parti-
cipation of private financial institutions in credit to industrial development
projects. BANADE would also work closely with these institutions in the place-
ment of medium- and long-term bonds and for underwriting operations.
The "Nationalized Deposit" System
2.18      In late 1973 the concept of "nationalized deposits," a system which
is equivalent to having a 100% reserve requirement, was introduced for the
third time in Argentina. In principle, the Central Bank rediscounts and
advances were to be extended pari passu with the accrual of deposits.  How-
ever, on the basis of quarterly projections of deposits, the Central Bank
established lines of credit which were not curtailed even though deposits fell
short of expectations. Moreover, the Central Bank established special lines
of rediscount for priority activities over and above the accrual of deposits.
As of year-end 1976, some banks were net lenders to the Central Bank while
others wiere net borrowers. The government has transformed this centralized
system into a fractional reserve requirement system, and has freed the resour-
ces that banks raise by certificates of deposits and indexed deposits. Al-
though the "nationalized deposit" system has been eliminated there are
technical problems related to the balancing of assets and liabilities of
individual banks that may take some time to resolve.



- 38 -
2.19      Under the "nationalized deposits" system, the Central Bank estab-
lished both special and general rediscount facilities. Special rediscount
facilities were used largely to transfer subsidies to state-owned enterprises,
for which purpose BANADE was the primary intermediary. The use of the special
rediscount facility has been discontinued, and the amount owed by BANADE to
the Central Bank for special rediscounts was in large part capitalized and the
balance consolidated into a long-term bond as part of the government's plan to
place BANADE on a firm financial basis. General rediscounts were used for all
other credit operations but these will be phased out as the control over
deposits is returned to the banking system.
Foreign Currency Borrowings
2.20      Foreign currency borrowing was strongly encouraged from March 1975
onwards by the combination of the rapid depreciation of the peso and the
Central Bank's offer of exchange rate guarantees ("swaps") at concessional
rates to commercial banks and their clients. A further inducement was pro-
vided by the Central Bank by offering additional domestic credit up to 50%
of the value of foreign currency borrowings. As a result of these incentives,
foreign currency borrowings covered by these "swaps" increased from about
US$500 million at the end of 1974 to about US$1.2 billion at the end of 1975.
It is the government's policy to reduce the amount of "swaps" and to substi-
tute medium- and long-term financing for these short-term liabilities whenever
possible. The premium on "swaps" was raised to 50% p.a. in mid-1976, payable
in advance, and the link to domestic credit was dropped. These measures
helped reduce the level of swaps to about US$500 million by the end of 1976.
C. Future Prospects
2.21      The revival of the domestic private credit market would be hastened
by the policies the government is introducing in the financial system. The
introduction of measures that result in positive real interest rates has
already caused a major shift from non-financial to financial savings and could
help draw back into the system funds which had been diverted overseas and to
extra-banking markets. Government measures to reduce the fiscal deficit and
to improve the efficiency and profitability of state enterprises are expected
to result in a gradual easing up of public sector competition for funds.
2.22      While the gradual normalization in the economic environment could
be expected to restore savers' confidence and result in a further expansion
of the credit market, it would probably take some time for a term market to
develop. Whereas short-term funds could be more accessible from private local
and foreign banks, and from input suppliers, a major amount of the term credit
needs of industry would probably not be satisfied by the financial system.
Reliance on foreign credit markets to fill this gap completely would not be
feasible, since only the largest firms have access to foreign borrowing and it
might take Argentina several more years to reestablish its position as a sub-
stantial borrower of long-term funds in the international capital markets.



- 39 -
2.23      The proposed Bank loan to BANADE would thus help fill an impor.ant
gap in the financing of the Argentine industrial sector, and would be directed
towards its most pressing need--for term financing of productive investments0
It would also play a catalytic role in the mobilization of additional medium'
term funds for BANADE through co-financing arrangements. The contribution of
the project to the reconstruction of BANADE as an industrial development bank
would also help establish a reliable and efficient source of term financing
for industry.



- 40 -
III. BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO (BANADE)
A. The Institution
Background
3.01      BANADE was created as an autonomous government-owned development
bank in December 1970 out of the reorganized Banco Industrial, which in turn,
had been established in 1944 to provide term financing for industry. Battered
in recent years by uncontrolled inflation, highly negative real lending rates
and frequent management changes, BANADE increasingly deviated from its cor-
porate purposes and became more a channel for government subsidies to deficit-
ridden state enterprises. By early 1976, BANADE's equity base had been almost
completely eroded and lending operations came to a near standstill as resources
diminished. Recognizing the importance of this institution as virtually the
only domestic source of term financing for industry, the new government
stepped in with resources and the resolve to reform the institution and enable
it to fulfill its originally intended purpose as an industrial development
bank. The institution was recapitalized, an experienced and highly qualified
management team brought in, and a new Charter of Incorporation drafted (Annex
1). The Charter underlines BANADE's primary role as a term-lending develop-
ment institution acting within the overall industrial promotion policy frame-
work set by the government, and at the same time provides safeguards for the
maintenance of its operational autonomy, sound evaluation standards and financ-
ial viability. As such, the Charter is a cornerstone of the reconstruction
process and confirms evidence of the government's full support for the direc-
tion and extent of the institutional changes. The Charter has been approved
by the Ministry of Economy and will be enacted by Decree-Law prior to signing
of the proposed loan.
Board of Directors, Organization and Staff
3.02      BANADE's board is composed of the Chairman, two Vice Chairmen, and
seven directors, all appointed by the government for terms of four years. The
present board consists of well-qualified professionals who came from success-
ful careers in private banking, industrial enterprises, and the government
(Table 3-1). The directors established working committees to deal simulta-
neously with both complex policy issues and day-to-day operations of manage-
ment and are now focusing increasingly on issues of policy and strategy.
3.03      Since it took over in May of 1976, BANADE's board has moved swiftly
to create an organizational structure which emphasizes project lending and
which clearly delineates the operating from the support departments (Table
3-2). Twenty-three departments were consolidated into five departments (plus
four divisions reporting directly to the General Manager), grouping together
those of related functions, and a qualified manager was selected for each from
within the institution. Lending operations are now conducted through three



- 41 -
operating departments: (i) Investment and Development Credit (industrial
project financing); (ii) Mining Credit; and (iii) Ordinary Credit (commercial
banking operations). An equilibrium of operations will be maintained consis-
tent with its institutional objective as an industrial development bank.
3.04      The Investment and Development Credit Department was created by
merging BANADE's technical and financial staff, an arrangement which facilitates
coordination, streamlines project processing and, at the same time, increases
the importance and capability of the department. Some 70 professionals have
already been selected for project evaluation work and an additional 80 profes-
sionals have been identified as being potentially qualified for this type of
activity. With some additional training, the department appears to be suffi-
ciently staffed with engineers and financial analysts. There is a need for
additional economists, however, which is recognized by management. Management
would provide additional training to its professionals in order to strengthen
and enlarge the core of qualified project financing staff (para. 3.14).
Seminars are also being planned for loan officers, and the rotation of branch
staff members into headquarters is contemplated as part of the program. This
comprehensive training program will include the use of outside consultants and
sending staff overseas for specialized training with support from the proposed
Bank loan (para. 3.08).
3.05      At present, project appraisals are carried out by ad hoc teams con-
sisting of an engineer, an economist, and a financial analyst who also acts
as coordinator. This group dissolves after the project is approved and per-
sonnel are reassigned to other ad hoc groups. While adequate for project
appraisal purposes, this approach does not result in continuity from appraisal
to supervision of projects. Management is studying alternative ways of
organizing the project evaluation staff, all of whom now report directly to
the head of the Technical Division. Technical staff would most probably be
organized by specialization in the future, e.g., a light industry group and
a heavy industry group.
Table 3-1: BANADE's Board of Directors
Background
Chairman                      Carlos C. Helbling                 Banking
First Vice Chairman           Javier I. Gamboa                   Industry
Second Vice Chairman          Luis Gottheil                      Industry and
Government
Directors                     Carlos Furlotti                     Industry
Carlos Gomez Centurion            Banking
Jorge Hernandez                    Banking
Rodolfo Lanus de la Serna          Banking
Cayetano Licciardo                 Government
Lino Montiel Forzano               Government
Esteban Villar                     Consulting



- 42 -
3.06      Loan officers, who are in charge of coordinating project appraisals,
have been temporarily divided into three divisions--one in charge of projects
falling within the scope of the Industrial Promotion Law (mostly light indus-
try), another of all other industrial projects (mostly heavy industry), and
the third of government enterprises (mostly infrastructure and services).
Projects coming from all three divisions would be subject to uniform appraisal
standards. As the reorganization further proceeds, the division in charge of
government enterprises would be incorporated into the other two.
3.07      A new unit, the Division of Economic Studies, has been created to
conduct sectoral studies which will assist management in its dialogue with
the government on industrial policy issues and will help focus BANADE's proj-
ect promotion efforts. As virtually the only term-lending institution to the
Argentine industrial sector, BANADE is uniquely qualified to provide advice
and feedback to the government on the impact at the project level of overall
industrial policies. Through its participation in the financing of large
government-supported industrial projects, BANADE will help ensure that adequate
measures to improve overall operational efficiency are taken. It is parti-
cularly important to strengthen BANADE's capability to advise the government
in pursuing rational industrial policies and to apply economic criteria to
its project identification and appraisal work. The division will start
conducting subsectoral and regional studies, and will also compile sectoral
statistics for the operational departments. It will also conduct research
regarding the sub-sectors of industry that deserve more support in line with
government objectives of export growth and diversification.
3.08      In order to encourage and support BANADE's industrial sector work
and its staff training program, US$250,000 of the proposed loan would be avail-
able to help finance these activities. Technical assistance would consist of
a US$200,000 component to help finance about 65 man-months of consulting
services (at about US$4,100 per man-month) for sectoral work and staff training
and US$50,000 to cover the costs of sending professionals overseas on fellow-
ships and training programs. The qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment of the consultants required under the project shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
3.09      Short-term credit operations, including import-export financing and
small loans for replacing equipment, will be the responsibility of the Depart-
ment of Ordinary Credit. BANADE is properly staffed, perhaps overstaffed, for
this type of activity, but management continues to devote efforts to achieve
greater operational efficiency, including reduction of the size of the depart-
ment's staff through attrition. A separate division dealing with enterprises
in rehabilitation has also been attached to this department; the board expects
to phase this out as a separate activity in the future (para. 3.39). Since
the branch network would be used for both commercial and project activities,
branches would not report to this department but rather to the Administrative
Department. While this arrangement is acceptable, management will further
strengthen branch office coordination.
3.10      All mining financing would be the responsibility of the Mining
Credit Department which, by virtue of the embryonic nature of the sector it
serves, would have a more promotional orientation. The department appears



ARCENJlI NA
I 'RAL S    (:REDIT  PROJEC   - BANCO NACIONAl DE DESARPOILO
Tabla 3-2: OrganizatIon Chart
BoAR  (  [DINEClEORS                                                 l 
C AIRMAN
VICE CIIAIRMIEN                                                       -
DIRECTOHS
GENERAL  AA1
_ Do,n00 oo
EcOfllDwso,                                            Orpilion
O-Li- Awmm                                                                                                                                                    O- _  _  I_..__       __
I                                                                           Dim-  .1                                        G j _  _  . .i -  -,. Dvit  C edil  t__rmm lra  _ Gna    a
_.                                                                                                                                                    _            - I=L-
Inoo.I{,n_.nlL D aL ,raR._dDd-o 
Droono ol  O,ortron of  MrflrnR CO,~~~~~~~~~t                                                                  A~~Irfl,00tt8l,oo             Carson Sof1716



- 44 -
to be appropriately organized to identify, evaluate and supervise mining
projects. Aside from its headquarters staff, this department also has eleven
small agencies operating in the interior.
3.11      Support activities related to the internal accounting and control
system have been assigned to the Finance Department. This department also has
the responsibility for financial planning and will soon initiate studies
regarding BAIADE's possible intervention in the local capital markets. To
link operations and resource availability, the department is informed of all
projects which are to be approved and projected disbursement schedules are
then prepared. Efforts have also been directed towards computerizing financ-
ial information in order to generate timely financial reports for management,
a serious deficiency of BANADE in the past.
3.12      The level of salaries for BANADE professionals is not sufficiently
competitive with comparable private sector salaries. In some cases, better
professionals could earn up to several times their present salaries if they
were to join private sector firms. Management is concerned that this situa-
tion might lead to some instability in key positions and thereby hamper their
efforts to institutionalize the reforms they are implementing. The relative
salary levels have already influenced the age distribution of BANADE's staff,
which consists of older professionals and young trainees, with few mid-career
professionals. In late 1976, management initiated discussions with the
government on this problem and proposed increases in the salaries of higher
level professionals of up to 100%. The government agreed with management's
views and the increase was implemented in January of 1977. This first step,
which is adequate for the present, is expected to be followed by additional
adjustments in the future as the economic situation further stabilizes and
as the government's fiscal situation improves.
Appraisal and Supervision
3.13      Although project financing had been a declining activity of BANADE
in the past, its technical staff has project evaluation experience. A review
of project appraisal reports, client questionnaires and model reports shows
that past appraisal work consisted principally of technical evaluation,
market analysis, and financial analysis including financial projections. The
work done covering these aspects appeared to be detailed, comprehensive and of
reasonable quality. Past appraisals, however, were poorly focused for
management decision-making purposes, containing neither financial nor economic
rate of return calculations.
3.14      As part of the reconstruction program, efforts have been made to
upgrade project evaluation procedures. BANADE's Policy Statement (Annex 2)
requires that projects financed be technically, economically and financially
viable, that they be properly administered and that there be a sufficient
market for their output. Steps are being taken to utilize financial (FRR)
and economic (ERR) rates of return in the selection and evaluation of projects,



45 
and extensive work is under way to prepare appraisal manuals, model reports
and computer programs. Training programs have been instituted to thoroughly
familiarize technical staff with financial and economic project evaluation
techniques, and the IDB recently conducted a month-long seminar for BANADE's
staff on this subject. As an initial step, management estimates that about
50% of total loan appraisals (by amount) in CY77 will include FRR and ERR
calculations. As stated in BANADE's Policy Statement, these techniques would
be progressively extended to all of BANADE's project financing operations,
when appropriate. During negotiations, agreement was reached with BANADE
to include FRR and ERR calculations for all subprojects utilizing US$500,000
and above of Bank funds and to include estimates of direct employment genera-
tion and the contribution to the balance of payments, particularly export
potential, in the appraisal of all Bank-financed subprojects.
3.15      Supervision of clients in the past was largely limited to a few
large projects and to problem clientao Supervision of less important clients
on a regular basis was inadequate. Wrhaile supervision policies requiring
regular client visits and reporting information have not yet been instituted,
management is now preparing manuals and checklists for supervision and is
exploring suitable organizational arrangements to assure continuity from
project appraisal to supervision9 and sufficient supervision coverage of
projects in the interior. This activity will require close Bank follow-up
over the commitment period of the proposed loan.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.16      Procurement checks have been normally limited to requiring submis-
sion of pro-forma invoices for major pieces of equipment, which were then
checked for reasonableness by comparisons with similar pieces of equipment
financed in the past or informat-'on from catalogues. BANADE has agreed to
verify that goods and services purchased are suitable to the needs of the
projects and are reasonably priced. It is BANADE's intention to require three
quotations for purchases of most goods and services.
3.17      Disbursement procedures for the larger projects in the past were
acceptable, consisting of pre- or post-disbursement checks on the progress
of construction financed and pieces of equipment in place. In the future,
these standards would be maintained for all project financing activities.
B. Operations
Operations by Sector
3.18      Industrial project financing declined in recent years as BANADE
increasingly became a vehicle for transferring government funds to state enter-
prises experiencing operating deficits, particularly in the public utilities
and services sectors. Table 3-3 below illustrates the degree to which BANADE



- 46 -
deviated from its industrial development banking activities between 1973 and
1975, when ap?rovals of all loans to the manufacturing sector declined from 64% of
total loan approvals to 41% and the financing of public sector service entities
(electricity, gas, water, sanitary services, transportation and communications)
increased from 11% to 37% of total annual loan approvals. Lending for primary
production purposes (mining, fishing, lumber and agricultural extension ser-
vices) remained constant throughout the period at 4% of total loan approvals,
as did lending for construction related to industry, at an average of 15%.
Table 3-3: BANADE Annual Loan Approvals by Sector
(billions of current $a)
1973             1974           1975            1976
$a      %        $a      %       $a     %       $a      %
Primary production             0.2      (4)     0.5      (4)    1.7    (4)       8      (9)
Manufacturing industry         3.5    (64)      7.1    (48)   16.8   (41)       40    (44)
Construction                   1.0    (18)      2.1    (14)    6.7   (16)       13    (14)
Electricity, gas, water
and sanitary services        0.4     (8)      3.3    (22)   10.5   (25)       22    (24)
Services                       0.2      (3)     1.5    (10)    4.8   (12)        7      (8)
Other                          0.2      (3)     0.4      (2)    0.7    (2)        1     (1)
Total                        5.5   (100)    14.9   (100)   41.2  (100)        91   (100)
Operations with State Enterprises
3.19      The broad area of operations involving the financing of state and
state-related enterprises 1/ were conducted in a manner which clearly called
for a redefinition of the institution's basic goals and policies. These
operations, which by 1975 accounted for over 60% of total operations, included
projects which could qualify as genuine development financing but more fre-
quently represented subsidies to state enterprises, particularly those pro-
viding public services, and inefficient private companies supported by the
government. The channelling of subsidies through BANADE grew in recent years
due to the growth in the fiscal deficit of the government and the weakening of
1/   Government support programs for private firms in strategic industries
experiencing financial difficulties.



- 47 -
several state enterprises which were not allowed to charge adequate prices for
services rendered and which were under pressure to increase employment.
Subsidy operations usually consisted of loans, which were rediscounted with
the Central Bank, or guarantees of third party credit which in turn were
counter-guaranteed by the Treasury. When these loans or guarantees came due
and the companies were unable to pay, BANADE either debited the Treasury's
account or renewed the loan. In many instances, neither principal nor interest
were paid by the enterprise concerned.
3.20      The greatest subsidy element in BANADE's financing of state and
state-related enterprises, however, arose from lending at interest rates which
were highly negative in real terms. Medium- and long-term loans were carried
at interest rates averaging about 25% p.a. while the annual rate of inflation
reached 355% in 1975 and accelerated to about 1,000% during the first quarter
of 1976. Partial use of BANADE's own funds for these operations contributed
to the decline in the real value of its equity.
3.21      In late 1976 the government agreed with BANADE management that these
practices should be halted and that BANADE should be granted greater opera-
tional decision-making autonomy. The channelling of subsidies to state enter-
prises through BANADE was eliminated in late 1976. All new medium- and long-
term peso lending is now indexed to national adjustable bonds (VNA), pegged
to the non-agricultural wholesale price index, and carries an interest rate of
up to 7.5% p.a. (para. 3.41). Moreover, management has begun to renegotiate
outstanding loans to state enterprises made at negative real rates of interest
in order to place these on an indexed basis, usually in conjunction with
new project financing or restructuring of existing debt. Sound operating
policies were written into BANADE's Charter. The revised Charter establishes
clear guidelines for BANADE's future operations with state and state-related
enterprises. The draft Charter permits the financing of state enterprises
only when they (i) are engaged in industrial, commercial, or service activi-
ties; (ii) have an independent equity capital base; (iii) do not subsist on
state appropriations; and (iv) have sufficient resources to meet their obliga-
tions. No equity investments in state enterprises by BANADE are permitted.
Furthermore, all projects financed by BANADE, including specifically state
enterprise projects, must meet sound economic, technical and financial cri-
teria, as determined by BANADE, and operations must be conducted in a way
which preserves the real value of BANADE's equity capital. The financing of
infrastructure and public works projects will be considered an exception to
normal operations and will be limited to those which are linked to industrial
or mining development projects.
3.22      The government intends to discontinue the subsidization of operating
def-icits of state enterprises except for a few cases which have been identi-
fied as the railroads, postal service and the metro system. Subsidies for
these entities will be included in the budget. Other state enterprises will
be expected to increase tariffs and prices to realistic levels, to reduce
operating costs, and to obtain their required financing at market rates.
Should additional financial assistance still be necessary, this will be



- 48 -
accomplished with capital contributions by the government. In its efforts to
impose higher standards of efficiency on state enterprises, the government
will expect BAJMADE to contribute to the improvement of their financial manage-
ment in connect,on with its financing of projects. BANADE's new policies
regarding operations with state and state-related enterprises, adopted with
the concurrence of the government, will enable it to exercise an important and
beneficial influence on the operations of these enterprises without jeopardiz-
ing its own integrity and its financial standing.
Industrial Development Banking Operations
3.23      BANADE approvals of medium- and long-term loans in local and
foreign currencies to private industry for fixed asset financing declined
from 32% of total loan approvals in 1973 to 17% in 1975, as shown in Table
3-4. The financing of working capital and foreign trade, essentially commer-
cial banking activities, accounted for 28% of total loan approvals in 1975
and, during the three-year period 1973/75, represented an average of about
one third of total operations. BANADE has also used its guarantee authority
extensively, particularly in recent years as the economic situation worsened
and foreign suppliers and financial institutions began to look for more
protection against credit risks. Guarantees issued mostly covered foreign
supplier and financial credits (88% in 1975), and during 1973/76 over 84% of
guarantees issued were granted on behalf of state enterprises. During this
period, the approval of guarantees in favor of foreign suppliers covering
medium-term financing of fixed assets for private industry increased from
$a 0Q2 billion in 1973 to $a 7.8 billion in 1975, or 18% of lending operations.
3.24      The pattern of approvals was altered after May 1976 with the change
in management and by year-end 1976 the proportion of credit approvals for
fixed asset financing of private industrial firms had increased to 35% of
total annual lending operations. These proportions will continue to change in
favor of private sector industrial projects in accordance with government
policy objectives.
3.25      BANADE's new Statement of Policies also declares that its resources
will be channelled principally to the financing of new installations, expan-
sion and modernization of private industrial firms. In line with these
redefined objectives, management expects the volume of new lending operations
for the purpose of financing manufacturing industry and primary production
enterprises to increase to about 70% of total operations during the next two
to three years (para. 3.44).



- 49 -
Table 3-4: BANADE Annual Approvals of Loans and Guarantees by Purpose
(billions of current $a)
1973    %       1974    %        1975    %        1976    %
Loans - Local Currency
Credit to state
enterprises /a             1.9   (27)       7.7   (48)    26.7   (45)    34.7   (26)
Medium- and long-term
credit to private
enterprises                2.2   (32)       4.8   (30)       9.8   (17)    48.0   (35)
Working capital               1.5   (22)      2.3   (14)       4.7    (8)       8.3    (6)
Subtotal                5.5   (81)    14.8   (92)    41.2   (69)    91.0   (67)
Loans - Foreign Currency
Fixed assets                 0.1    (1)       0.1    (1)       0.1    (1)       0.6    (-)
Trade:  exports                 -     -         -      -       2.5    (4)       6.2    (5)
Trade:  imports               1.2   (18)      1.2    (7)    15.5   (26)    38.7   (28)
Subtotal                1.3   (19)       1.3    (8)    18.1   (31)    45.5   (33)
Total                   6.8  (100)    16.1  (100)    59.3  (100)   136.5  (100)
Guarantees
Credit to state
enterprises /b             3.0   (94)       7.9   (90)    34.6   (82)    71.9   (87)
Credit to private
enterprises                0.2    (6)       0.9   (10)       7.8   (18)    11.1   (13)
Total                   3.2  (100)       8.8  (100)    42.4  (100)    82.0  (100)
/a   Includes short-, medium- and long-term loans to cover operating deficits,
fixed asset financing, infrastructure projects, accounts payable of state
enterprises, and government support programs for strategic industries.
/b   Includes an average of about 25% of amount for financial credits.



- 50 -
3.26      Annual loan approvals classified by the geographic location of the
borrowers shown in Table 3-5 indicates that BANADE, through its nationwide
branch system, has made a strong effort to attend to the needs of industry
in the interior. Approvals of loans to borrowers located in the interior
increased from 45% of total loans approved by amount in 1973 to 58% in 1975.
Furthermore, the large number of transactions in the interior (18,291 in
1975) indicates that BANADE may be fulfilling a useful role in providing work-
ing capital and fixed asset financing to local small-scale industry in the
smaller cities. Management intends to continue its emphasis on lending to
the smaller borrowers in the interior and is also giving preliminary consid-
eration to special programs to supplement these efforts (para. 3.28).
Table 3-5: BANADE Annual Loan Approvals by Geographic Location of Borrower /a
(billions of $a)
1973                 1974                1975
No.    $a    %       No.    $a    Z       No.    $a    %
Federal Capital
and Greater
Buenos Aires          4,614   3.0   55    6,517   4.2   43    6,155  10.6   42
Interior                8,928   2.5   45   18,424   5.7   57   18,291  14.9   58
Total             13,542   5.5  100   24,941   9.9  100   24,446  25.5  100
/a   Excludes $a 4.9 (1974) and $a 15.6 (1975) billion corresponding to
borrowers of multiple location, particularly state enterprises.
Commercial Banking Operations
3.27      BANADE's commercial banking operations consist of short-term loans
for working capital (also used for fixed asset financing based on anticipated
"Iroll-overs"), advances in current accounts, discounting of trade bills, and
short-term foreign exchange operations. As a percentage of total year-end
outstanding loan portfolio, commercial banking operations accounted for 48% as
of December 31, 1975, down from 67% as of December 31, 1973 (Table 3-6). The
decline resulted from the reorientation of annual operations toward the public
sector during 1973/75 compared to the years prior to 1973, and had dropped to
34% of total assets by year-end 1976.



- 51 -
Table 3-6: BANADE Assets (1973-1976)
(blllions of $a)
12/31/73      12/31/74      12/31/75      12/31/76
$a     %     $a      %      $a     %      $a     %
Cash and Banks                  0.6    8      0.9    5      2.7    4    15.2    7
Loans and Investments
Short-term                    3.8   48      8.7   49    17.6   28    24.2   1i
Medium- and long-term         1.1   14      2.6   15      5.7    9    13.0    6
State enterprises             0.4    5      2.1   12    18.3   29    56.6   26
Shares and other              0.4    5      1.7   10      1.7    3    10.1    5
Sub-total                 5.7   71    15.1   86    43.3   68   103.9   48
Foreign Exchange Ops.
Short-term                    1.5   19      1.2    7    12.6   20    49.2   23
Medium- and Long-term           -    -      0.1    -      0.3    -      1.2    -
Fixed assets and other        0.2    3      0.4    2      5.1    8    47.0   22
Total                      8.0  100    17.7  100    64.0  100   216,5  200
3.28      Over the years, BANADE has built up a total staff of about 4,000
and established 34 branches throughout the country. Management estimates that
up to 65% of the staff are primarily engaged in work related to commercial
banking operations. It would be difficult, during the next two or three years,
for management to make a significant reduction in this institutional infra-
structure due to the need, on the one hand, for representation in the interioz
provinces to contribute to the government's goals of decentralization and the
inconsistency, on the other hand, of an immediate and drastic staff reduction
while the government is attempting to institute economic reform without crea-
ting massive unemployment. Although detailed income and expense figures are
not now available, it is clear that commercial banking operations contribute
substantially to help cover the costs of BANADE's institutional infrastructure.
In view of these circumstances, management has decided that commercial banking
operations will be continued, but will be oriented to the greatest extent possi
ble toward support of BANADE's industrial development objectives. This will
be accomplished by giving special emphasis to the credit needs of small- and
medium-size firms in the interior provinces, and also by providing comple-
mentary working capital financing to larger-scale industrial projects which
BANADE is financing. The volume of commercial banking operations will be



- 52 -
based on the lending capacity generated by the short-term funds BANADE can
attract; therefore no resources will be diverted from medium- and long-term
operations. Emphasis will also be placed on improving operational efficiency
in this area. Management estimates that during the next two to three years,
approximately one third of its loan portfolio will be of a commercial banking
type.
Financial Situation
3.29      BANADE's capital and reserves as of December 31, 1975 represented
only 3% of total resources. Due to years of lending at highly negative
interest rates in an environment of high inflation, BANADE was almost totally
decapitalized at the time the new management took over in May 1976. Its
equity base of about US$87 million equivalent in 1970 had been eroded to a
mere US$7 million equivalent. Operations virtually came to a halt at that
time, and a recapitalization plan was instituted in June 1976 by the govern-
ment to save the institution from bankruptcy and to place it back on a sound
financial base. The June 1976 recapitalization, which reduced BANADE's debt/
equity ratio from 36.6:1 to 1.7:1, involved a total amount of $a 52 billion
(about US$208 million) consisting of:
(a)  $a 20 billion transfer from the Treasury over the period
October 1976 to December 1977;
(b)  $a 25 billion capitalization of liabilities to the Central
Bank arising from the financing of state enterprises; and
(c)  another $a 7 billion transfer to capital of miscellaneous
liabilities owed to the government.               1
3.30      Since up to $a 22 billion of the $a 52 billion equity capital
increase of June 1976 represented liabilities to the Central Bank and the
government arising from medium- and long-term loans to state enterprises at
negative real rates of interest, which are still outstanding, part of the
capital increase will be exposed to further erosion through inflation. Some
of this loss in real value will be compensated with the annual contribution
of 50% of the Central Bank's profits required by Argentine law and further by
capital gains from the sale of equity investments held by BANADE. 1/ In order
to offset future erosion of the real value of BANADE's capital arising from
outstanding non-indexed loans to state enterprises, the government has commit-
ted itself to capitalizing an addition $a 20 billion of liabilities to the
Central Bank and to consolidate the remaining balance of liabilities to the
Central Bank of $a 15 billion in a 10-year bond. These measures, reinforced
by BANADE's new policy of lending at positive real rates of interest, ensure
a firm and substantial capital base (Table 3-7).
1/   BANADE is selling Its equity investment portfolio which has a book value
of about $a 1.8 blllion and an estimated market value of $a 22 billion.



- 53 -
Table 3-7: Changes in BANADE Capital and Reserves Accounts
(millions of $a)
Capital   Reserves   Total
December 31, 1975                                          .5        1.7       2.2
Capitalization of liabilities to the Central Bank    25.0                     25.0
New capital subscription payable in installments
from October 1976 through December 1977               20.0                  20.0
New capital subscriptions specifically allocated          7.3                  7.3
Capitalization of Reserves                                 .5       <.5>         -
Revaluation of fixed assets                                          1.3       1.3
Transfer of 50% of Central Bank profits                   3.8                  3.8
Net profit - 1976 /a                                                24.2      24.2
December 31, 1976                                        57.1       26.7      83.8
Capitalization of additional liabilities
to the Central Bank - June 1977                       20.0                  20.0
June 30, 1977 /b                                         77.1      26.7      103.8
/a   Includes difference between nominal value and indexed value of indexed
loans.
/b   Preliminary figures.
3.31      As of December 31, 1975, BANADE's total assets could be broadly
categorized as: short-term private sector commercial operations - 28%;
medium- and long-term credit to private industry - 9%; short-, medium- and
long-term credit to state enterprises - 29%; foreign currency operations -
20%, and other assets - 14% (Table 3.6). No significant direct credit losses
on BANADE's loans to private industry are anticipated, in part because BANADE
has been "protected" against potential loss situations by the precipitous
decline in the real value of its outstanding loan portfolio caused by infla-
tion. Borrowing clients choose to repay loans at a fraction of the real
value rather than risk an unfavorable credit rating. In addition, tangible
collateral maintained its value. Loans to state enterprises are specific-
ally guaranteed by the Treasury and BANADE holds an unconditional authoriza-
tion to charge the Treasury account at maturity if payments have not been
received. Loan arrears as of December 31, 1976 totalled $a 1.8 billion, which
represented 2% of BANADE's total loan and investment portfolio. Foreign
exchange operations mostly comprised current accounts and transit items with
correspondent banks and short-term obligations on foreign exchange contracts,
on which the risk of loss is small. BANADE does not normally assume the



- 54 -
foreign exchange risk in its operations. As stated in the Policy Statement,
whenever foreign exchange resources are loaned in pesos, it will cover the
risk through indexation.
3.32      On the liability side, the Central Bank provided 64% of BANADE's
total resources as of December 31, 1975 through its special and general
discount facilities, as shown in Table 3-8. Part of the rediscount facili-
ties were capitalized in 1976 (para. 3.29), and the balance of the rediscount
facilities outstanding will also be capitalized or consolidated in 1977 (para.
3.30). Thus, the net effect of these changes was to leave BANADE temporarily
nearly debt free, except for foreign exchange operations liabilities which in
turn are mostly of a self-liquidating commercial nature.
3.33      Guarantees outstanding as of December 31, 1976 totalled $a 732.7
billion (US$2.6 billion) of which $a 628.5 billion was specifically counter-
guaranteed by the Treasury with an unconditional authorization to charge the
Treasury account in the event the guarantee is exercised. Of the balance
guarantees outstanding ($a 104.2 billion), about 80% represented guarantees
of suppliers credit to private industries for the purchase of capital goods.
3.34      The high rates of inflation experienced preclude a meaningful
analysis of past income and expenses. However, rough estimates indicate
that administrative expenses may have been 4% of average total assets in 1975
and about 3% in 1976, rather high percentages given the nature of BANADE's
operations but easily explained in view of the number of staff compared to the
volume of operations. As the volume of operations increases and as efficien-
cies are introduced, administrative expenses are expected to drop to close to
2% of average assets by 1979.



- 55 -
Table 3-8: BANADE Liabilities and Equity (1973-1976)
(billions of $a)
12/31/73      12/31/74      12/31/75    12/31/76
$a     %      $a     %      $a      %     $a    %
BCRA
Special rediscount            n.a.         n.a.          20.8   33    22.2   10
General rediscount            n.a.         n.a.          19.9   31    37.3   17
Subtotal                   3.9   49    13.3   75    40.7   64    59.5   27
Government funds                  -    -         -    -      0.7    1        -    -
Financial instruments           0.2    3      0.5    3       0.1    -      2.1    1
Other                           1.9   24       1.7   10      9.2   14    27.5   13
Foreign exchange operations   1.4   18         1.3    7    11.6   18    43.6   20
Total Liabilities          7.3   91    16.8   95    62.3   97   132.7   61
Capital                         0.3    4      0.4    2       0.5    1    57.1   26
Reserves                        0.4    5      0.5    3       1.2    2    26.7   13
Total Equity               0.7    9      0.9    5      1.7    3    83.8   39
Total Liabilities
and Equity               8.0  100    17.7  100    64.0  100   216.5  100
Avals                          16.1  201    23.6  133   150.7  235   732.7  338
Avals (w/o Treasury
guarantee)                      -    -        -    -      9.4   15   104.2   48
Deposits                        0.9   11       4.5   25      7.8   12    18.7    9
Financial Policies
3.35      BANADE's new Policy Statement sets forth financial limitations on
its operations which are adequate to protect the institution from unreasonable
financial risks. These policies cover concentration of risk assets, equity
investments, liquidity and liability management, financial ratios, and manage-
ment of special funds.
3.36      In its medium- and long-term lending, BANADE may finance up to 80%
of total project cost but not more than 150% of the borrower's unimpaired
capital and reserves. Short-term loans to a single borrower may not exceed



- 56 -
30% of the borrower's capital and reserves and the total of this amount plus
short-term guarantees may not exceed 50% of medium- and long-term loans granted
by BANADE. All guarantees, short and long term, issued by BANADE in favor of
a single borrower may not exceed 150% of the borrower's total funded indebted-
ness. Furthermore, the total exposure of BANADE in loans and guarantees with
a single borrower may not exceed 200% of the borrower's capital and reserves
nor 30% of BANADE's capital and reserves. Finally, the borrower's total debt-
to-equity may not exceed 3:1. These inter-related financial rules are designed
not only to establish prudent maximum exposure limits but also to ensure adher-
ence to BANADE's new operational strategy.
3.37      BANADE may participate in new equity issues of private industrial
and mining enterprises up to 10% of the private firm's total subscribed
capital. Aggregate equity investments may not exceed 20% of BANADE's capital
and reserves, and, furthermore, the holding period of equity investments is
limited by the Charter of Incorporation to three years after listing on a
stock exchange.
3.38      In anticipation of being called upon to support projects which
require concessionary funds such as social projects, BANADE's Charter author-
izes the establishment of special trust funds. Special fund operations must
be kept completely separate from ordinary operations and BANADE may not be
charged with any losses, expenses, or other liabilities pertaining to those
operations, nor may any of BANADE's resources be transferred to special
funds.
3.39      "Rehabilitation" of private and public sector enterprises was
included in BANADE's Charter in the past as an objective, but it has been
eliminated in the revised Charter. "Rehabilitation" usually meant providing
financial subsidies to firms considered of strategic economic importance but
which experienced persistent operating losses. Present outstandings, less
than $a 8 billion or 5% of total June 30, 1976 assets, are being renegotiated
or capitalized by the government.
3.40      Maximum permissible debt, including short-term liabilities and
contingent liabilities for guarantees issued, is set by the Policy Statement
at 10 times capital and reserves. Since BANADE will operate as a mixed
commercial and development bank, this debt/equity ratio limitation, which is
higher than that which might be set for a development bank exclusively engaged
in medium- and long-term lending, is justified. Short-, medium- and long-term,
and guarantee operations would each account for about one third of liabilities.
Interest Rate Policies
3.41      BANADE's Statement of Policies and Procedures requires that all
operations be conducted in a manner which preserves the value of its capital.
Interest rates must be set taking into account the cost of funds, market
rates, and the rate of inflation. Interest rates on short-term operations



- 57 
(credits for less than 180 days) have been increased to an effective annual-
ized interest rate averaging about 71%. 1/ Medium- and long-term credit,
which will be a principal area of future operations, are now being indexed
to government readjustable bonds with an interest rate of 3.5% to 7.5%, p.a.
depending on the purpose. Most fixed asset financing for private industry
will carry a rate of 7.5%, while loans for certain agro-industrial activities,
regional promotions, and base industries will receive lower rates. Medium- and
long-term loans granted prior to mid-1975 do not contain an indexing clause;
however, BANADE is also converting these to indexed loans whenever possible.
3.42      BANADE would relend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan in US
dollars at an annual interest rate o,f no less than 11%. The foreign exchange
risk between the currencies repayable to the Bank and the US dollar will be
borne by the government. Although BANADE now makes medium- and long-term
loans denominated in pesos with monetary correction based on the non-agricul-
tural wholesale price index, the government and BANADE prefer that, under the
Bank loan, the subborrowers assume the US dollar foreign exchange risk, just
as they would do when borrowing abroad. The interest rate on subloans can be
expected to be significantly positive in real terms for the following reasons:
first, the government is committed to following realistic exchange rate
policies; and second, the expected rate of inflation in the US is significantly
below the proposed interest rate for subloans which would be denominated in US
dollars. The question of maintenance by the government of a realistic foreign
exchange rate is being reviewed continuously by the Bank in the context of our
macroeconomic work program and the policy discussion being pursued with the
Argentine authorities. During negotiations, the Bank and BANADE agreed to
exchange views on the appropriateness of the terms and conditions of subloans
by September 30, 1978 at the latest.
External Auditing Arrangements
3.43      BANADE is presently audited by the Central Bank (BCRA) as required
under Argentine law. Past BCRA audits have focused on verification of
accounts and compliance with BCRA regulations, and reports have not been
fully comprehensive. Due to legal obstacles to the use of private external
auditors, BANADE's management requested that the Bank make special arrange-
ments with BCRA to fulfill the Bank's external auditing requirements. The
Bank's auditing requirements and DFC model audit report were discussed with
BCRA officials, who agreed to adhere to them. This arrangement is satisfac-
tory. Specifically, the report would include an opinion on the quality of
portfolio and the adequacy of portfolio reserves. BCRA would also be assisted
by BANADE's Sindico, a high-level internal auditor and shareholder represen-
tative of the government with whom the Bank's requirements were also discussed.
These arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.
1/   This rate is still based on the Central Bank rediscount system under
"nationalized deposits" and will be increased when BANADE begins lending
from its own short-term resources.



- 58 -
Projected Operations and Prospects
3.44      The trend of the past four years toward increased financing of
public utilities and public sector services (para. 3.18) and away from the
financing of the manufacturing sector will be reversed in line with BANADE's
redefined objectives. In its future operations, BANADE will, as required by
its Charter, give priority to meeting the medium- and long-term financial
needs of the industrial sector, especially the private sector. Financial
projections of BANADE operations through 1979 were prepared and management has
assigned a special team to review the projections and to continue refining the
details, based on its own sector studies as well as the sector work performed
by the Bank and FIEL (para. 1.31); a realistic assessment of resource availab-
ility; and, particularly, the change in emphasis in its operational strategy.
Table 3-9 presents projected loan approvals by sector through 1979. During
the three-year period, the proportion of BANADE lending in both local and
foreign currency to public utilities and public sector entities will decrease
from 37% of total lending operations in 1975 to 13% in 1979, while lending to
the manufacturing industry and primary production sectors will increase from
45% to 70%. Total annual approvals will increase threefold over 1976 to a
level of $a 200 billion (measured in constant pesos) or US$720 milion, but of
this latter amount, approximately one third will be represented by short-term
operations.
Table 3-9: BANADE Pro-jected Loan Approvals by Sector
(billions of constant 1976 $a - $a 277 = US$1)
1976          1977          1978          1979
$a    %       $a    %       $a    %       $a    %
Primary production               8     9        6     5      10     6      12     6
Manufacturing industry          40    44       73    61    105    64    128    64
Construction                    13    14       18    15     25    15      30    15
Electricity, gas, water
and sanitary services        22    24        14    12     16    10      20    10
Services                         7     8        6     5      5      3      6      3
Other                            1     1        2     2      3      2      4      2
Total                     91   100      120   100    160   100    200   100
3.45      Table 3-10 presents projected assets of BANADE through 1979.  Out-
standing loans to state enterprises will decrease in real terms. Short-term
outstandings with state enterprises will decline as existing loans are renego-
tiated and new loans for specific projects are granted, and undoubtedly there



- 59 -
will be operations involving debt consolidation and restructuring. Short-term
commercial operations will represent about one third of total local currency
loans outstanding. BANADE's medium- and long-term loan portfolio in local and
foreign currency, excluding financing to state enterprises, will increase
five-fold from $a 29 billion to $a 145 billion.
Table 3-10: Prolected BANADE Assets
(billions of constant 1976 $a - $a 277   US$1)
1976       1977        1978        1979
Cash and Liquid Assets                    19          15         15          15
Loans and Investments
Local currency
Short-term                           24          38          44          50
Medium- and long-term                 13         76         100         130
State enterprises                    57          33          20          19
Other                                 6           5           1          _
100        152         165         199
Foreign currency
IBRD                                  -           5          15          20
Other - Medium- and long-term        16          20          30          55
Other   Short-term                   35          35          35          40
51         60          80         115
Fixed Assets and Other                    47 /a      25          25          25
Total                              217         252         285         354
/a   Includes $a 24 billion due from the Treasury for subscription of shares
payable during 1977.
3.46      BANADE's Charter states that it will base its operations on its ox-rn
resources and those it can mobilize in local and international capital markets.
Consequently, BANADE's liabilities to the Central Bank will decline drastically
as a percentage of total resources, as shown in Table 3-11. These liabilities,
which provided 64% of BANADE's resources at year-end 1975, will only represent



60 -
15% of BANADE's total resources at year-end 1979. BANADE's short-term opera-
tions will be funded out of deposits from the public, which are expected to in-
crease to $a 50 billion by yer-eerLd 1979.  This goal appears to be well within
BANADE's capabilities, given its nationwide system of branches. Foreign
currency liabilities will increase -o $a 140 billion equivalent (US$505
million) as BANADE utilizes the proposed Bank loan and other credits from
IDB, export banks and private financial institutions. Borrowing from official
international and bilateral institutious will represent the principal source
of long-term foreign currency resources. In addition to the proposed Bank
loan of US$100 million, BANADE is negotiating a US$30 million loan from IDB
and US$25 million from US Eximbank. Short-term foreign exchange liabilities
will represent about US$145 million. As BANADE's forecasts indicate the need
for an additional US$205 million of foreign currency resources, BANADE will
look to co-financing with the Bank to obtain the best possible terms from
private international financial institutions. A five-year eurodollar loan of
US$100 million has already been arranged by a group of London merchant banks,
the proceeds of which will be relent in indexed pesos to six large government-
supported industrial projects. These projects are already under implementa-
tion and, consequently, would utilize the loan by July 1977.
Cofinancing Operation
3.47      BANADE has requested that the Bank enter into a cofinancing agree-
ment with private banks to help raise additional resources needed to fill its
financing needs. Agreement in principle has been reached with major European
and U.S. banks to syndicate a US$100 million Eurodollar loan. However, the
shorter term of the private loan compared to the Bank loan and the differen-
tial in the interest rate structure of subloans made from the private loan and
those made from the Bank loan, make it advisable for BANADE in its financing
of subprojects to mix private funds and Bank funds whenever possible. In
order to facilitate the mixing of private funds and Bank funds and further to
assist BANADE in matching the amortization of subloans to the amortization of
its external borrowings as closely as possible, it is proposed that the Bank
agree to permit BANADE to adlust toward the latter maturities the amortization
of subloans from Bank funds.  BANADE Tould be allowed to reduce the principal
payments, leaving at least a minimal amount, on subloans from Bank funds which
overlap principal payments on subloans to the same project made from the
private cofinanced loan. The cofinancing arrangement would thus include the
Bank's cofinancing cross-default clause, agreements to exchange relevant
information and to channel service payments through the Bank, and, in addition
to these usual private cofirancing arrangements, would permit BANADE to adjust
principal payments on Bank subloans for subborrowers utilizing funds from both
the Bank loan and the private banlk loan in order that the aggregate principal
payments would be approximately equal (para. 4.05). The formal association
with the Bank is expected to enable BANADE to obtain a longer final maturity
and grace period, and possibly a lower interest rate/fee than prime Argentine
borrowers have been able to negetiate so far.



- 61 -
Table 3-11: Projected BANADE Liabilities
(billions of constant 1976 $a - $a 277 = US$1)
1976     1977      1978      1979
Deposits                                  -        38       44        50
Central Bank                             59        20        8         5
Local Currency
Market borrowings                       -         -       15        35
Government and other                   30       15        10        10
30       15        25        45
Foreign Currency
IBRD                                    -        5        15        20
Other - Medium- and long-term          19       35        50        80
Other   Short-term                     25       35        35        40
44       75       100       140
Subtotal                          133       148       177       240
Capital and Reserves                     84       104      108       114
Total                             217       252       285       354
Guarantees /a                           183       165      180       200
Debt/Equity /b                        3.8:1    3.0:1    3.3:1    3.8:1
/a   Excludes guarantees issued with the unconditional counter-
guarantee of the Treasury.
/b   Includes contingent liabilities for guarantees.
3.48      The projections indicate that BANADE will enter local capital
markets with medium- and long-term instruments in 1978; however, this date
could be advanced if market conditions are propitious. The projected volume
of lending operations indicates that BANADE would have to raise $a 35 billion
(US$126 million) in medium- and long-term funds in the local capital market
by year-end 1979, an assumption which appears to be feasible given the govern-
ment's efforts to revitalize the financial system (Chapter II).



- 62 -
3.49      BANADE's newly adopted policy of lending at positive rates of
interest and the low ratio of interest-bearing liabilities compared to deposits
and equity capital accounts will result in an adequate profit performance
(Table 3-12). BANADE's net return on average total assets is projected to
reach 1.9% by 1979. Commissions earned on guarantees issued contribute signif-
icantly to the overall return on total assets. The interest rate spread on
medium- and long-term lending operations is expected to average about 2%,
while the interest rate spread on Bank funds will be 2.8%.
Table 3-12: Projected BANADE Profit and Loss Statements
(billions of constant 1976 $a, $a 277 = US$1)
1977       1978        1979
Interest and Commissions Earned
Local Currency Loans /a                            3.750       5.135       6.110
Foreign Currency Loans                             1.725       2.450       3.550
Guarantees Issued /b                               6.365       6.338       6.600
11.840     13.923      16.260
Interest Expense /c
Local Currency                                         -        .150        .500
Foreign Currency                                   1.135       1.920       2.785
1.135      2.070       3.285
Gross Operating Income                              10.705      11.853      12.975
Administrative Expenses                              6.500       7.000       7.000
Net Operating Income                                 4.205       4.853       5.975
Gain in Sale of Shares                               4.000       2.500        .500
Adjustment for Inflation /d                         <8.000>    <3.000>       <.500>
Net Income                                             .205      4.353       5.975
Return on Equity                                          -        4.1%        5.4%
Return on Average Total Assets                            -        1.6%        1.9%
Estimated Provision for Losses                       1.000       1.500       1.500
/a   Includes indexed local currency loans made with foreign currency resources.
/b   Includes commissions earned on guarantees issued on behalf of the Treasury.
/c   Earnings on short-term operations are shown net of financial expenses;
therefore, no interest expense is included on short-term liabilities.
/d   Estimated loss in real value of assets not protected against inflation.



- 63 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives of the Proposed Industrial Credit Project
4.01      The proposed industrial credit project represents the first Bank
loan to BANADE, Argentina's national industrial development bank. The pro-
ceeds of the proposed loan would be used to finance the foreign exchange
component of the acquisition of fixed assets for specific industrial sub-
projects. The main objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to contribute to an improvement in the overall efficiency
of the industrial sector by helping to finance projects
with the greatest potential for exports or efficient
import substitution, based on Argentina's natural and
skilled labor advantages;
(b) to assist BANADE's new management team in the design and
implementation of institutional reforms which will enable
the institution to fulfill its role as the major provider
of medium- and long-term funds to the industrial sector;
(c) to provide technical assistance to help improve BANADE's
capability (i) to advise the government in pursuing rational
industrial policies, and (ii) to apply economic criteria to
its project identification and appraisal work; and
(d) to serve as a catalyst for the mobilization of complementary
external medium-term funds from private financial institutions
through cofinancing arrangements.
4.02      Argentina has actively promoted industry for more than 30 years ii4
order to decrease its dependence on agricultural production and exports.
Consequently, manufacturing activity has become the fastest growing sector
in the economy, its share having risen from 25% to 35% of GDP between 1945
and 1975. The development of an efficient industrial structure, however, has
been seriously hampered by the lack of a consistent overall economic policy.
Neither the structure of total industrial production nor manufactured exports
indicate that the country has specialized in those subsectors in which it
would have a comparative advantage. A major goal of the government is to make
industry more efficient and steps are being taken to increasingly transform
heavily protected, high cost import substitution industries into internation-
ally competitive industries. Gradual reduction and rationalization of tariffs
has begun and the government is committed to following realistic exchange
rate policies. In recent years, however, most companies have neglected
necessary investment as a result of price controls, import restrictions and
general labor unrest. There is an urgent need for a Bank loan to help provide
credit for rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of Argentine industry



- o4 -
and, of equal importance, to contribute to the government's efforts to apply
measures of efficiency in the allocation of resources to the industrial
sector.
4.03      With regard to the Bank's second major objective of institution
building, much has already been accomplished.  Bank staff have worked closely
with BANADE management in its effort-s to reform the institution and restore
its ability to function as an effective industrial development bank. BANADE's
objectives have been clarified and restated, and operating policies which are
sound and reasonable have been established. A major reorganization of the
Bank has been smoothly implemented and key staff positions filled, and BANADE's
financial condition has also been substantially strengthened. Management is
now concentrating on improvements in its sector and project work and will look
to the Bank for advice and assistance in these areas.
4.04      As virtually the only term-lending institution to the Argentine
industrial sector, BANADE is uniquely placed to provide feedback on the over-
all impact of government policies at the project level and to significantly
influence resource allocation in the iThdustrial sector. It is thus partic-
ularly important to strengthen BAN7ADE's capability to advise the government
in pursuing rational industrial pollcies and to apply economic criteria to its
project identification and appraisal work.  It is management's intention to
conduct industrial sector studies and ';o maintain a comprehensive staff devel-
opment program to strengthen and enlarge its core of qualified project financ-
ing staff, with particular emphasis on the economic evaluation of projects.
In order to encourage and support these activities, US$250,000 of the proposed
loan would be set aside as a technical assistance component.  It would be
utilized to finance the hiring of consultants for sectoral work and for staff
training, to cover the costs of overseas training of professionals, and other
related activities.
4.05      The proposed loan is expected to make a substantial contribution
to BANADE's capability to mobilize external funds in international capital
markets. Both BANADE management and Bank staff have kept numerous private
bankers informed of the progress in irplementing institutional reforms and
strengthening of BANAIDE's fanancial ,position. A group of London merchant
bankers was able to arrange a five year eurodollar loan syndication to be
channeled through BANTADE to 6 la2rge i-ndustrial projects supported by the
government.  In addition. manageTuient has obtained agreement in principle
from major European and U.SO internatIonal banks to lead a second US$100
million eurodollar _oan syndication iA',ich will be closely associated with the
proposed Bank loan through cof;inancing.  The arrangement would include the
following:  (i) the Toan P  cement'etZween the Bank and BA14ADE would be
amended to include a cross-defaul; clause specifically referring to the
private co-financing loan; (ii) the Bank, if requested, would act as channel
for the service payment on the private bank loan; (iii) the Bank would agree
to exchange information with the private lenders on BANADE's operations; and
(iv) BANADE would be alloec& to ad:-uso principal payments on Bank subloans for
subborrowers utilizitna funrs from bota the Bank loan and the private bank loan



- 65 -
in order that the aggregate principal payments be approximately equal. The
formal association with the Bank is expected to enable BANADE to obtain a
longer final maturity and grace period, and possibly a lower interest rate/fee
than prime Argentine borrowers have been able to negotiate so far.
B. Demand for and Expected Utilization of the Proposed Loan
4.06      Due to the low level of investments made for industrial reequipment
and modernization in Argentina during the last five years, a significant need
now exists to replace old and inefficient machinery and equipment. In addi-
tion to reequipment, substantial demand exists for new investments for expan-
sion, particularly in subsectors such as agricultural machinery, textiles and
leather goods which are operating at relatively high levels of capacity util-
ization. As explained previously (para. 1.30), total new investment in
machinery and equipment is expected to reach US$6 billion in 1977-78, indica-
ting the need for capital goods imports by industry of about US$360 million
per year over this period. Projections and studies made by the government and
the research foundation FIEL, which were verified by the industrial sector
review undertaken in connection with the appraisal of the proposed project,
confirm these estimates of the magnitude of industrial investment. Due to
conditions existing in the domestic capital market, a major amount of the term
credit needs of industry would probably not be satisfied by the financial
system. Reliance on foreign credit markets to fill the financing gap entirely
would not be feasible since only the largest firms have access to foreign
borrowing and it might take Argentina several more years before it can regain
its position as a substantial borrower of long-term capital in the inter-
national markets. The proposed Bank loan would thus help fill an important
gap in the financing of productive industrial investments directly and with
complimentary funds mobilized through cofinancing arrangements.
4.07      The most likely candidates for financing with Bank funds under the
proposed loan are medium-size projects (averaging about US$8 million equiva-
lent total investment costs) such as those included in the pipeline of proj-
ects being reviewed by the Secretary of Industry for fiscal incentives under
the Industrial Promotion Law, and for which BA1iADE will probably be called
upon to provide term financing. As of mid-December 1976, there were 143 such
projects under consideration, with total investment requirements of US$420
million and direct foreign exchange costs of about US$130 million. If in-
direct foreign exchange costs are taken into account, the total could rise
to about US$180 million. Most of these projects would utilize the country's
principal sources of comparative advantage--natural and skilled labor
resources--and many are located in outlying provinces, thus contributing to
the government's industrial decentralization efforts. In addition to these
projects, another 200 are before the Secretary of Industry at a more prelim-
inary stage of consideration.



- 66 -
4.08      Due to the variety of industrial subprojects expected to be pres-
ented und^r !:e proposed loan, it is not possible to estimate ex ante the
composite ERR for the project.  However, BANADE will assure itself of the
economic viability of subprojects and will calculate both the FRR and the ERR
for all subprojects requiring over US$500,000 in Bank funds (para. 3.14). It
will also progressively extend these techniques to all of its other project
financing operations. The employment and balance of payments impact of the
proposed project are likewise difficult to quantify, but BANADE subproject
appraisals will include estimates of direct employment creation and contri-
bution to the balance of payments.
C. The Proposed Loan
General Description
4.09      The proposed loan of US$100 million would be utilized to finance
the foreign exchange component of projects in the industrial sector and
would include a technical assistance component of US$250,000. Bank funds for
subprojects would finance the cost of imported equipment and the foreign
exchange component of locally manufactured equipment (para. 4.12). The loan
would be made to BANADE with the guarantee of the Government of Argentina at
the current Bank interest rate of 8.2% p.a. and standard commitment fee on
the undisbursed balance (3/4% p.a.). BANADE will relend the proceeds of the
proposed Bank loan in US dollars with the exchange risk between the dollar and
the currencies disbursed by the Bank to be taken by the government. The
proposed loan is expected to be committed by December 31, 1979 and disbursed
by December 31, 1981. Following standard DFC practice, the amortization of
the loan would conform to the aggregate of the amortization schedules of
individual subloans, subject to a maximum term for the loan of 15 years.
Subloan Terms
4.10      Within the limits established in para. 4.08, subloans would be for
up to 15 years including a reasonable grace period not to exceed 3 years.
BANADE may adjust principal payments on Bank subloans for subborrowers util-
izing funds from both the Bank loan and the private banks' cofinanced loan
in order that the aggregate principal payments by the subborrower be approxi-
mately equal. Unless the Bank otherwise agrees, the maximum amount of Bank
funds that may be utilized for any subproject may not exceed US$6 million.
Subloans would be denominated in US dollars and would carry an interest rate
of not less than 11%, plus a commitment fee on the undisbursed balance. The
spread of 2.8% p.a. between BANADE's relending rate and the Bank's lending
rate adequately covers subloan administration and supervision expenses.
Approval Limits
4.11      Although past project appraisals contained neither financial nor
economic rate of return calculations, BANADE's technical staff has reasonable
project evaluation experience. Training programs have been implemented which
would be further supplemented in the future under the proposed technical



- 67 -
assistance component of the loan. Subprojects will also have to be approved
by BANADE's board of directors, a "working board" composed of highly qualified
and experienced members. Taking these points into account, BANADE will be
required to submit the first four subprojects for Bank approval irrespective
of subloan amount, after which a free limit of US$2 million would apply.
These arrangements would result in the review by the Bank of a representative
sample of subprojects covering approximately 60% of the of the proposed loan
amount.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.12      Procurement for subprojects would be in accordance with standard
practice for DFC loans. Disbursement of funds from the loan for subprojects
would be on the following basis: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for direct
imports; (b) 60% of total expenditures of foreign equipment purchased off-the-
shelf; and (c) 30% of total expenditures for locally produced equipment. The
percentages for (b) and (c) represent average foreign exchange costs determined
from a review of a sample of past BANADE projects. Under the technical assis-
tance component, the Bank would disburse: (a) 75% of the cost of consultancy
services, and (b) 100% of the foreign expenditures for staff fellowships and
training abroad. Unless otherwise agreed, any funds remaining uncommitted at
the end of the commitment period would be cancelled.
Technical Assistance Component
4.13      The technical assistance component would include:  (a) US$200,000
to help finance about 65 man-months of consultancy services (at about US$4,100
per man-month) for staff training and sectoral studies, and (b) US$50,000 to
finance the sending of professionals overseas for fellowships and training
programs. The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment of the consultants required under the project shall be satisfactory to
the Bank. The technical assistance component would be repaid over 15 years,
including 3 years of grace.



- 68 -
V. AGREEMENTS, UNDERSTANDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements Reached
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a)  with the government, regarding (i) relending terms for the
proposed loan, including its assumption of the exchange risk
between the US dollar and the currencies disbursed by the
Bank (paras. 3.42 and 4.09); and (ii) the auditing arrangements
with the Central Bank (para. 3.43);
(b)  with BANADE regarding:
(i) the use by BANADE of FRR and ERR calculations for
appraisals of all subprojects utilizing US$500,000
and above of Bank funds (para. 3.14);
(ii) the calculation of estimates of direct employment
generation and balance of payments impact in the
appraisal of all subprojects utilizing Bank funds
(para. 3.14);
(iii) a debt/equity ratio limitation of 10:1, including in
debt contingent as well as all direct liabilities
(para. 3.40);
(iv) relending terms and conditions o# the proposed loan
(para. 4.09 to 4.13);
(v) a review by BANADE and the Bank of the appropriateness
of the terms and conditions of subloans by September 30,
1978 at the latest (para. 3.42); and
(vi) confirmation of the external auditing arrangements
involving the Central Bank and BANADE's Sindico
(para. 3.43).
5.02      Prior to loan signing, BANADE will provide the Bank with evidence
that the Decree-Law enacting the Charter of Incorporation has been issued
(para. 3.01).
B. Recommendation
5.03      The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$100 million to BANADE with the guarantee of the Republic of
Argentina on the terms and conditions listed in Chapter IV.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
Charter of Incorporation 1/
CHAPTER I
NATURE AND OBJECTIVE
Article 1. The Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE) is an independent agency
of the Nation which has budgetary and administrative autonomy and is a part of
the official banking system. It is governed by the provisions of this law and
of other legal rules consistent therewith, and will coordinate its activities
with all economic and financial policies that are established by the National
Government.
Article 2. The Argentine Nation guarantees BANADE's operations.
OBJECTIVE
Article 3. The primary objective of BANADE will be to support the development
of the country's industry and mining, especially in the private sector, in
accordance with guidelines set by the National Government. For this purpose,
it will finance projects and programs that--in the judgment of the Bank--which
will in each case weigh their impact on the economy of the sector to which
they belong and on the country as a whole--meet satisfactory technical, econ-
omic and financial conditions. It will tend, in its development, to give
priority to covering their long- and medium-term financing needs, using its
own resources and those it obtains in domestic and foreign capital markets.
In the same manner, and also using the resources of the special funds
contemplated in Chapters IX and X hereof, it will support the development of
the economic infrastructure and social promotion by means of development
credits.
In order to better attain this objective, it will:
(a)  Finance the installation, modernization or enlargement of
industrial and mining firms, particularly in regions or
activities deemed of priority by the National Government.
(b)  Follow sound technical, economic and financial criteria
in its financing operations, in order to ensure an efficient
allocation of resources and maintain the integrity of its
capital.
1/   Official translation (from Spanish).



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(c) Strive to ensure that the firms it finances attain the highest
levels of efficiency and competitiveness, to which end it may
establish administrative, technical, financial, corporate and gen-
eral operational conditions in the corresponding agreements.
(d) Foster and promote small businesses by providing financial and
technical assistance to improve the efficiency and productivity of
such firms, particularly those located in the interior and in
boundary areas, with a view to encouraging effective industrial
decentralization.
(e) Contribute to the development and promotion of the mining sector.
(f) Encourage the realization of investment projects by identifying
opportunities and providing support and advisory services during
their development.
(g) Support the development of a medium- and long-term capital market
and of an investment banking system.
(h) Promote and support foreign trade, performing all actions and oper-
ations which help to attain the goals which may be established in
this matter by the National Government.
(i) Support the development of scientific and technical research for
application to industry and mining.
(j) Follow the same criteria and technical, financial and economic
requirements in all its operations and financing activities,
whether they pertain to private or public projects.
CHAPTER II
DOMICILE
Article 4. The legal domicile of the Bank is its Main Office in the city of
Buenos Aires.
Article 5. The Bank may establish or eliminate branch offices of any nature
as well as other representations, whether temporary or permanent, fixed or
mobile and domestically or abroad, subject to the provisions of the law on
financial institutions and its regulations.
In opening or closing foreign branch offices, delegations or other re-
presentations, the Bank shall act with the prior knowledge of the Ministry of
the Economy.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
CHAPTER II
CAPITAL, PROFITS AND RESOURCES
Article 6. The Bank's capital stock is $a 72,000,000,000.
The National Executive Branch may increase it as necessary to enable it
to fulfill its duties.
Article 7. The board of directors may increase the Bank's capital by means
of contributions from:
(a) profits and reserve funds designated for the purpose;
(b) accounting reappraisals it approves;
(c) resources specifically assigned for the purpose by the National Gov-
ernment.
Article 8. The net realized profits registered at the close of each fiscal
year will be distributed as follows, after any debt repayments are effected
and any penalties, reserves and allowances are deducted as deemed appropriate
by the board of directors:
(a) a minimum of twenty percent (20%) to the general reserve fund;
(b) the remainder, to increase the capital stock, to add to the special
funds stipulated in Chapter IX, and to other purposes and special
reserves as determined by the board of directors.
Article 9. The Bank will have available the following resources in order to
comply with its objectives:
(a) its own capital and reserves;
(b) all deposits it receives;
(c) the proceeds from placements of bonds and other securities it issues
in domestic or foreign currency;
(d) the proceeds from the issue of shares of its loan, real estate and
investment portfolios;
(e) any credits it obtains from domestic banking and other financial
institutions and from international organizations;



ANNEX I
Page 4
(f) the proceeds from its operations and the recovery of its portfolio;
(g) any funds allocated to it by the State for general or special pro-
grams or for financing specific projects;
(h)  any resources it obtains by any other means covered in the Law on
Financial Institutions.
CHAPTER IV
GOVERNMENT
Article 10. The Bank will be governed by a board of directors consisting of
one chairman, one vice chairman and eight directors, all of whom shall be
Argentine citizens by birth or by choice or naturalized citizens with not
less than ten years since their naturalization.
Article 11. The chairman, vice chairman and directors will be appointed by
the National Executive Branch and will hold their posts for indefinitely re-
newable four-year terms.
Article 12. The chairman, vice chairman and directors shall possess recog-
nized capacity in technical, economic and financial matters. The directors
should represent in a balanced manner the various sectors, activities and
regions which comprise the nation's financial, industrial and mining ac-
tivity.
Article 13. In the event any member of the board of directors should die or
resign or otherwise leave his position vacant prior to the end of the period
for which he was appointed, a replacement will be named to complete his term
in the manner stipulated in Article 11.
Article 14. The vice chairman will perform the duties of the chairman in the
event of absence or inability of the latter or vacancy of the position. He
will collaborate with the chairman in supervising the Bank's administration
and will coordinate the work of the board of directors, of whose committees
he will be a member ex officio. He will also perform any duties the chairman
may assign to him from among his own.
Article 15. The board of directors shall annually elect from among its mem-
bers a second vice chairman who will act in the event of the absence or in-
capacity of the chairman and vice chairman or of these positions being vacant,
until such time as the positions are filled in accordance with the provisions
of Article 11.



ANNEX I
Page 5
Article 16. The following individuals may not serve as members of the board
of directors2
(a) those to whom the disqualifications stipulated in the Law on Finan-
cial Institutions apply or who are lacking in recognized moral
standing;
(b) those who play any part in the management, administration, repre-
sentation or sindicatura* of other banks or financial entities,
except if they are ex officio members of other official banking
institutions or national, provincial or municipal organizations
by virtue of their membership in the Board of Directors of
BANTADE;
(c) employees or officials of any agency of the National Government,
as well as those who hold any other job or position remunerated
in any fashion by, and directly or indirectly dependent on, the
national, provincial or municipal governments, except those who
exercise the teaching profession;
(d) those who are members of national, provincial or municipal legis-
lative or judicial bodies.
Article 170 Compensation for the members of the board of directors shall be
as established by the National Executive Branch of Government.
CHAIRMAN
Article 18. The chairman of the board of directors of the Bank shall enforce
the provisions of this Charter of Incorporation, other legal and regulatory
rules for whose execution the Bank is responsible, and the internal by-laws
and rules established by the institution. The responsibilities of the chair-
man irncludeg
(a) Legally represent the Bank.
(b) Lead the administration of the Bank.
(c) Act in representation of the board of directors and preside its
meet lgs0
(d)  Aopoint members of the board of directors to board committees.
*    Office of a sindico - see note on page 10. -- T.N.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
(e) Propose appointments of the Bank's general manager, assistant gen-
eral manager(s) and department managers to the board of directors;
(f) Appoint, transfer, promote, censure and remove Bank employees and
officials in accordance with the rules adopted by the board of
directors, and account to the board for his decisions.
(g) Contract personnel for set periods as consultants or to furnish or
perform services. In no event shall duties of a hierarchical nature
be assigned to such personnel.
(h) Rule, together with the vice chairman or his replacement and one
director or together with two directors, on matters reserved to the
board of directors, when required to do so for reasons of urgency,
duly accounting for the decision in each case. He shall account to
the board for any decision adopted in this manner at the first suc-
ceeding meeting. Whoever replaces the chairman in the exercise of
his position shall have the same authority.
(i) Assume representation of the institution and grant the powers of
attorney which are required for legal representation of the Bank.
(j) Act and decide on all matters which are not expressly reserved to
the board of directors.
The preceding capacities listed in (f) and (g) may be delegated to the
Vice-Chairman.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Article 19. The following are duties of the board of directors:
(a) To approve Bank policies and programs and guide its activities in
conformity with the economic and financial policies of the National
Government.
(b) To establish rules for the Bank's economic and financial management
in accordance with the preceding item and with the decisions of the
Central Bank of the Argentine Republic; to establish the manner and
conditions of receiving and applying the special funds referred to
in Chapter IX and enter into special agreements authorized in
Chapter X; to determine internal provisions on this matter; to
decide on operations with Bank clients; and to resolve cases that
are not foreseen in the said rules and provisions.
(c) To determine the modalities and conditions of the Bank's operations
and to set the interest rates, discounts, commissions and terms



ANNEX 1
Page 7
of payment applicable to such operations, all within the directives
issued by the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
(d) To annually set and approve the salary, expenditure and investment
budget and the calculation of resources and plan of action of the
Bank, and to submit them to the Ministry of the Economy for informa-
tion.
(e) To establish the schedule of purchases and sales, construction,
rentals and services and other contracts to be followed by the
Bank, as well as the schedule of subsidies and grants.
(f) To establish the Bank's functional organization and to draft its
internal by-laws and administrative and accounting standards.
(g) To open and close branch offices of all kinds and other represen-
tations in the country and abroad, in conformity with the stipu--
lations of Article 5; to establish and eliminate correspondence
relationships and to appoint correspondents.
(h) To draft the by-laws and operating standards and conditions of
foreign branch offices or subsidiaries and the schedule of remune-
ration of Argentine and foreign personnel performing duties there:n,
taking into account for the purpose the laws, banking customs and
mores and traditions of the corresponding country.
(i) To establish the plan for the purchase and sale, under any form of
ownership, of real estate required for the management of the Bank
and also for the construction and refurbishing thereof, assigning
it to its own use in whole or in part and disposing of the unused
portions.
(j) To establish regulations on the purchase of property to protect
the Bank's credits and on its repair, maintenance and disposal.
(k) To approve each year the Bank's general balance sheet, statement
of profits and losses and summary statement, all of which will be
submitted to the National Executive Branch for information and
published in accordance with the provisions of Article 25.
To establish redemptions, depreciation charges, reserve funds and allor'
ances for each fiscal year and, in conformity with the provisions of ArticLe
8, to set the amounts designated for increasing its capital, contributing -o
the special funds authorized by Chapter IX and meeting the programs of sociil
contributions and assistance to Bank employees.
(1) To appoint the Bank's general manager, assistant general managezrs
and department managers upon nomination by the chairman.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
[11) (m)  To draft the Bank's personnel regulations, with reference to all
matters pertaining to hiring conditions, job security, remunera-
tion, promotion, social contributions and assistance, training
and qualifications, disciplinary rules, leaves of absence, dis-
qualifications and separations.
[m]  (n)  To approve agreements for constituting consortia, financial "com-
plementation," and technical or service assistance with public or
private entities of any sort, whether domestic or foreign, as well
as agreements for the participation of the entities authorized in
Article 33, items (p) [(n)] and (u) [(s)]
[n]  (o)  To approve credit reschedulings and waivers of rights.
[n]  (p)  To determine the number of board of directors' committees, estab-
lish their duties and regulate their activities.
The preceding are representative only of the board's duties and do not
prevent the execution of any other action toward fulfilling the purposes of
the institution and attaining its objectives.
Article 20. The short- and medium-term plan of action to be followed by the
Bank starting with the first of January of each year shall be approved yearly
not later than the last meeting of the board of directors held in the month
of November of the preceding year. Said plan shall be prepared in coordination
with the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and forwarded to the Ministry
of the Economy.
Article 21. The chairman, or whoever is acting in his stead, shall convoke
meetings of the board of directors not less than once every fifteen days, or
whenever so requested by three of the members or by the sindico.*
In the meetings, a quor!um shall consist of four members plus the chair-
man or whoever acts in his stead, and decisions shall be adopted by simple
majority vote of those present, except for such matters as have not obtained
approval at the corresponding administrative levels, for which two thirds of
the votes of those present shall be required for adoption.
In the event of a tie, whoever is in the exercise of the chairmanship
shall have a double vote. Voting is mandatory for all members of the board
of directors except for duly grounded disqualification approved by the board.
*    Sindico   (Argentina, Uruguay) Corporation official who keeps check on
the management and on the directors in the interest of all stockholders
and to see that laws are complied with.   (Robb, Dictionary of Legal
Terms, a..) - ToNo



ANNEX 1
Page 9
Article 22. All members of the board of directors shall be jointly and
severally responsible for any decision of the board which violates the
legal standing of the Bank, the regulations on financial institutions or
the provisions of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic, except that
directors as voted against the decision are excepted from this provision.
In like manner, the general manager, the assistant general managers
and the sindico shall be similarly responsible if they have failed to pre-
sent their opposition or disagreement in the minutes of the meeting.
CIHAPTER V
ADMINISTRATION
Article 23. The Bank shall be administered through the general manager and
assistant general managers, all of whom shall be Argentine citizens by birth
or by choice or naturalized citizens with at least ten years of citizenship,
possess recognized capacity in banking, technical and economic matters, not
be affected by the disqualifications stipulated in Article 16 and hold no
other remunerated position except as teachers.
At the proposal of the chairman, the board of directors will appoint the
assistant general manager(s) who will be responsible for discharging the du-
ties of the general manager in the event of the latter's absence or incapac-
ity or of vacancy of his position.
Article 24. The general manager and assistant general managers serve as ad-
visors to the chairman, vice chairman and board of directors. In this capac-
ity, they shall attend the meetings of the board of directors with the right
to speak but not to vote.
The general manager and his office are responsible for ensuring compli-
ance with all standards, regulations and decisions issued by the board of
directors and the chairman and may approve all necessary provisions for their
implementation.
The general manager and assistant general managers will in turn keep
the chairman informed on the operations of the Bank. They can be removed
from their positions only for improper performance of their duties or for
incurring any of the disqualifications stipulated in the Law on Financial
Institutions.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
CHAPTER VI
ACCOUNTS AND STATEMENTS
Article 25. The Bank will operate on a yearly fiscal period ending on the
31st December. Within the term established for financial institutions, the
Bank shall submit its general balance sheet and statement of profits and
losses to the Ministry of the Economy and the Central Bank of the Argentine
Republic, and shall publish them after certification by the Central Bank
of the Argentine Republic.
Article 26. The Bank will publish, each calendar quarter and following its
inspection by the sindico, a statement of assets and liabilities showing the
main accounts of its balance sheet.
Article 27. The Nation shall compensate the Bank through special funds, at
the close of each fiscal year, for any losses it shall have incurred in its
operations of encouragement and development of industry and mining which are
carried out in compliance with specific plans or programs under the corre-
sponding promotion laws previously agreed between the Bank and the Ministry
of the Economy.
CHAPTER VII
SUPERVISION
Article 28. The Bank's compliance with the provisions of this Charter of
Incorporation and with other applicable laws, decrees, decisions and provi-
sions shall be supervised by a sindico appointed by the National Executive
Branch.
The sindico will exercise control over the legitimacy [of the bank's
operations] and accounting procedures. He shall be an attorney, doctor in
economic sciences or national public accountant and shall meet all other
conditions required of the directors. He shall be appointed for a term of
two years, renewable indefinitely.
In the event of the death, resignation or incapacity of the sindico or
of vacancy of the position, a replacement will be appointed to complete his
term of office.
The sindico will be remunerated for his tasks as established by the
National Executive Branch of Government.



ANNIEX 1
Page 11
Article 29. The provisions of the law on accounting shall apply to the Bank
only insofar as the verification that its expnditures are in accordance with
the authorizations contained in its administrative budget, and the presenta-
tions of documented statements of account which it shall periodically submit
to the National Court of Accounts at intervals of not more than one year.
Article 30. The supervision by the sindico shall not prejudice the general
accounting of the institution for which the Central Bank of the Argentine
Republic is responsible according to the provisions of its Charter of
Incorporation.
Article 31. The sindico shall have access to all documents, books and other
materials which bear proof of the Bank's operations, and the Bank's authori-
ties shall facilitate his work by providing him with access to such informa-
tion and with the necessary means therefor.
Article 32. The sindico has the following duties:
(a) To perform any audit, control, review or verification he deems nec-
essary on the operation, accounting, budget and administration of
the Bank, with a view to ensuring that its actions and provisions
conform to the legal and regulatory standards in effect. He will
affix his signature to the year-end balance sheets and the general
statements of profits and losses.
(b) To attend the meetings of the Bank's board of directors, with the
right to the floor but not to vote.
(c) To request a call for meeting of the board of directors whenever
he deems it necessary for consideration of matters pertaining to
the performance of his duties.
(d) To report to the board of directors and the National Executive
Branch, through the Ministry of the Economy, on the operational
management of the institution.
In the performance of his duties, he shall be subject to the responsi-
bilities established for his position by the laws of the Nation.
CHAPTER VIII
OPERATIONS
Article 33. The Bank, acting alone or with the participation of other domes-
tic or foreign organizations, shall perform all operations proper to banks,
as well as any other operations or services necessary for attaining its
objectives.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
In particular, it may:
(a) Accept all kinds of demand and time deposits.
(b) Collect funds for special accounts.
(c) Issue bonds and other securities, certificates of participation
and other securities in general, in the country and abroad and in
domestic or foreign currency, with the agreement of the Central
Bank of the Argentine Republic and the approval of the Ministry
of the Economy.
(d) Obtain credits domestically or abroad and act as intermediary for
credits obtained in domestic or foreign currency.
(e) Grant long-, medium- and short-term credit.
(f) Participate in a limited manner, by contributing risk capital, in
the financing of private industrial or mining projects in priority
sectors and sectors which are of interest to regional development.
This participation shall be subject to the condition that the Bank
shall dispose of it not more than three years after the corporation
offers its shares for trading in the stock market, which it will be
required to do in the investment contract.
(g) Grant or guarantee overall credits to provincial, official or mixed
banks, consortia of financial organizations, and banks which con-
duct medium- and long-term operations, for them to administer within
financing guidelines to be established by the Bank.
(h) Grant development credits for technical and scientific research
applied to industry and mining and for contracting studies on the
same topics.
(i) Grant surety bonds, loan guarantees and other types of warranties
in domestic or foreign currency.
(j) Purchase capital goods, technology and patents for resale or lease
to industrial and mining firms.
(k) Act as trustee of received funds and invest them, for the account
and risk of their principals, in the promotion and financing of
projects leading to its [BANADE's] objectives.
(1) Grant and accept powers of attorney related to its operations,
exercise trusts in general, act as depository of common investment
funds and administer securities portfolios.



ANNEX 1
Page 13
Appoint directors, sindicos, trustees and auditors to firms and
consortia in which it owns an interest.
[11] (m)  Buy, sell, subscribe, underwrite, pay for or guarantee the payment
of securities, and act as placement agent, alone or as part of a
consortium. Accept securities and documents as custodian and rent
safe-deposit boxes.
[m]  (n)  Take part in matters pertaining to foreign trade and conduct for-
eign exchange operations.
En]  (o)  Promote the constitution of consortia which have the objective of
developing and fostering Argentine exports. Participate in them
or in existing ones with domestic financial organizations and other
public and private entities, both domestically and abroad, and
also participate with foreign or international entities, subject
to the favorable opinion of the Central Bank of the Argentine Re-
public and express authorization of the Ministry of the Economy.
[n]  (p)  Promote the establishment of firms abroad for the purpose of facil-
itating the export of Argentine goods, services and technology, in
which it may participate, subject to a favorable opinion of the
Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and express authorization
from the Ministry of the Economy, by means of contributions of
capital goods, subscriptions, payment for stock shares, debentures
or any other type of securities, or grants of financing.
[o]  (q)  With prior favorable opinion from the Central Bank of the Argentine
Republic and express authorization from the Ministry of the Econ-
omy, buy, sell and administer assets domestically and abroad, in-
sofar as such operations are related to the fostering or financing
of foreign trade.
Lp]  (r)  Offer any services necessary to facilitate the development of for-
eign trade, framing its actions within internationally competitive
policies.
[q]  (s)  Conclude agreements on financial complementation and technical
or service assistance with domestic and foreign public and private
entities.
Er]  (t)  Perform assistance and technical cooperation activities leading to
the preparation and execution of projects related to the Bank's
objectives, and provide advisory services to industrial and mining
firms and to official, private and mixed banks or other entities.



ANNEX 1
Page 14
[sI  (u)  Constitute, promote or participate in the creation or establishment
of investment banks, consortia or international banking organiza-
tions, whether acting independently or in association with other
domestic, foreign or international financial entities or public or
private organizations, domestically or abroad, which have the ob-
jective of conducting operations in the country or abroad with main
offices in the Argentine Republic or abroad, subject to prior au-
thorization from the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic and
express approval from the Ministry of the Economy, by subscrib-
ing and paying for stock shares, debentures or any other type of
security.
[t]  (v)  Exercise control over the management of projects in which it inter-
venes or which it finances, in order to ensure compliance with the
appropriate objectives.
[u]  (w)  Act as correspondent, agent or representative of other domestic or
foreign banks and financial entities, and route domestic and for-
*eign credit operations through them.
[v]  (x)  Effect temporary investments in public debt instruments quoted in
the stock market, up to 10% of its capital and non-assigned re-
serves.
[w]  (y)  Establish promotional systems for marketing of mineral ores.
[x]  (z)  Perform all kinds of operations and offer all services needed by
the market which are consistent with the objectives listed in
Article 3.
[y] (aa) Conduct all kinds of operations authorized for commercial and in-
vestment banks, and in general any operations which correspond to
other financial institutions, subject in the latter case to prior
authorization from the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.
Article 34. The Bank shall not:
(a) Grant credits to the Nation, provinces or municipalities, nor to
their autonomous agencies, except for those operations financed
with special funds covered in Chpter IX or with funds from special
agreements in which the Bank represents the National Government as
authorized in Chapter X. This prohibition does not apply to commer-
cial, industrial or service firms of the Nation or of the provinces
or municipalities or to firms which belong in whole or in part to
any of these governments but which are authorized to enter into
contracts as private parties, provided such firms have independent
capital base, are not financed by State appropriations and have
sufficient resources to meet their obligations toward the Bank.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
(b) Participate with risk capital contributions in firms a majority
of whose capital stock is owned by the Nation or by provinces or
municipalities.
(c) Purchase real estate, except as necessary for its own use and as
it deems appropriate to protect its credits, with the exception
stipulated in Article 19, item (j) of this Charter of Incorporation.
CHAPTER IX
SPECIAL FUNDS
Article 35. The Bank may establish and administer special funds to finance
special programs, economic infrastructure projects and social promotion.
Such funds may be utilized to grant credits or guarantees with longer
repayment periods, longer grace periods and lower interest rates than those
required by the Bank in its ordinary operations, whose technical, financial
and economic requirements should nevertheless be applied.
Article 36. The bank shall establish special rules and regulations as may be
necessary for the creation, administration and application of the resources
of each of the special funds.
Article 37. These funds shall be constituted with:
(a) assignment of net realized profits, as authorized in Article 8,
item (c) of this Charter;
(b) resoures specifically assigned to it by the National Government for
the purpose;
(c) resources agreed to with provincial or municipal governments for
the purpose;
(d) development credits obtained by the bank from domestic or foreign
financial institutions and from international organizations;
(e) special contributions from domestic, foreign and international
entities, grants and subsidies;
(f) funds received in trust for the purpose;
(g) recoveries and profits from the operations of the special funds.



ANNEX I
Page 16
Article 38. The resources listed in Article 37 shall be added to the special
funds subject to the conditions set at the time of the establishment of each
such fund and shall not be used in any manner that is not consistent with said
conditions or with the objectives and purposes of the Bank.
Article 39. No resources from the Bank's capital or reserves or from funds
obtained or collected by the Bank for assignment to its ordinary operations
shall be employed in any operation of the special funds.
Article 40. The agreements which establish the special funds, and the regu-
lations pertaining thereto, shall be consistent with the provisions of this
Charter.
Article 41. The special funds shall be administered, used, committed, in-
vested and in all fashions disposed of completely independently of the
Bank's other, ordinary operations, and each special fund, as well as its
resources and accounting, shall be kept completely separate from all other
special funds.
The Bank's capital and reserves shall not be used to meet losses or
obligations incurred as a result of the operations of any of the special
funds.
The resources of any of the special funds shall not be used to meet
losses or obligations incurred as a result of operations or other activities
of the Bank which are financed with ordinary resources or with resources
from any other special fund.
Article 42. With regard to the operations or other activities of any of the
special funds, the Bank's liability shall be limited to the resources of the
said special fund which are available to the bank.
Article 43. The Bank's financial accounts and statements shall show its or-
dinary operations and its special operations separately. Expenses related
to ordinary operations shall be charged against the ordinary resources of
the Bank, and expenses which correspond directly to special operations shall
be charged against the resources of the special funds. Any other expense
shall be debited as determined by the Bank.
Article 44. The current portfolio of special operations related to any of
the special funds shall not at any time exceed the total amount of uncom-
mitted resources belonging to the said special fund which are available to
the Bank.



ANNEX 1
Page 17
CHAPTER X
SPECIAL FINANCIAL AGREEMENTS
Article 45. The Bank, as an auxiliary entity in the service of the Treasury
and acting for account and by order of the National Government, may enter into
contracts and operations with foreign institutions to assist in the financing
of investment projects considered important for the country's development, in
those sectors in which it is competent. These operations will be accounted
for separately from the Bank's ordinary operations.
CHAPTER XI
PRIVILEGES AND SPECIAL FORECLOSURE
Article 46. First and second mortgages [and other liens] of any nature
constituted in favor of BANADE shall enjoy the same prerogatives and priv-
ileges as and shall be governed by the special foreclosure provisions
granted by law to the National Mortgage Bank.
The documents of the Mortgage Registry shall remain in validity until
the complete liquidation of the mortgage obligation, notwithstanding the
provisions of the civil code on the matter. The limitation established in
Article 3936 of the civil code, with reference to expiration of privilege
due to lack of execution, also does not apply to the Bank's mortgage loans.
Moreover, in the case of operations of any nature which are to be
backed with mortgages, including mortgages on vessels, aircraft or mines,
the Bank may decide to have them "pre-noted" [i.e., to have a provisional
notation of pending suit or controverted real property right made in the
Property Registry (Robb)] by means of an official letter addressed to the
appropriate public registry, which notation shall remain in effect for 180
calendar days without prejudice to its extension for a like period as many
times as necessary. Said provisional notation shall have the nature of a
real encumbrance and shall give to the Bank a special privilege correspond-
ing to the guarantee on the assigned property for the total amount of the
capital, interest and other costs and incidental charges owed, according to
the same provisions which govern mortgages constituted in favor of the Na-
tional Mortgage Bank.
The legal provisions which govern provisional notations of mortgages
shall apply to all matters not in opposition to the provisions of this
article.



ANNEX 1
Page 18
Article      Whenever a mortgage or lien recorded in foreign currency is
constituted in favor of the Bank, in guaranty of loan guarantees granted
in favor of a Bank client for an obligation of the latter toward a foreign
party or of direct obligations of such a client resulting from lines of
credit granted abroad, the privilege deriving from such real rights shall be
effective up to the total sum of the obligation in foreign currency. In
this case, the instruments will be recorded in the appropriate registry
without necessarily having the amount estimated in Argentine currency except
for the sole purpose of the corresponding tax obligation.
Article 48. Requests for loans to be secured with property already assigned
to the Bank may be considered as enlargements of the original credit, in
which case they shall be recorded with the same right of preference as the
original mortgage. For this purpose, mortgage registries shall enter the
total amount of the Bank's loans as a first mortgage whenever no prior lien
exists which would prevent it.
Any taxes or fiscal charges payable on such operations shall apply
solely to the amount of the additional loan granted unless an exemption is
applicable.
Article 49. The Bank shall require that all goods assigned to it in guar-
anty of loans be insured against any risks it deems appropriate.
CHAPTER XII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 50. The Bank, as a part of the official banking system, will main-
tain its relations with the National Executive Branch through the Central
Bank of the Argentine Republic.
Article 51. As an agency of the National Government, the Bank is subject
solely to federal jurisdiction. When it is a plaintiff in judgment, federal
jurisdiction shall apply concurrently with that of the provincial courts and
the federal national jurisdiction of the Federal Capital on civil and commer-
cial matters shall apply concurrently with that of the national common courts.
It is empowered not to claim jurisdictional exception when performing
commercial activities in foreign countries as a private person.
Article 52. The property of the Bank, whatever its origin or destination,
including that acquired in defense of or payment for its credits, and its
representatives shall be exempted from the payment of all national taxes and
contributions, as shall also the Bank's operations from the portion of the
taxes thereon other than that which is payable by third parties. Moreover,



ANNEX 1
Page 19
this exemption shall extend to bonds, other securities, certificates of par-
ticipation and securities in general issued by the Bank, to the income de-
rived therefrom and to the income arising from the savings collection
systems.
The Bank will negotiate possible exemptions with the provinces and
municipalities.
Article 53. All documents and contracts pertaining to the constitution,
granting amortization, extension, renewal, registration and liquidation of
operations convened with the Bank shall be exempt from the national revenue
stamp tax. The National Executive Branch will arrange for the adherence of
the provinces to this exemption.
Article 54. The chairman [of the board] of the Bank, or whoever is acting
in his stead, shall provide testimony in judgment in writing and shall not
be required to appear in person.
Article 55. Except as expressly stipulated to the contrary by law, any rule
of a general nature which has been or shall be established with application
to the organs of the national public administration, whatever be their judi-
cial nature, and which entails restrictions to the authority or capacities
granted to the Bank in this charter of incorporation, shall not apply to the
Bank. When the Bank operates in foreign countries as a private person, the
provisions of the Law on Financial Institutions and of regulations issued
thereunder shall not be applicable.
Article 56. The initial terms of office of the officials mentioned in Arti-
cle 11 hereof shall extend from the date of appointment of the present
chairman, namely 27 April 1976.
Article 57. Without prejudice to the faculties conferred upon the Central
Bank of the Republic of Argentina, as modified, the provisions of Law No.
21526 will apply to the Banco Nacional de Desarrollo insofar as they are
compatible with its objectives.
Article 58. Law 20758 and all provisions contrary hereto are repealed.
Article 59. Communicate, publish, deliver to the National Director of the
Official Register, and file.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
Statement of Policy 1/
The Board of Directors of the Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE)
adopts the following declaration of objectives and policies as basic guide-
lines to orient the activities of the institution:
1.        General Objective
In order to continue to accelerate the harmonious process of the
country's economic and social development in conformity with the policies,
directives, plans and programs established by the National Government, the
Banco Nacional de Desarrollo will have the primary objective of supporting
the development of the country's industry, mining and economic infrastructure,
and particularly their private sectors, by financing projects and programs
which meet satisfactory economic, financial and technical conditions in the
judgement of the Bank, which should in every case weigh the impact of each
project on the economy of the sector, the region and the country in general.
In the same manner, and utilizing the resources from special funds mentioned
below, it will support the development of economic infrastructure and social
promotion through development credits.
In short, the Bank should be a responsive and imaginative institu-
tion with the primary goals of:
1.1       Promoting the nation's industrial and mining development through
medium- and long-term investment credit, active participation in
the foreign trade of these sectors, and complementary financing
of their development needs; and
1.2       Obtaining a continuous flow of short-, medium- and long-term
domestic and foreign resources in a volume consistent with the
preceding requirements.
2.        Special Objectives
In conformity with its general objective, BANADE will promote and
participate in the long-, medium- and short-term financing of projects in
order to:
2.1       Establish, expand and modernize productive activities in the
industrial field, with special emphasis on base industries,
industries in priority regions and exporting industries;
2.2       Encourage and promote the mining sector;
2.3       Enlarge and improve the economic infrastructure;
1/   Official translation (from Spanish).



ANNEX 2
Page 2
2.4       Strengthen small and medium firms;
2.5       Improve private firms to achieve efficient operating conditions
within a reasonable period;
2.6       Develop and expand a sound, professional and efficient private
investment banking system;
2.7       Develop a national medium- and long-term capital market;
2.8       Develop technical and scientific research activities applied to
industry and mining.
3.        General Policies
3.1       With the objective of ensuring that sufficient resources are
available to meet its investment requirements, the Bank will
supplement its own resources by:
3.1.1     Attracting demand and time deposits;
3.1.2     Issuing bonds, obligations, certificates of participation in
loans granted by it, and other instruments negotiable in the
local market or abroad;
3.1.3     Participating in the domestic medium- and long-term capital
market;
3.1.4     Participating in the money market;
3.1.5     Obtaining foreign credits and acting as intermediary in credits
obtained in domestic or foreign currency;
3.1.6     Entering into agreements with domestic and international financial
organizations;
3.1.7     [Negotiating for] foreign bilateral lines of credit;
3.1.8     Participating in foreign capital markets by placing its securities;
3.1.9     Establishing complementation agreements with other financial
entities, bilaterally, multilaterally or by constituting consortia.
3.2       With the objective of attaining the above-mentioned objectives, the
Bank will:
3.2.1     Employ modern project analysis techniques to study the technical,
financial and economic feasibility of projects whose financing is
proposed to it;



ANNEX 2
Page 3
3.2.2     Require that the projects to be financed be capable of generating
sufficient resources to repay the credit and the interest on it
in real terms;
3.2.3     Require that firms, whether public or private, that request its
financial support have satisfactory financial structure, manage-
ment, organization and profitability;
3.2.4     Administer the resources allocated to it by the State for
financing its own firms, striving to ensure that they will be
optimally applied and using the same technical criteria for
selection and evaluation as it does for its other operations;
3.2.5     Perform the necessary follow-up and control in projects in which
it participates;
3.2.6     Provide technical and managerial assistance;
3.2.7     Encourage the incorporation of new technology and the improvement
of existing technology;
3.2.8     Coordinate its activities with those of other financial institu-
tions--public, private, domestic or foreign;
3.2.9     Promote and support the formation of consortia of financial
organizations for specific purposes and the conclusion of comple-
mentation agreements with public and private, domestic and
foreign investment and commercial banks;
3.2.10    Promote the modernization of existing equipment and facilities;
3.2.11    Conduct all its medium- and long-term operations so as to recover
its capital in real terms, without prejudice to its capacity to
set terms of payment and interest rates to meet established goals
and priorities;
3.2.12    Diversify its loans by economic sector and by geographic regions;
3.2.13    Work together with provincial official and mixed banks for provid-
ing joint financing to small and medium-size firms of the interior,
particularly those located far from the large urban areas;
3.2.14    Participate in the financing of social promotion projects;
3.2.15    Develop the activities of its system of branch offices as
instruments for efficiently obtaining and allocating resources
in the interior of the country;



ANNEX 2
Page 4
3.2.16    Increase its participation in its clients' imports and exports,
and generally promote foreign trade operations.
3.3       The need to become a responsive and competent institution to
attain the above-mentioned ends implies improving the Bank's
operating structure to international efficiency levels, for
which purpose the Bank will:
3.3.1     Train and develop its staff, establishing competitive
remuneration schedules;
3.3.2     Streamline its organizational structure and rationalize
operating systems, procedures and standards;
3.3.3     Develop an information system in agreement with the planning,
administrative and control requirements of the Board of
Directors and Management.
4.        Financial Policies
4.1       Total Indebtedness
4.1.1     BANADE will not exceed at 10:1 ratio of short-, medium- and
long-term debt, and contingent liabilities to net equity;
4.1.2     The above ratio will not include liabilities to BCRA* nor
contingent liabilities exempted by BCRA.
4.2       Liquidity
4.2.1     BANADE will strive to make its funds application schedules
consistent with its funds availability schedules, so as to
safeguard the necessary liquidity of the institution;
4.2.2     In the event that the market prevents funds from becoming
available as mentioned in the preceding item, BANADE will
strive to maintain a ratio of collection to application of
funds which will ensure it against fluctuations in the supply
of funds.
4.3       Foreign Currency Indebtedness
4.3.1     In principle, BANADE will pass on the foreign exchange risk
to local borrowers.
Central Bank of the Argentine Republic.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
4.3.2     If it should decide to lend such funds in pesos, it will strive
to have that risk covered through the term of the loan and through
indexation.
4.4       Internal Resources
4.4.1     BANADE will utilize its equity resources for project lending
operations at terms that will result in the maintenance of their
real value.
4.5       Special Funds
4.5.1     The Bank may establish and administer special funds for the
financing of special programs, and of economic infrastructure
and social promotion projects.
4.5.2     These funds shall be constituted through the assignment of net
realized profits, resources specifically designated by the
national, provincial, or municipal governments for such purposes,
and special contributions from domestic and foreign entities.
4.5.3     These funds may be utilized to grant credits or guarantees with
extended terms and grace periods, lower interest rates compared
to ordinary operations, but maintaining the usual technical,
financial and economic standards applied to ordinary operations.
4.5.4     The special funds will be kept completely separate from ordinary
operations of the Bank, and each special fund, its resources
and accounts, shall be kept cotapletely separate from all other
special funds.
4.5.5     The Bank's ordinary resources shall not be utilized to undertake
operations corresponding to special funds and shall not be used
to meet losses or obligations incurred as a result of the operations
of any special fund. The resources of any special fund shall not be
used to meet losses or obligations incurred as a result of operations
or other activities of the Bank which are financed with ordinary
resources or with resources from any source other than the specific
fund involved.
4.5.6     With regard to special fund operations, the Bank's liability
shall be limited to the resources pertaining to the corresponding
special fund.
4.6       Regular Operations
4.6.1     Medium- and long-term loans granted by BANADE shall not exceed
80% of the cost of projects which the Bank has studied and for
which it has determined technical, economic and financial
feasibility.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
4.6.2     These loans shall not exceed 150% of the outstanding equity of
the borrower.
4.6.3     Sho-:t-term loans granted by BANADE shall not exceed 30% of the
outstaEcling equity of the borrower. In addition, the borrower
shall not- exceed the limit fixed by the BCRA for all its banking
credit.
4.6.4     The sum of the short-term loans and guarantees granted to any
borrower may not exceed 50% of the medium- and long-term loans
granted to it by BANADE.
4.6.5     The t otal guarantees issued by BANADE in favor of any single
client shall not exceed 150% of the client's funded indebtedness.
4.6.6     The total exposure of BANADE, including both loans and guarantees,
to any single borrower shall not exceed 200% of the borrower's
caD&Jtal and reserves. In addition, clients shall not exceed a
total debt/equity limitation of 3:1.
4.6.7     The total exposure of BANADE to any firm, whether public or
private, shall not exceed 30% of BANADE's outstanding equity.
5.        Resource Allocation Policy
5.1       General Credit Orientation
5.1.1     BANADE's activities will tend to give priority to the coverage of
medium- and long-term financing needs.
5.1.2     Official criteria on the location of projects and on sectors
deemed of priority by the Government will be followed.
5.1.3     BANADE will consider the effect that the projects it finances
wil1 have on the country's balance of payments and will give
preference to those which absorb a large proportion of domestic
inpu';s and are internationally competitive. It will weigh the
effects they will have on settlement, and particularly whether
they contribute to increasing potential employment in the region
and employment of technicians and skilled workers.
5.1e4     In the regional allocation of resources, it will be sought to
have the interior receive at least as much resources as were
obtained there.
5.1.5     BARADE will invest its resources in operations which yield a
return, selecting those projects which make the greatest
contribution to development and possess adequate economic and
financial rates of return, and in firms which are well organized
EThQ have good market prospects.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
5.1.6     BANADE will adopt sound economic and financial criteria in all
its operations, including the granting of loan guarantees, so as
to ensure the integrity of its assets and a prudent ratio of
assets to liabilities.
5.2       Medium- and Long-term Operations
5.2.1     Loans granted by BANADE may be used to:
- purchase and install machinery and equipment;
- build, enlarge or renovate buildings to be used for firm
operations and exceptionally, to purchase such buildings;
- supplement the financing of working capital requirements;
- provide technical assistance and perform and finance
feasibility studies and programs designed to improve the
firm's efficiency;
- improve the financial structure of basically sound firms
undergoing circumstantial problems.
5.2.2     Loan repayment periods will be established according to the
nature and requirements of each project, with a grace period
on capital repayments until the project become operational.
5.2.3     A schedule of disbursements, related to the schedule of
investments, will be established at the time each loan is
granted.
5.2.4     The beneficiary should pay a commitment commission on non-disbursed
balances.
5.2.5     BANADE will set a realistic rate of interest for its operations,
taking into account the cost of the funds it obtains and the
prevailing market interest rate structure. It will follow
similar criteria in determining commissions and other fees it
charges on its operations.
5.3       Short-term Operations
5.3.1     In its commercial banking operations, BANADE will give special
consideration to the short-term credit needs of small and medium
firms.
5.3.2     It will base these operations on the lending capacity generated
by the short-term funds it attracts.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
5.3.3     In its operations with private and state clients, it will
generally try to obtain banking business in the same proportion
as that of its debts to the client's total bank indebtedness.
5.3.4     In its commercial operations, BANADE will maintain an equilibrium
consistent with its primary objective as an investment bank.
5.4       Operations with Foreign Countries
5.4.1     BANADE will be one of the principal factors of promotion of
foreign operations of the industrial and mining sectors.
5.4.2     It will take steps to obtain overall foreign resources to allow
industry and mining to have access to financing for their imports
in the best possible terms.
5.4.3     It will promote industrial and mining exports which are serious
continuing efforts in favor of the country's foreign trade, and
will cooperate in identifying, obtaining and maintaining foreign
markets.
5.4.4     BANADE will promote the establishment abroad, especially in
neighboring countries, of industrial and mining enterprises in
which Argentine firms participate.
5.5       Investment Promotion
5.5.1     BANADE will follow an active policy of promoting new investment
opportunities, taking advantage of its extensive contacts with
the various sectors of the national economy.
5.5.2     It will use all appropriate means to identify new projects,
including surveys, pre-investment studies and feasibility
studies, and will strive to have these efforts be in all cases
the most specific and realistic ones for the intended purpose.
It may recover the costs it incurs in whole or in part,
according to their amount and to the nature of the project
in question.
5.5.3     It may prepare proposals designed to obtain a more economic
scale by establishing new firms or merging or enlarging existing
ones, and search for domestic and foreign partners or lenders
for them. To make such proposals more viable, BANADE may
participate as a provider of funds by granting loan guarantees
or acting as a placement agent for their securities.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
5.6       Project Selection, Evaluation and Follow-Up
5.6.1.    BANADE will finance only projects which are technically,
economically and financially feasible, offer good administrative
prospects and have sufficient market for their output. These
requirements will apply to all operations in which BANADE takes
part, irrespective of the beneficiary.
5.6.2     The usual techniques used to measure financial and economic
rates of return will be employed for evaluating projects.
5.6.3     BANADE will ensure that each project is fully financed,
including its working capital requirements.
5.6.4     BANADE will seek to ensure that the financing of a project in
its various aspects is not linked to its sources of supply,
that suppliers do not play a predominant role in the design
and drafting of the technical specifications for the project,
and that purchases of goods and services are subdivided and
effected as far as possible through competitive bidding or
similar procedures, so as to obtain the highest levels of
cost effectiveness consistent with the requirements of the
project.
5.6.5     The Bank may require a beneficiary firm to offer part of its
capital stock for sale in the capital market in an amount and
under terms that will be agreed to in each case, with the
objective of diversifying its ownership.
5.6.6     Financing may be made contingent on the beneficiary firm
complying with organizational, technical or other improve-
ment programs designed to increase its level of efficiency.
5.6.7     The Bank may require the option of converting a portion or all
of the credit it grants to a firm into shares of the firm's
capital stock. The conversion conditions will be agreed in
advance in each case.
5.6.8     The Bank will supervise each project from the beginning and
will authorize liquidation of the loan subject to verification
that the conditions established in the loan agreement have been
fulfilled.
5.6.9     It will provide technical assistance to firms, particularly
small and medium ones, for their preparation of projects.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
5.6.10    During the project execution stage, BANADE may request information
in writing and send inspection teams to the firm; for this purpose,
BANADE will have access to all information related to the project,
incliudi2g those aspects it does not finance directly.
5.6.11    As Long as a loan is in effect, BANADE will have the authority
to request i'nformation and adopt precautionary measures to ensure
the viability of the project and/or to safeguard its interests,
if the controls effected suggest that the objectives sought with
the financing are not being complied with.
5.7       Protection of Credit
5.7.1     To protect its credit, and also to improve the financing structure,
BANADE may restrict the firm's power to distribute profits or
authorize withdrawals by directors or partners.
5.7.2     Tne Bank may also impose conditions on the contracting of new
debts by beneficiary firms.
5.7.3     Beneficiaries should obtain insurance to cover satisfactorily,
in the Bank's judgement, all risks inherent to the firm's
operations, and particularly on the goods financed or accepted
as guaranteed by the Bank.
5.8       Requirements for Credit Beneficiaries
5.8.1     BANADE will devote its resources primarily to the establishment
o' new private firms and to the financing of enlargements or
modernization of existing ones.
5.8.2     In the case of already established firms which apply for
financing, BANADE will review their prior history and ensure
that they are not in arrears in the repayment of capital or
interest on obligations to the Bank or to other parties and
that they have a good commercial or banking record.
5.8.3     BAINADE will conduct no operations with clients which have
claimed exceptions in judgement against it or whose credits
have been liquidated with discounts or allowances.
5.8.4     The ratio of a beneficiary firm's total indebtedness to BANADE
andi other parties, including its contingent liabilities, to its
technically adjusted net assets shall not exceed 3:1.
509       Loan Guarantees
5.9.1     BANADE will grant loan guarantees for loans approved by domestic
or foreign organizations for use in investment financing by
firms0



ANNEX 2
Page 11
5.9.2     In such operations, it will ensure that they meet the same
technical, economic and financial conditions it requires for
credit operations.
5.9.3     In the case of operations with the State, BANADE will grant or
deny loan guarantees according to the merits of the operation
and independently of the SEH guarantee.
5.9.4     BANADE will accept as guarantee a coparticipation in tax
receipts, provided there exists a budget item in the corre-
sponding province which calls for the investment and that
the appropriation does not exceed 10% of the said coparticipa-
tion.
5.10      Participation in the Capital of Firms and Clients
5.10.1    BANADE may participate in the capital of firms by subscribing
to new share issues of private corporations.
5.10.2    As a general rule, BANADE may not subscribe to shares for a
cumulative amount higher than 20% of its own capital stock and
general reserves.
5.10.3    The subscribed amount may not exceed 10% of the subscribed
capital of the beneficiary firm.
5.10.4    In such operations, BANADE will play the role of a catalytic
agent to attract other investment and to improve the project's
capital structure, and it should dispose of its holdings as
soon as market circumstances are appropriate.
5.10.5    With the objective of facilitating the sale of the stock,
BANADE will make its contribution contingent on the firm's
offering its stock for sale in the securities market within
a period to be specified on a case-by-case basis.
5.11      Operations with the State
5.11.1    BANADE will not grant credits to the Nation, provinces or
municipalities, nor to any of their independent agencies.
5.11.2    This prohibition does not apply to commercial, industrial,
financial or service firms of the Nation or of provincial or
municipal governments, nor to firms which are owned in whole
or in part by any of these governments and which are authorized
to celebrate contracts as private persons, provided they have
an independent capital base, do not subsist in whole or in part
from State appropriations and have sufficient resources to meet
their obligations toward the Bank.



Avi'd4X 2
Page 12
5.11.3    This prohibition also does not apply to the operations comprised
in the following sections 12 and 13.
5.11.4    State firms should meet requirements similar to those required of
private firms, even if the debt is guaranteed by the Nation or
provinces.
5.11.5    BANADE may not invest risk capital in such firms nor act as an
intermediary to convey Treasury subsidies to them.
5.12      Financing of Infrastructure and Social Promotion Projects
5.12.1    BANADE will participate only extraordinarily in the financing
of infrastructure works, and such participation will be limited
to works linked to industrial and mining development projects.
5.12.2    Grants of loans and other forms of assistance in preferential
amortization and interest terms will be contingent on the
availability of funds previously appropriated for the purpose
in accordance with Section 4.5.
5.12.3    BANADE will limit its participation in financing of this type
of works which:
- are linked to industrial and mining development projects;
are implemented in boundary areas or areas of geopolitical
or social priority.
5.12.4    BANADE will seek to ensure that such projects develop within
traditionally employed guidelines on economic profitability
and repayment capacity.
5.13      Operations with Official and Mixed Provincial Banks
and Other Investment Banks
5.13.1    BANADE may grant credits to these institutions, provided that
they channel the funds to new projects which meet the same
economic and financial return conditions required by BANADE
in its own operations.
5.13.2    These operations will have the objectives of supporting the
development of medium- and long-term financing and of
decentralizing the analysis of such projects.
5.13.3    Guidelines will be established on the characteristics to be
met by the projects and on the loans.



ANNEX 2
Page 13
5.13.4    BANADE will oversee the compliance with such guidelines and
the development of these institutions within a sound economic
and financial situation and an efficient operational ability.
5.14      Consortia with Other Domestic or Foreign, Public or Private
Financial Organizations
5.14.1    BANADE may participate jointly in the financing of large-scale
projects with other financial institutions.
5.14.2    The above-mentioned joint participation may cover not only
short-, medium- and long-tert funds but also the granting of
guarantees.
5.14.3    In all cases, it will be ensured that the projects meet the
standard conditions of economic and financial profitability.
5.15      Operations with Private Firms Operating at a Loss
5.15.1    BANADE will not conduct operations with firms which are operating
at a loss except:
- to protect its credits;
- to comply with a financial improvement program required of
the firm by BANADE.
5.15.2    In the case that a firm comes under BANADE's control in the
future, the Bank will seek to return it to private ownership
as quickly as possible consistent with the protection of its
interests.
5.16      Operations in the interior
5.16.1    BANADE will develop its operations in the interior in order
to attend to its development needs, satisfying primarily the
requirements of small- and medium-size firms, and will seek to
attain optimum operating efficiency in its branch offices.
6.        Resource Mobilization Policies
6.1       Mobilization of Short-term Deposits
6.1.1     BANADE will exert efforts to obtain short-term deposits.
6.2       Participation in the Short-term Market
6.2.1     BANADE will develop its participation in the short-term market,
in order to adequately meet the needs of its clients.



ANNEX 2
Page 14
6.3       Participation in the Medium-term Market
6.3.1     BANADE will develop the mobilization of medium-term funds as
an important source of funds for its investment financing
operations, taking into account the liquidity requirements
mentioned in Section 4.2 in structuring its operations.
6.4       Issuance of Bonds and Other Securities
6.4.1     BANADE will participate in the mobilization of domestic medium-
and long-term funds by issuing bonds, obligations, certificates
of participation in its loans and other securities, quotable
or not, in domestic or foreign currency, negotiable in the
country or abroad, and with or without monetary indexing clauses.
6.5       Mobilization of Foreign Resources
6.5.1     The Bank will seek to obtain from international organizations
and foreign banks the maximum amount of financial resources
consistent with the country's monetary policy and its own
requirements.
6.5.2     These operations will have the objective of benefiting the
productive sector with the most favorable relative conditions
obtainable in worldwide operations, shaping an image abroad
which will allow it to resort repeatedly to these sources of
financing, and making use of the experience and knowhow of
those organizations.
6.5.3     The initial objective is to demonstrate the institution's
capacity to rapidly and efficiently appraise and process
investment projects which can utilize the obtained lines of
credit and direct loans, and to negotiate their expansion
as soon as the available margins are reduced.
6.5.4     In later stages, medium-term Bank paper will be offered in
foreign markets, intended to increase freely available funds;
and later yet, as soon as the market permits, long-term bonds
will be added to them.
6.6       Investments in Capital Stock
6.6.1     The Bank's policy is to recover resources invested in its stock
portfolio so as to reinvest them in the new investment projects
required by the industrial development of the country.



ANNEX 2
Page 15
6.6.2     Several alternate mechanismB are foreseen for the sale of stock
owned by the Bank, so as to allow for the different circumstances
of the various firms; the basic objective is to respect the
trends of the stock market and to produce the smallest possible
changes in the situation of controlling and minority stockholders.
6.7       Consortia with Financial Institutions
6.7.1     BANADE should become a catalytic, dynamic factor in the medium-
and long-term financial market, in regard both to the development
of sources of financing and to the promotion of investment oppor-
tunities in sound, profitable projects.
6.7.2     In order to attain this goal, BANADE cannot restrict itself to
its own means and resources, but must rather coordinate its
activities with the other financial institutions which play a
part in this market; in view of the magnitude of its means and
its previous actions, it must assume a leadership position that
will permit it to multiply the potential of its own resources.
6.7.3     BANADE may obtain resources for its purposes through other
financial institutions, by placing with or through them:
- bonds, obligations and other negotiable instruments it issues;
- certificates of participation in the loans it grants;
- discounts of its loan portfolio;
- drafts and bills.
6.7.4     BANADE may act as intermediary in the placement or replacement of
its clients' paper with institutions with which it is joined in
consortia.
7.        Operating Policy
7.1       Organization
7.1.1     BANADE's organization will tend to make possible the most
appropriate compliance with these policies and to attain the
highest possible levels of operational efficiency.
7.1.2     To this end, it will maintain its functions, standards and
operating procedures up to date and will ensure that available
resources are effectively utilized.



ANNEX 2
Page 16
7.1.3     BANADE will evaluate continually its managerial efficiency and
will introduce changes in its organization necessary to maintain
a high level of efficiency.
7.2       Personnel
7.2.1     In order to better comply with its purposes, BANADE will maintain
a qualified staff composed of the number and specializations of
personnel required by the institution's needs.
7.2.2     In order to encourage its personnel and furnish them with an
incentive for improvement, BANADE will set an adequate level of
remuneration, grant professional specialization scholarships,
establish an internal training program and generally carry out
a sound policy of personnel development.
7.3       Information System
7.3.1     BANADE's accounts shall be kept in accordance with sound accounting
and control principles and practices, so as to better reflect its
economic and financial condition, facilitate the analysis of its
development both overall and by sector, control its loan portfolio,
control expenditures and enable financial and economic tables and
projections to be prepared in constant value terms.
7.3.2     On the basis of its accounting and operational information, the
Bank will establish a management information system to permit
effective planning, management and control of its operations.
7.3.3     For this purpose, BANADE will determine the information require-,
ments of each management level and operational sector, up to the
Board of Directors, to provide to each level and sector informa-'
tion in the best form, content and interval to permit it to plan,
manage and control its operations.
7.4       Internal and External Control
7.4.1     Through its internal auditing office, which covers the Main Office
and branch offices, BANADE will perform comptroller tasks and
provide advice in order to improve its services and maintain a
high level of operating efficiency.
7.4.2     External auditing will be performed by the Central Bank of the
Argentine Republic, in accordance with its Charter.
7.4.3     BANADE will ensure that its administrative and accounting
procedures meet the requirements for an adequate level of
internal control.



ANNEX 3
ARGENTINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements for the Proposed Loan
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                                 at end of Quarter
(US$'000)
FY 1978
September 30, 1977
December 31, 1977                                                  15,000
March 31, 1978                                                     22,000
June 30, 1978                                                      28,000
FY 1979
September 30, 1978                                                 35,000
December 31, 1978                                                  40,000
March 31, 1979                                                     45,000
June 30, 1979                                                      50,000
FY 1980
September 30, 1979                                                 55,000
December 31, 1979                                                  63,000
March 31, 1980                                                     70,000
June 30, 1980                                                      78,000
FY 1981
September 30, 1980                                                 84,000
December 31, 1980                                                  86,000
March 31, 1981                                                     90,000
June 30, 1981                                                      95,000
FY 1982
September 30, 1981                                                 97,000
December 31, 1981                                                 100,000
LCPID, March 1977



ANNEX 4
Page 1
ARGENTINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas y Censos (INDEC), Indicadores
Industriales, Buenos Aires, 1975/1976.
2. Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas y Censos (INDEC), Resultados
Provisionales del Censo Nacional Economico 1974, Buenos Aires,
1976.
3. Ministerio de Economia, Secretaria de Estado de Comercio, Matriz de
Costos de la Industria Argentina, Buenos Aires, 1974.
4. Banco Central de la Republica Argentina, Sistema de Cuentas del
Producto e Ingreso de la Argentina, 2 vols., Buenos Aires, 1975.
5. Universidad Argentina de la Empresa, Instituto de Investigaciones
Economicas, Promocion Industrial en la Argentina, Buenos Aires,
1976.
6. Berlinsky, J. and Schydlowsky, P., Incentives for Industrialization
in Argentina, mimeo, Washington: IBRD, 1976.
7. Monti, A., Exports of Manufactured Goods: Argentina, paper presented
at the Joint ECLA-IBRD Conference on Export Promotion Policies,
Santiago, Chile, November 1976.
8. de Vries, B., Export Growth in the New World Environment: The Case
of Latin America, paper presented at the Joint ECLA-IBRD Conference
on Export Promotion Policies, Santiago, Chile, November 1976.
9. Fundacion de Investigacion Economicas Latinoamericana (FIEL), Encuesta
sobre Planeamiento Industrial a Corto y Mediano Plazo, Buenos
Aires, Diciembre, 1976.
10. Banco Central de la Republica Argentina, Boletin Estadistico 1976,
Buenos Aires, 1976.
11. Ministerio de Economia, Informe Economico 1976, Buenos Aires, 1976.
12. International Finance Corporation Working Paper, Limited Financial
Sector Survey: Argentina, Washington, January 26, 1977.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
13. Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE), Charter of Incorporation and
Statement of Policies (Spanish), Buenos Aires, 1977.
14. Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE), Annual Reports for 1970-1976,
Buenos Aires.
15. Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE), Model reports, appraisal checklists
and client questionnaires, Buenos Aires.



1  t  S  O  L I V  I :AN   j            s .       X                                 eJST 3T
-AME    CA  /                   .Cn-"'l      Sf  34bncs      \X
PARA  UAY
JArer~~~~~~Ina  (  f           '.~~~~~~ SLTA       LLLn
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "I  I 'i  A  I 'U/'                     05N->
S ogrr. de        ESSTEN
309
g Ai ;<AN J _O~~~~~RDOBA ,ccrix5   
X %'  t<Cuin>t $}<~~~~~io -tR SA Wmef                                           \ v
SANTIAG,         ZPt        M- ,                                         URUG           AYs
0   /  ,r42: ;~~SAN RAFAEL 0  t  l          -EUE                  OS AWRf 5  
LSdv A4l ~se/ 905A rV - f     'G
clew~~~~~~~e
A)   r   t?   2       /      354     t           /    'i    \  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~`~A)
U a X S 4 \1 BAH A SMA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R DEL PLATA
C)a    r,  _   uque
RVADAochel/    /   ;V iE DMA                                                            40
(, .  )    f  /    /         ) Gv/~~~f$a aeMatwa   
HiH~~~~t Toy                                                 ____ PIe rgae od
U t} ~~~~~~~~~~4 -X_gWS0O4j 
_  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S, J  ,,                                    
q           ~~~~~~UX                            a&8 '\  COOOC              ARGEINTItNA
if t--7-'--- RI~VADAVIA
r  - a d     W                                   Prim3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pr~ry rords
'<'~    I~~~3/'                                                              Ea )   Fs -----    l E+o roods
*   Princ,pui cirpors
Provinc,al boundar4es
Interrnoaionol bourttries
350'                 t '-)                                                    200         42v        600        900
2  9  tt  9*\~Ri GvALLtOS                                         KtMt
\)'   B                             O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 100  300  3C0  400      500
a~~~~*  MAr                                                        LES
IlERRA DEL
1W                                      4 ,. .,c i 41   4,,
EO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   70' 



