FILE COPY                            Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
X:Fr      N   T                     Report No. P-2029a-AR
ONN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO. THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO NACIONAL.DE DESARROLLO
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
June 3, 1977
r Ths-- document has a- restricted, distribution- and may be- used- by recipients only In the- performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 12, 1977)
Currency Unit                =                      Argentine Peso ($a)
US$1                                                $a363
$al,000                                             US$2.75
$al,000,000                                         US$2,754.80
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANADE     =       Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (National Development Bank)
BCRA       =       Banco Central de la Republica Argentina (Central Bank)
ERR        =       Economic Rate of Return
FIEL       =       Fundacion de Investigaciones Economicas Latinoamericanas
(Latin American Economic Research Foundation)
FRR        =       Financial Rate of Return
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GNP        =       Gross National Product
IFC        =       International Finance Corporation
LAFTA      =       Latin American Free Trade Association
VNA        X       Valores Nacionales Ajustables (National Adjustable Bonds)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:           Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE)
Guarantor:          The Argentine Republic
Loan Amount:        US$100.0 million equivalent
Loan Terms:         Interest on the loan would be at 8.2% per annum.    Amor-
tization would be on the basis of the aggregate of the
following two amortization schedules: (a) for the
US$99.75 million portion relent to industrial enterprises,
repayments would be made over a maximum period of 15 years
and would follow a flexible schedule based on the aggre-
gate of the amortization schedules of BANADE's subloans;
and (b) for the US$0.25 million for technical assistance,
repayments would be made on the basis of equal semi-annual
principal payments over 15 years, including three years
of grace.
Relending Terms:     Subloans would be denominated in US dollars, with interest
at not less than 11% per annum, and with maturities of up
to 15 years, including grace periods of up to three years,
subject to a final maturity of the Bank loan of 15 years.
The Government would assume the risk of loss resulting
from changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar
and the currencies repayable to the Bank.
Purpose:            The proposed loan would help finance (i) the foreign
exchange cost of fixed assets for investment subprojects
in the manufacturing sector and (ii) technical assistance
to BANADE.
Debt Covenant:      Maximum debt/equity ratio of 10:1.
Free Limit:         The first four subprojects to be financed from the loan
proceeds would require Bank approval irrespective of sub-
loan amounts; a free limit of US$2.0 million would apply
thereafter.
Thb docuwnwt bam a rtricted ditribuUon and may be uoe by fecipdaw 1* in the perfontaa
of theif okhW dutL Is coatents my not obferwie be disc_ind wbhout Wou lek auborWa6m.



Technical
Assistance:       The technical assistance component would help BANADE to
improve its lending to the industrial sector, including
(a) US$200,000 to help finance about 65 man-months of
consulting services (at about US$4,100 per man-months)
for staff training and sectoral studies; and (b) US$50,000
to help finance the sending of staff abroad for training.
Procurement:        Through normal commercial channels, following standard
DFC practice.
Commitment and
Disbursements:    The loan is expected to be committed by December 31, 1979,
and disbursed by December 31, 1981. Disbursements for
expenditures financed by subloans would cover 100% of
foreign expenditures for direct imports, 30% of expendi-
tures for locally produced equipment, and 60% of expendi-
tures for foreign equipment purchased off-the-shelf.
No more than US$6.0 million would be withdrawn in
respect of any subproject. Under the technical
assistance component, the Bank would finance 75% of
total expenditures for consulting services and 100% of
foreign expenditures for training abroad.
Staff Project
Report:           No. 1321b-AR, dated May 25, 1977



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE) with the guarantee of the Argentine
Republic for the equivalent of US$100.0 million to help finance an Industrial
Credit Project. Interest on the loan would be at 8.2% per annum. The pro-
ceeds of the loan, except for US$0.25 million, would be relent in US dollars
to industrial enterprises at not less than 11% per annum, with terms of up to
15 years including a maximum grace period of three years. The relent portion
of the proposed loan would be repaid substantially in conformity with a
schedule based on the aggregate of the amortization schedules of BANADE's
subloans, subject to a maximum term of 15 years. The balance of US$0.25
million would finance technical assistance for BANADE and would be repaid over
15 years, including three years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Argentina" (No. 1282-AR)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on September 8, 1976. It was
designed to assess current developments and provide a medium-term perspective
of the Argentine economy. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Argentina is endowed with a favorable human and natural resource
base and among developing nations enjoys a relatively high GDP per capita,
which is estimated at about US$1,590 in 1976. However, the country's income
level masks deep-seated structural imbalances in the economy, manifested in
its inability to attain stable growth. During several years preceding early
1976 there was a severe deterioration of key institutions, of productive
capacity and of infrastructure. High levels of protection and domestic market
limitations contributed to a generally high-cost industrial structure which
did not reflect relative costs and factor scarcities within the domestic
economy. Lacking adequate incentives, the agricultural sector produced and
exported below its potential. Ensuing social and economic tensions made it
difficult to pursue rational economic policies for any considerable period of
time. The result was a "stop-go" pattern of growth which, in turn, led to
frustrated expectations, rising social tensions and occasional political
upheavals.



- 2 -
4.        The economic and financial chaos inherited by the present Government
which came to power in March 1976 was virtually without precedent in the
country's history. The last few months of the previous administration saw a
total breakdown of economic management which propelled the nation toward
hyperinflation and placed its capacity to service external obligations in
serious jeopardy. Upon taking office, the most urgent tasks before the
authorities were to break inflationary expectations and to shore up the coun-
try's precarious external financial position. Since inflationary expectations
manifested themselves in a flight from the peso, and the consequent weakening
of the free market exchange rate, the authorities moved expeditiously to
strengthen the peso. To increase the public's willingness to hold financial
assets and reduce the velocity of circulation of money, the authorities
raised interest rates and introduced indexed government bonds. With a view to
further strengthening the peso, an increased proportion of export transactions
was shifted to the free foreign exchange market rate and a US$300 million
short-term credit from U.S. and European banks was arranged. In addition, the
authorities successfully rolled over about US$350 million of payments due on
public sector obligations from the second to the last quarter of 1976. These
measures resulted in a sharp drop in the free exchange rate from 380 pesos per
dollar to 240 pesos within one month, indicating initial success in lowering
inflationary expectations and halting flight from the peso.
Recent Performance
5.        During the past year the new Government in Argentina has made
considerable progress in stabilizing the economy. Through a strong incomes
policy, which reduced real wages appreciably while maintaining the previous
high employment level, and through improved fiscal and monetary management,
the Government reduced the rate of inflation from 740% during the twelve
months ending March 1976 to about 160% during the most recent 12-month period
ending March 1977. Rationalization of exchange rate and trade policies
resulted in a sharp improvement in the balance of payments for 1976 and both
the resource and current account balances registered a US$1.9 billion improve-
ment over their 1975 levels. Improved confidence in the peso and the intro-
duction of positive real rates of interest generated repatriation of external
private capital estimated at about US$200 million. During 1976 the Government
achieved a substantial improvement in the external debt structure by repaying
the short-term loans due in the last quarter of 1976 and by contracting new
loans with more favorable maturities. Despite large repayment of short-term
debt, gross international reserves increased by almost US$1.2 billion in
1976. As of December 31, 1976, they amounted to US$1.6 billion, or the
equivalent of five months of imports of goods and non-factor services.
Nevertheless, net foreign exchange reserves still remain negative.



6.        Currency issue continued to increase rapidly in 1976, but private
sector claims rose at a rapid pace reflecting a return of confidence in the
financial system and a more realistic interest rate policy. Thus, while money
supply expanded sharply, there was a considerable increase in financial
savings and commercial banks accumulated large deposits with the Central Bank.
Limits were established on bank credit to the Treasury, to the major public
sector enterprises, and to the private sector. A number of financial assets
were indexed and interest rates on other instruments were freed and are now
positive in real terms. The system of "swaps," whereby the Central Bank
permitted repayment of short-term foreign loans at a subsidized forward
exchange rate, was a major factor in monetary expansion during 1975 and early
1976. The new Government, however, has substantially reduced the level of
foreign borrowings under this system by making them a prohibitively expensive
source of credit.
7.        During the two years prior to the change of Government in March
1976, public finances in Argentina deteriorated to an alarming extent and
became a major factor contributing to the hyperinflation of early 1976.
Declining tax collections in real terms, sharply increased expenditures due to
massive wage settlements and expanded public sector employment, resulted in a
doubling of the Treasury deficit as a share of GDP. Adjustments in tariffs of
public enterprises lagged behind inflation and there was serious deterioration
in the financial position of a number of important enterprises, which had to
be covered by Central Government transfers. Upon taking office, the new
Government introduced a number of special emergency taxes and drastically cut
current expenditures by allowing real wages of public sector employees to
decline sharply. On the expenditure side, the results were dramatic and the
Treasury deficit declined from almost 13% of GDP in 1975 to about 8% in 1976.
About 70% of this improvement in the Treasury deficit was attributable to the
decline in expenditures. A major effort was made by the authorities to
finance the deficit by mobilizing private domestic savings and this was
achieved through the sale of high yielding Treasury bills and indexed bonds.
Central Bank financing of the Treasury deficit declined sharply in real terms
and fell as a share of total financing requirements from 70% in 1975 to 48% in
1976.
8.        In order to stem financial deterioration of the state enterprises,
the Government implemented a program of periodic rate adjustments which, since
the,muiddle of the year, resulted in a substantial real tariff increase for
SEGBA, Agua y Energia, and Gas del Estado. Further progress in reduction of
Central Government transfers to state enterprises is assumed in the 1977
Budget and the authorities are continuing periodic tariff adjustments this
year.
9.        During 1975 and early 1976, there was a steady and increasingly
sharp contraction in the level of economic activity. As the economic situ-
ation became more and more chaotic, private investment declined precipitously
throughout the economy. The sharpest decline in investment was registered in



- 4 -
the first quarter in 1976 as inflation accelerated and default on the
country's external debt appeared imminent. The momentum of the recession
continued into the second quarter of 1976 as measures required to slow infla-
tion further reduced aggregate demand and growth. Stocks of industrial
products, which had been accumulated for speculative reasons during 1975 and
early 1976, were brought to market as the private sector shifted out of real
goods into financial assets, reflecting a return of confidence in economic
management and a response to the sharp increase in real interest rates. This
drawdown of stocks accentuated the decline in industrial production.
10.       Since June 1976, the situation has improved significantly due to a
turnaround in private investment, increased output in the mining sector (coal,
natural gas and crude petroleum) and growth in agriculture by an estimated
4.4% for the year as a whole and an annual rate of 6% in the first quarter of
1977. While demand for manufactured goods accelerated, in large part because
of increased investment in agriculture, the decline in real wages during 1976
produced a drop in consumer spending. Despite declining economic activity,
unemployment has not shown any substantial increase. Unemployment is currently
estimated at 4.2% in Greater Buenos Aires and 4.5% for the entire country.
Private firms have generally complied with Government efforts to prevent
large-scale layoffs and many have shortened working hours instead of reducing
their work force. Declining real wages have made it possible for enterprises
to maintain staffs at prerecession levels despite falling production.
Development Strategy and Prospects
11.       The immediate objectives of the Government's economic program --
strengthening of the country's external position, reducing the rate of in-
flation, reversing the sharp deterioration in public finances which had taken
place up to March 1976, correcting the most serious distortions in relative
prices and reactivating the economy through stimulation of agricultural and
mining output--were achieved with a large measure of success in 1976 and the
Government has now turned its attention to achieving its longer-term develop-
mental objectives. In contrast to the protectionist import substituting
industrial development strategies which have prevailed in Argentina during
most of the post World War II period, the present authorities are pursuing an
export oriented growth strategy with primary emphasis on agriculture and
other areas where the country has a strong comparative advantage. Through a
combination of trade and internal pricing policies, the authorities have
shifted the internal terms of trade in favor of agriculture, and the real
effective exchange rate for agricultural exports has been substantially
improved. In late 1976, a tariff reform of major proportions was carried out
and import duties on industrial products were reduced so as to increase indus-
trial efficiency. To return to a more market-oriented economy with the
internal price structure more in line with international prices, the Govern-
ment has simplified the trade and exchange system by eliminating most import
prohibitions and the multiple exchange rate system and by reducing the wide
effective exchange rate differentials for exports. A foreign investment



- 5 -
law, judged to be one of the most liberal in Latin America, was promulgated
early this year. This law aims at enhancing the contribution of external
capital and technology to Argentine natural resource development.
12.       In order to strengthen domestic resource mobilization, the Government
is currently implementing far-reaching structural reforms of the financial and
fiscal systems aimed at accelerating development of Argentina's capital
markets and rationalizing public sector finances. Details about the measures
being taken to revive the financial system are given in paragraphs 37-42 below.
Argentina's postwar experience indicates that strengthening of the country's
fiscal system is required for strong growth of public investment and mainte-
nance of price stability. Basic structural reform of the fiscal system
is now in progress which aims at restoring the financial viability of provin-
cial governments and state enterprises which have in recent years accounted
for most of the fiscal deficit. Twenty-six private enterprises which had been
acquired by previous administrations to prevent them from bankruptcy are,
during the course of 1977, to be returned to private ownership or liquidated.
Ambitious targets for 1977 have been established for the Argentine Railways
which, if implemented will make a major contribution to reducing its large
deficit. Additional taxes have been introduced at the national level and
important improvements in tax administration have been carried out. Major
restructuring of the tax system is being planned for later in the year and
reform of the civil service, intended to create the type of highly qualified
permanent public administration similar to that which exists in the Central
Bank, is moving ahead at a pace which makes it likely that this will be
completed by the end of the year. A new group has been created in the Ministry
of Economy to rationalize public sector investment planning and to develop a
long-term public investment program. Taken in their entirety, the measures
adopted by the new Government are impressive and represent a major shift in
Argentine development strategy which, when fully implemented, will lay the
foundation for strong self-sustained growth in the future.
13.       The major factor determining continued success of the stabilization
program is the fiscal situation. This in turn is closely linked to incomes
policy, since excessive wage adjustments have in the past and especially during
1975 and early 1976 not only fueled inflationary expectations but aggravated
the fiscal problem, since wage and salary payments constitute about 60% of
current expenditures of the Central Government. Despite the adverse impact on
the Budget, the Government is permitting some recuperation of real wages in
1977, not only for social reasons but also because this will foster economic
recovery.  Consumer spending declined during 1976 and the recovery of invest-
ment, which has taken place since the middle of last year cannot be expected
to continue in the face of prolonged depressed consumer demand. Export
demand should continue to be strong and this, together with an increase in
consumer spending and continued recovery of investment, should make it possi-
ble for the Government to achieve its growth target of 4.5% in 1977. In the
fiscal field, the Government's objective is to reduce the Treasury deficit
from 8% of GDP in 1976 to 3.5% in 1977 which, together with the monetary and
balance-of-payments programs adopted by the Government, is expected to result



- 6 -
in a continued reduction of inflation. The Government's program has been
examined by the IMF and renewal of the 1976 Standby Agreement was approved by
the IMF Board on April 20, 1977.
14.       Argentina's balance of payments is expected to continue to improve
in 1977, making it possible for the country to further accumulate foreign
exchange reserves and resume growth of imports. Export growth is expected to
be strong despite declines in world grain prices and only modest increases in
beef prices. Argentina's 1976-77 grain crop is estimated to be the highest in
its history and production of oilseeds and beef are also expected to increase
sharply in response to the Government's new stimulative price policy for
agriculture. The Government's policy of maintaining positive real interest
rates should induce further repatriation of savings held by citizens outside
the country. Despite resumption of large external debt service payments in
late 1977, both gross and net international reserves are expected to increase
by about US$300 million during the course of the year.
15.       Over the longer term, the prospects for strong growth in the Argentine
economy are favorable. During the next two to three years, growth rates are
likely to increase as the balance of payments continues to improve and investor
confidence is reestablished. Price and trade policies aimed at opening up the
economy are beginning to bring about a shift in the structure of industry and
agriculture, which is needed to increase economic efficiency and stimulate
growth. The levels of international trade, which have been low for an economy
of Argentina's resource endowment and economic size, are expected to expand
significantly as the economy adjusts to a new price structure and set of
investment incentives. It will take a number of years and continuing large
capital inflows to carry out these tasks, partly because of their inherent
complexity and partly because public support needed to maintain the effort can
be sustained only if social costs of the adjustment process are held within
tolerable limits. The inflows of medium- and long-term capital from both
private and official sources will, in addition to their support of moderni-
zation of infrastructure and productive capacity, play essential roles in this
process.
16.       Export prospects for the longer term appear to be excellent and
assuming continued recovery of beef exports, substantial increases in the
volume of grain exports coupled with expected improvements in world grain
prices, export earnings should increase by an average of 16% annually in
current terms through 1980. Roughly two-thirds of that increase would be
generated by agriculture and about one-third by the industrial sector.
Maintenance of a 5% to 6% growth of GDP during the late 1970s and beyond will
require that imports increase at a rapid pace (15% annually through 1980).
This pattern of growth of imports and exports would permit the country to
generate a trade surplus averaging almost US$1 billion annually between 1977
and 1980. This surplus would be adequate to cover factor services and still
yield a modest current account surplus. Given Argentina's heavy debt service



payments, and the need to restructure its external debt and to rebuild its
international reserves, however, considerable gross inflows of medium- and
long-term capital will be required, averaging US$1.3 billion annually for the
next four years. The bulk of these capital requirements should be available
from bilateral arrangements, suppliers' credits, world capital markets, direct
private investments and foreign commercial banks. Multilateral sources,
however, are expected to play an important role both by providing capital and
by stimulating capital flows from other sources.
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
17.       At the time the new Government came to power in March 1976, Argentina
was faced with external debt payments falling due before the end of 1976
estimated at US$3.7 billion, equivalent to two-fifths of Argentina's total
outstanding external debt. Overall indebtedness included short-, medium- and
long-term obligations of the public sector in the amount of US$5.3 billion,
"swaps" of approximately US$1.3 billion, exchange rate guaranteed imports of
roughly US$600 million and miscellaneous other private debt estimated at US$1.9
billion. In mid-March 1976, disposable foreign exchange reserves amounted to
only US$23 million, and the new administration had to arrange short-term loans
with commercial banks. It obtained a standby credit from the IMF of about
US$300 million of which the first credit tranche of about US$180 million was
used in 1976. The Government secured a four-year loan of approximately US$970
million from commercial banks in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Japan. These
loans and credits, although needed to make payments on the previously short-
term bank borrowing and rollovers, strengthened Argentina's foreign exchange
position and improved confidence in the peso. Moreover, since the loans and
credits from the banks are of a medium-term character, they contributed to an
improvement in the external debt structure. As a consequence of these transac-
tions and of the favorable performance of the current account of the balance
of payments, Argentina was able to reduce outstanding foreign exchange guaran-
tees by US$1.5 billion and simultaneously increase disposable foreign exchange
reserves by about US$1.2 billion, more than double the increase of about
US$590 million in total outstanding external debt.
18.       Argentina's medium- and long-term external public debt outstanding
and disbursed was US$4.3 billion at the end of 1976. Private external debt
amounted to roughly US$1.3 billion. External public and total debt service
ratios during 1976 were 18% and 32%, respectively. Despite the large gross
borrowings envisaged over the next several years, and continued use of finan-
cial and suppliers' credits, these debt service ratios are expected to
decline to about 15% and 23%, respectively, in 1980 because of the improvement
in the term structure of debt and the expected increase in exports. Provided
the authorities successfully implement their stabilization and development
policies and manage the external indebtedness along the above indicated lines,
debt service should not prove unduly burdensome. Under these circumstances,
Argentina should find it manageable to service the aforementioned external
borrowing required for economic reconstruction and sustained economic growth.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
Bank Operations
19.       Past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of periodic
macroeconomic difficulties and unsatisfactory sector policies, along with
delays and problems in complying with specific project conditions. Since
1961, Argentina has received eleven loans from the Bank amounting to US$701.6
million, net of cancellations; five loans were for the power sector, five
loans for the transportation sector and one loan for livestock development.
Six loans have not yet been fully disbursed. The loans for an electric trans-
mission and distribution project and for a fourth highway project, approved by
the Executive Directors since September 1976, marked the resumption of lending
to Argentina after a hiatus of over five years. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans as of April 30, 1977, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
20.       In its lending to Argentina, the Bank is supporting several impor-
tant interdependent and complementary development objectives. The first
objective is to contribute to the Government's efforts to diversify and
increase Argentina's export capacity and overall economic efficiency in line
with the country's economic resources and development base. While recent
policy changes will provide much of the initial stimulus to increase exports,
sustained growth will require an expansion of productive facilities both in
the agricultural and industrial sectors. The recently approved fourth highway
project will help upgrade the highway infrastructure necessary to support the
planned resumption of economic growth and the expansion of agricultural export
traffic. The proposed Industrial Credit Project would support the moderniza-
tion and expansion of efficient industry in general and potential export
industries in particular. We plan to submit to the Executive Directors in the
near future other loans with a direct export orientation, including grain
storage, agricultural credit, ports and, possibly, railways.
21.       The second lending objective is institutional development and policy
reform to ensure that investments are made and used efficiently. Under the
proposed Industrial Credit Project, reforms would be implemented which will
enable BANADE to fulfill effectively the role of major provider of medium- and
long-term funds to the industrial sector. Similarly, under the recent highway
loan, the Bank has supported efforts to improve the management, planning
capabilities, and operation of the National Highways Authority. Institution
building has also been important in the power sector where the Bank has
supported reforms in the tariff structure which will furnish adequate rates of
return on invested capital, and where the Bank has assisted in the preparation
of a long-overdue national power expansion program and a national power sector
organization study. In lending for livestock development, the Bank loan has
served to introduce modern methods of ranch management within the framework of
a supervised agricultural credit program.



- 9 -
22.       Thirdly, Bank lending to Argentina is helping to provide essential
long-term external capital when it can be absorbed effectively within the
framework of sound overall financial planning and when capital requirements
substantially exceed availabilities from other external sources. Private
foreign sources are not yet prepared to offer Argentina financing in sufficient
amounts and on appropriate terms. It will take Argentina some years of suc-
cessful economic management to regain its position as a substantial borrower
of long-term capital in private markets. In the meantime, very large amounts
of relatively short-term external loans and credits will have to be repaid.
During this period the Bank would serve as a catalyst to stimulate lending
from other sources as well as to directly provide a part of the needed capital
inflow. In connection with the proposed Bank loan, BANADE would obtain
additional foreign funds through a co-financing arrangement which has reached
an advanced stage of negotiation (paragraphs 60-61 below).
23.       Finally, the Bank is maintaining a dialogue with the Government
regarding possible Bank assistance in projects that would foster physical in-
tegration between Argentina and its neighboring countries, especially with the
lower income countries of Bolivia and Paraguay. Such projects should serve as
a major impetus to the economic growth of these two landlocked countries
and enable them to raise their living standards. The Bank project for a gas
pipeline between Bolivia and Argentina has been a milestone in integrating
the two economies in the energy field to the benefit of both countries.
We are also discussing with the Government other integration projects, espe-
cially in the energy field.
IFC Operations
24.       As of April 30, 1977, IFC had made twelve loans to borrowers in
Argentina totalling US$58.2 million and one equity investment of US$2.0
million, of which US$34.5 million has been repaid, cancelled or sold. A
summary of IFC's investments up to April 30, 1977, is given in Annex II.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector - Background
25.       Industry has long been an important sector of the Argentine economy.
At the turn of the century, the share of manufacturing in total output had
already reached about 15%. From this base, industrial growth surged ahead
during the Great Depression and again during World War II, propelled each time
by the substitution of locally manufactured goods for imported products.
After World War II, the Argentine Government began to promote actively its
industrial sector through a combination of foreign exchange and import con-
trols, high tariffs and special tax incentives. Growth in manufacturing value
added averaged 4.1% in the fifties, rose to 5.6% in the sixties and accelerated



- 10 -
to 7.2% between 1970 and 1974, before falling to 3.2% in 1975. The average
industrial growth rates in the past, however, conceal wide fluctuations in the
annual rates of expansion which have ranged from 10% to -5% in the last twenty
years. The bottom of the latest recession was reached in mid-1976, and many
industrial subsectors have since experienced increasing sales. This was
particularly noticeable in food processing and agricultural supply industries,
such as agricultural machinery, tractors and trucks.
26.       Government efforts to promote industry in the postwar period were
based on the concept of industrialization through import substitution. Laws
and decrees were issued offering both protection and incentives which encour-
aged a shift from the traditional industries to the "dynamic" modern sub-
sectors, mainly chemicals, rubber, metals, and machinery and equipment. The
share of total output of metal products, machinery, and transport vehicles and
equipment rose from 16% to 33% between 1950 and 1975, while the share of the
traditional industries declined from 50% to less than 30% during the same
period. Argentina became one of the few countries in Latin America in which
the value added of these three "dynamic" branches of industry surpassed the
value added of the "traditionals."
27.       In spite of a fairly rapid growth rate and continuous diversification,
the Argentine manufacturing sector continues to be confronted with three major
interrelated problems: (1) a substantial degree of instability with rapid
swings from strong expansion to sharp contraction; (2) a high-cost structure,
as reflected in relatively high prices and underutilization of capital; and
(3) a low labor absorption rate, which has left the manufacturing sector's
share of total employment at the 23% that existed in the early postwar period.
These problems and the measures being taken by the Government to cope with
them are discussed below.
Instability and Import Dependence
28.       Import substitution policies have changed the composition of imports,
but not the volume and value of imports which have continuously grown. Total
imports doubled in value between 1960 and 1974, growing rapidly each time a
foreign exchange crisis had been overcome. During the same period, imports of
intermediate goods increased from 50% of total imports to 70%. The dependence
on imports is strongest in the "dynamic" branches of the industrial sector.
Consequently, industry remained highly dependent upon the foreign exchange
earnings of the agricultural sector. Whenever agricultural exports grew at
too slow a pace, usually due (separately or in combination) to inappropriate
macroeconomic policies, poor growing conditions and marketing difficulties,
industrial growth was severely hampered by acute shortages of foreign exchange.
29.       In the fifteen years following World War II, import substitution
industries were promoted. In the early 1960s, however, policymakers realized
that higher and more stable growth rates could only be achieved through a
program of export diversification. In 1962, several fiscal and monetary
incentives to stimulate industrial exports were introduced, but had little
influence in the first years because of erratic exchange rate policies.



- 11 -
Later, when these incentives were supplemented by global reimbursements of
income taxes, an export insurance scheme and more realistic exchange rate
adjustments, industrial exports accelerated, reaching 23% of total exports
between 1972 and 1975. As was the case with overall industrial gtowth, the
rapid increase in manufactured exports at an average of 20% per year in real
terms between 1968 and 1975 was led by the "dynamic" industries, which reached
40% of total manufactured exports in 1973/75.
30.       The Government is aware that the most important prerequisite for
stable and continuous availability of foreign exchange is adequate incen-
tives for the Argentine exporter. It has placed emphasis on realistic
management of the exchange rate, which now offers both traditional and non-
traditional exporters a predictable price for their sales abroad. In the
specific case of nontraditional exports, the Government has negotiated
trade agreements with Brazil, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay and Venezuela which
contain provisions for the exports of relatively sophisticated manufactured
products from Argentina in exchange for mostly raw materials and intermediate
goods.
Efficiency in Argentine Industry
31.       The level of efficiency and competitiveness of Argentine industry
varies greatly among sectors. Although generalizations are difficult to
make, it is apparent that prices of many Argentine industrial products are
substantially above those in the industrialized countries and that the level
of capital utilization has been low during the major phases of the import
substitution cycle. In addition, there are specific problems of efficiency in
the various industrial subsectors. The "dynamic" industries tend to be tech-
nically efficient but relatively high-cost producers mainly because many firms
have remained too small to enjoy economies of scale. Most of the "tradi-
tional" industries, on the other hand, work with rather outdated equipment and
management methods which have made it difficult to sell beyond the domestic
market. This dualistic character is also evident in intra-industry analysis
which shows that a great number of subsectors are composed of a few enterprises
that are relatively large by Argentine standards, alongside numerous small and
rather inefficient firms.
32.       The main causes of the present low efficiency levels would seem to
be the lack of competition due to high and uneven protection of import substi-
tution industries, lack of control and inefficient management in many state
enterprises supplying basic inputs to industry, and mismanagement of public
finances, which frequently deprived the private sector of necessary funds. The
authorities have reversed past policies and called for: (1) a gradual opening
up of the economy to international competition by a reduction of import bar-
riers and further promotion of exports; (2) a restructuring of major industries
by merging or eliminating marginal firms in branches which are plagued by
excess capacity; and (3) an improvement in the performance of state enter-
prises, both in the directly productive and in the infrastructure industries.
Broad tariff reductions averaging 25% were implemented in November 1976. Since



- 12 -
tariff reductions for imported inputs were smaller than for final products,
the effective protection of a great number of products decreased even more
than the nominal tariff reduction. Effects of these tariff reductions are now
being analyzed by the Government to consider further action. The restructuring
of the automobile industry and its suppliers represents a major specific task
of the Government. A commission has been formed to analyze possibilities of
decreasing the number of firms and increasing economies of scale. Finally,
recent legislation has changed rules and regulations in the state enterprises,
increasing the regular workweek, providing necessary incentives for different
skills and responsibilities, and gradually decreasing the number of excess
employees.
fmployment in Industry
33.       Argentina's most active phase of import substitution did not provide
a significant number of new employment opportunities. Total employment in the
manufacturing sector, which had reached 1.4 million in 1950, expanded by an
annual rate of 1.4% in the following eight years. Between 1958 and 1968 em-
loyment in manufacturing was stagnant. It was only in recent years that labor
absorption in industry grew markedly, averaging 3% p.a. between 1968 and 1975,
due to a gradual expansion of manufactured exports and a substantial increase
in employment by state enterprises. Due to these factors, the level of un-
employment in the economy has remained at a low level of 4.5%. As part of its
strategy to improve the efficiency of state enterprises, and to improve its
fiscal situation, the Government's goal is to encourage the private sector to
absorb manpower that is now in surplus in the state enterprises. This would be
accomplished by decreasing numerous fringe benefits in state enterprises and
by limiting increases in real wages to those who have contributed to improving
productivity. In the medium term, this shift should be possible as the
recovery under way gains momentum, stimulated by Government policies to expand
manufacturing production, especially of export-oriented industries with high
skilled labor inputs.   The proposed project would help create new job opportu-
nities in the industrial sector.
Investment Prospects
34.       Current Government policies have been designed to lay the ground-
work for a more efficient industrial sector and provide the internal and
external monetary stability essential for new investments, higher output, and
increasing exports. Potential industrial expansion has been estimated on a
macroeconomic basis and checked against an independent survey of 100 industrial
firms undertaken in November 1976 by the Argentine research foundation FIEL.
The planned growth rate of about 5% per annum in GDP, the expected minimum
growth rate in the medium term, would require annual investments by all sectors
in machinery and equipment of about US$6.0 billion in 1977/78, assuming that
the 13% share of total investments of machinery and equipment in GDP that
existed during the early 1970s were to continue. On this basis, imports of
capital goods are estimated to reach US$610 million in 1977 and US$710 million
in 1978. The manufacturing sector accounts for about 28% of total investment



- 13 -
but absorbs 55% of investment in imported machinery and equipment. Con-
sequently, investment demand for machinery and equipment by the industrial
sector should be US$1.7 billion per year, while industry's demand for imported
machinery and equipment would average US$360 million annually for 1977 and
1978. The results of the FIEL survey, which covered about 7% of total sales
and about 11% of total investments in the manufacturing sector, are consistent
with the projected investment figures based on macroeconomic analysis. The
demand for medium- and long-term credit is also reflected in the project
pipeline of BANADE which included 143 subprojects at an advanced stage of
consideration at the end of 1976. These projects require US$420 million for
investment financing. In addition, there were another 200 subprojects at a
less advanced stage. These figures indicate that the industrial sector is on
the verge of embarking on a sizable modernization and expansion program.
The Financial Sector - Background
35.       Argentina's relatively well-developed financial system consists of
the Central Bank, more than a hundred commercial banks, two state-owned
development banks, two investment banks, a mortgage and a savings bank, as
well as several credit houses and consumer credit unions. It also has four
stock exchanges. This extensive network has been built over a long period
of time--Argentina already had a relatively mature financial system in the
1940s. During the late forties, however, a long period of deterioration set
in stemming from inappropriate Government policies. On several occasions,
positive measures were taken to reverse this deterioration, but with limited
success. In recent years, financial intermediation has been particularly
affected by Government policies and the general instability which came to a
head in the explosive inflation of 1975 and early 1976.
36.       Private financial assets and credit to the private sector declined
substantially in 1974 and 1975 because of huge fiscal deficits, low nominal
interest rates, and "nationalization" of deposits (paragraph 38). The market
for long-term corporate securities declined with new share issues in 1974-76
representing a mere 5% of the annual volume reached in the early sixties.
Term credit virtually disappeared. Together with the decline in credit came
the expansion of extra-banking markets and capital flight. By June of 1976,
total domestic credit to the private sector had declined in real terms to only
44% of the December 1974 level. Credit to the industrial sector followed the
same pattern. In fact, by end of December 1975, the real value of commercial
bank credit to the industrial sector had dropped to 73% of the year-end 1974
amount. To compensate for the sharp reduction and further encouraged by
subsidized forward exchange rate guarantees, companies increasingly turned to
borrowing short-term overseas. This was not sufficient, however, to compen-
sate fully for the decline in local credit since total private sector foreign
borrowings only increased from US$3.4 billion at the end of 1974 to US$3.9
billion by June of 1976.



- 14 -
Measures to Revive the Financial System
37.       After the change in Government in March 1976, the monetary authori-
ties began to introduce important measures to revitalize the financial system,
including the institution of positive real interest rates. Short-term rates
for certificates of deposit have been completely freed and indexed instruments
have been introduced into the market. The Government is also considering
measures to facilitate the gradual lengthening of the assets and liabilities
of the financial system. In the future, after some confidence in the economy
has been restored, it should be possible to develop a market for term debt
based on floating rates or indexed instruments, such as the Government's
indexed bonds (VNAs). At the request of the Government, a recent IFC mission
assisted in studying these matters. Its recommendations are being discussed
with the Government. BANADE, in cooperation with private financial institu-
tions, is also studying ways of developing the domestic capital market.
38.       The Government has recently transformed the system of "nationalized
deposits"--whereby banks were required to accept deposits on behalf of
the Central Bank which then relent funds to financial institutions through
rediscounts and advances--into a fractional reserve requirement system. It
has also freed the resources raised through certificates of deposits and
indexed deposits and abolished special lines of rediscount.
39.       A new law on financial institutions was recently enacted which
reduces the Central Bank's role in matters unrelated to normal central bank-
ing functions while increasing its powers to supervise the orderly operations
of financial intermediaries and to control the money supply. A major innova-
tion of the new law is the ending of specialization of financial institutions.
Commercial banks may now provide a wider spectrum of financial services,
including those hitherto reserved to specialized entities. Since commercial
banks control the bulk of financial assets, this could eventually result in an
overall increase in term financing as some progressive banks move into longer-
term intermediation. Taking into account these developments, BANADE is con-
sidering the formation of consortia with private financial institutions to
help channel additional funds to its projects.
40.       The domestic private credit market is being revived by the policies
the Government is introducing in the financial system. The policy of main-
taining positive real interest rates has already resulted in a major shift
from non-financial to financial savings and could help draw back into the
system funds previously diverted overseas and to the extra-banking market. In
addition, Government measures to reduce the fiscal deficit and to improve the
efficiency and profitability of state enterprises are expected to result in a
gradual reduction of public sector competition for funds.
41.       While the gradual normalization of the economic environment can
be expected to restore savers' confidence and to result in a further expansion
of the credit market, it will probably take some time for a term market to
be established. Whereas short-term funds would be available from private
local and foreign commercial banks and input suppliers, the term credit



- 15 -
needs of industry will not be fully satisfied by the financial system for some
time. Reliance on foreign capital markets to fill this gap completely is
not feasible since only the largest firms have access to foreign borrowing and
since it will take Argentina several years to reestablish its position as a
substantial borrower of long-term capital in international markets.
42.       The proposed Bank loan to BANADE would thus help fill an important
gap in the financing of the Argentine industrial sector directly, and indirectly
through complementary funds mobilized through co-financing arrangements. It
would be oriented towards the sector's most pressing need--term financing of
productive investments.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
43.       In recent years, most industrial firms not only postponed plans for
expansion but also neglected necessary investments for reequipment, because
of the prevailing economic and political instability. As a result, a large
portion of the present equipment and machinery in the industrial sector is
economically obsolete. The new Government has now taken energetic steps
to stimulate priority investments. The industrial sector has responded
positively and has stepped up investment plans for modernization and expan-
sion. The proposed Bank loan to BANADE, as a complement to the Government
policy measures already taken, would help provide scarce resources to finance
the foreign exchange component of fixed asset purchases associated with
specific industrial subprojects.
44.       While providing scarce long-term funds, the proposed Bank loan would
help accomplish the following objectives: (i) to increase the overall effi-
ciency of the industrial sector by helping to finance projects with the
greatest potential for exports and import substitution; (ii) to support the
design and implementation of reforms instituted by BANADE's new management
aimed at rationalizing resource allocation in the industrial sector; (iii) to
provide BANADE with technical assistance to improve its lending to the indus-
trial sector; and (iv) to serve as a catalyst for the mobilization of comple-
mentary external funds from the international capital markets through co-
financing arrangements.
The Institution
45.       BANADE was created in 1970, as successor to Banco Industrial de la
Republica Argentina. Battered by uncontrolled inflation, highly negative
interest rates, and frequent management changes, BANADE became primarily a
channel for Government subsidies to state-owned enterprises and autonomous
agencies; its role as a provider of credit to private industry was largely
limited to short-term loans and guarantees of short-term foreign suppliers'
credit. Mobilization of medium- and long-term resources in domestic and
external capital markets was insignificant due to the prevailing economic



- 16 -
situation in Argentina. By early 1976, lending at highly negative interest
rates had almost completely eroded BANADE's equity base, and its lending
operations had come to a virtual standstill.
46.       Between 1973 and 1975, industrial project financing declined sub-
stantially. Short and term loans by BANADE to the manufacturing sector
declined from 64% of total loan approvals in 1973 to 41% in 1975, while the
financing of public sector service entities increased from 11% to 37% of the
total. Medium- and long-term fixed asset financing for private industry
declined from 32% in 1973 to 17% of total loan approvals in 1975, while the
financing of working capital and foreign trade, essentially commercial
banking activities, represented about one-third of total operations during
this period. BANADE used its guarantee authority extensively, mostly for
state enterprises, to cover foreign supplier and financial credits. On the
other hand, through its nationwide branch system, BANADE made a strong effort
to attend to the needs of industry outside of the capital area.    In 1975,
approvals of loans to private borrowers located in the interior accounted for
about one-half of the amount and three-fourths of the number of loans approved
for private enterprises.
Organization and Management
47.       The new Government has taken drastic measures to put BANADE on a
sound foundation. The institution was recapitalized and an experienced and
highly qualified management team brought in. During the preparation of this
project, Bank staff have worked closely with the new BANADE management in its
efforts to reform the institution and restore its ability to function as an
effective industrial development bank. Substantial progress has already been
made. BANADE's objectives have been clearly defined and sound operating
policies have been introduced. A new Charter of Incorporation has been
approved by the Ministry of Economy and will be enacted by Decree-Law prior
to the signing of the proposed loan. In addition, a new Policy Statement has
been approved by BANADE's board of directors. The Charter stresses the
institution's primary role as a term lending development institution, within
the overall industrial promotion policy framework set by the Government. At
the same time, it provides safeguards for operational autonomy, sound evalua-
tion standards, and financial viability.
48.       BANADE's board of directors, composed of distinguished professionals
who come from successful careers in private banking, industry and the Govern-
ment, has moved swiftly to create an organizational structure which emphasizes
project lending. The reorganization has been smoothly implemented and key
positions filled with highly capable staff. Operating departments have been
clearly separated from support departments and have been set up according to
functional lines into industrial, mining, and commercial lending. Capable
professionals have been assigned to project evaluation work and additional
staff with potential for this task have been identified. BANADE is well
staffed to undertake its role as the country's leading industrial development



- 17 -
bank, though some additional training is required to support increasing
operations in the future. The proposed loan would consequently support a
comprehensive training program to strengthen and enlarge the core of qualified
project staff.
49.       In anticipation of being called upon to support projects which
require concessionary funds, such as for social purposes, BANADE's Charter
of Incorporation authorizes the establishment of special trust funds. Special
fund operations must be kept completely separate from ordinary operations
and BANADE may not be charged with any losses, expenses, or other liabilities
pertaining to those operations, nor may any of BANADE's resources be trans-
ferred to special funds.
50.       Concerted efforts are being made to upgrade BANADE's capability
to advise the Government in pursuing rational industrial policies. For this
purpose, a new unit, the Division of Economic Studies, has been created to
conduct industrial sector studies, to assist management in its dialogue with
the Government and to help focus BANADE's project promotion efforts. BANADE
is uniquely qualified to provide, at the project level, advice and feedback
to the Government on the impact of overall industrial policies. Through its
participation in the financing of large Government-supported industrial
projects, BANADE will help ensure that adequate measures to improve overall
operational efficiency will be taken. The proposed loan would include a
technical assistance component to help finance consultants for industrial
sector work in view of its importance for both BANADE's operations and
Government policies (paragraph 63).
51.       As in other public institutions, inflation has diminished salaries
in real terms of BANADE's professional staff to a greater extent than in the
private sector. Salary ceilings at the higher levels have recently been
increased significantly. To enable BANADE to retain key staff members and
recruit new qualified staff, the Government plans to require BANADE to make
periodic adjustments as needed.
Project Appraisal and Supervision
52.       While BANADE's technical staff has adequate project evaluation expe-
rience, past appraisals consisted principally of technical, market and finan-
cial analyses, including financial projections. The evaluations did not
always focus on the major project issues nor did they contain financial (FRR)
or economic (ERR) rate of return calculations. Efforts have now been made to
upgrade project evaluation procedures.   BANADE's Policy Statement    requires
that all projects financed be technically, economically and financially viable,
that they be adequately managed, and that they have reasonable market pros-
pects. Steps are being taken to utilize financial and economic rates of
return in the selection and evaluation of projects. BANADE has agreed to
include FRR and ERR calculations for all subprojects utilizing US$500,000 and
more of Bank funds. The evaluation of subprojects will also include estimates
of direct employment generation and balance-of-payments impact, particularly
export potential (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
53.       Management is taking steps to improve project supervision.    In
following the execution of the project, Bank staff would focus on progress in
this field over the commitment period of the proposed loan.
Financial Situation and Policies
54.       BANADE's equity capital, which had been eroded from US$87 million
equivalent in 1970 to a mere US$7 million in 1975, was increased in June 1976
by $a52 billion (approximately US$208 million as of mid-1976) in part by a
Government contribution to BANADE's equity of $a20 billion, and in part by
capitalizing $a25 billion of BANADE's liabilities due to the Central Bank
arising from special rediscounts of loans to state enterprises. The Govern-
ment has agreed to increase further the equity base of BANADE by capitalizing
additional liabilities to the Central Bank of $a20 billion on account of
general rediscounts. Furthermore, at least another $alS billion of BANADE's
debt to the Central Bank arising from special rediscounts of loans made to
state enterprises will be consolidated in the form of a ten-year bond. These
measures, reinforced by BANADE's new policy of lending at positive real rates
of interest, will ensure a firm and substantial base for BANADE's operations.
55.       BANADE's Policy Statement sets forth operational limitations which
will protect the institution from unreasonable financial risks in the future.
These policies cover concentration of assets, equity investments, liquidity
and liability management, financial ratios and management of special funds.
The maximum debt/equity ratio, including contingent liabilities, has been set
at 10 to 1 (Section 4.06 of draft Loan Agreement). This ceiling is reasonable
since BANADE would operate as a mixed commercial and development bank. With
the 1976 increase in capital, BANADE's debt/equity ratio, excluding con-
tingent liabilities, decreased from 36.6:1 to 1.7:1 and is not expected to
surpass 4:1 by year-end 1979. Short-term, medium- and long-term, and guaran-
tee operations would each account for about one-third of liabilities. Since
external auditing has not been fully comprehensive in the past, BANADE has
agreed to arrange for auditing satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.02 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
56.       The principal of peso-denominated medium- and long-term loans are
now being indexed in accordance with the same index applied to Government
readjustable bonds, and bear interest at 3.5% to 7.5% depending on their pur-
pose. Most fixed asset financing for private industry will carry a rate of
7.5%, while loans for certain agroindustrial activities, regional promotion
and basic industries will be made at lower rates. Medium- and long-term loans
granted prior to mid-1975 do not contain an indexing clause; however, BANADE
attempts to convert these to indexed loans whenever possible.
Projected Operations
57.       The trend of the past four years toward increased financing of public
utilities and public sector services would be reversed in favor of financing of
the manufacturing sector in line with BANADE's redefined objectives. In the



- 19 -
future, BANADE will, as required by its Charter, give priority to the medium-
and long-term financial needs of private industry. BANADE's projections for
the years 1977-79 show that lending to the manufacturing sector would increase
from 41% to 64% of total lending, with a corresponding decrease in the financ-
ing of public sector enterprises. Average total annual loan approvals would
increase threefold over the 1976 amount to a level of.about $a200 billion
or US$720 million equivalent (all figures for projections are measured in
constant 1976 prices, at an exchange rate of $a277 per US dollar).
58.       As mentioned before, BANADE's past operations with state and state-
related enterprises contained a large subsidy element due to lending at highly
negative interest rates in real terms and to lenient lending practices.
BANADE's Charter and Policy Statement now contain sound policies for future
operations with these enterprises.   BANADE's Charter requires that new opera-
tions be conducted in a way which preserves the real value of its capital
base. All projects financed by BANADE, including specifically state enter-
prise projects, must meet sound economic, technical and financial criteria,
as determined by BANADE, and operations must be conducted in a way which
preserves the real value of BANADE's equity. Furthermore, the financing of
infrastructure and public works will be an exception, limited by the Policy
Statement to those which are linked to industrial or mining development
projects. Commercial banking operations will be continued, but will be
oriented to the extent possible toward support of BANADE's industrial develop-
ment objectives. Special emphasis will be given to the credit needs of small-
and medium-size firms in the interior, and also to complementary working
capital financing of large-scale industrial projects supported by BANADE.
Management estimates that during the next two to three years, approximately
one-third of BANADE's loan portfolio will be of a commercial banking nature.
Future Resources
59.       BANADE's future short-term operations will be funded with deposits
of the public, which are expected to increase to $a50 billion by year-end 1979.
This goal appears to be well within BANADE's capabilities, given its nation-
wide system of branches. To finance the projected volume of medium- and
long-term lending operations, BANADE will have to raise $a35 billion (US$126
million) in the local capital market by year-end 1979, which appears feasible
given the Government's efforts to revitalize the financial system. Foreign
currency liabilities are projected to increase to $a140 billion equivalent
(US$505 million) by year-end 1979. In addition to the proposed Bank loan of
US$100 million, BANADE is negotiating loans of US$30 million from IDB and
US$25 million from the US Eximbank. Short-term foreign exchange liabilities
would amount to about US$145 million. Forecasts indicate the need for an
additional US$205 million of foreign term financing. BANADE's management has
already taken steps to fill this gap.   BANADE's standing in international
capital markets has improved substantially following its reorganization and
policy changes which have been accomplished with Bank support. As a result,
a London bank has been able to arrange a US$100 million five-year Eurodollar
loan to BANADE at an interest rate which will fluctuate with a margin of 1-3/4%
p.a. above the London Inter-Bank Offer Rate (LIBOR) which would be earmarked



- 20 -
for the financing of six large industrial projects supported by the Government.
These projects are already under implementation and would, consequently,
utilize the loan by July 1977.
Co-financing Operation
60.       In connection with this loan, the Bank has urged BANADE to take the
opportunity to seek co-financing from private banks to help fill its financing
gap. BANADE has accepted firm offers from two major banks (one European and
one U.S.) to participate in such co-financing in the amount of US$50 million
each. The co-financing operation would enable BANADE to obtain a longer
maturity, a longer period of grace and a lower interest rate than BANADE and
prime Argentine borrowers have been able to negotiate so far. However, the
shorter term of the private loan compared to the Bank loan and the differential
in the interest rate structure of subloans made from the private loan and
those made from the Bank loan, make it advisable for BANADE in its financing
of subprojects to mix private funds and Bank funds as may be required. In
order to assist BANADE in matching the amortization of subloans to the amorti-
zation of its external borrowings as closely as possible, it is proposed that
the Bank agree to permit BANADE to use most of the Bank funds to finance the
later maturities of its loans to subborrowers, while using funds drawn from
the co-financing commercial banks to cover most of the short-term maturities
on its sub-loans.
61.       When the co-financing operation is finalized, amendments to the Loan
Agreement between the Bank and BANADE will be presented to you (i) to include
a cross-default clause referring to the private co-financing loan in the form
normally employed by the Bank in relation to co-lenders; and (ii) to allow
BANADE to adjust principal payments on Bank subloans for subborrowers utilizing
funds from both the Bank loan and the private banks' loan in the manner
mentioned in paragraph 60. The Bank would also enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding with the agent for the private banks providing for the Bank, if
requested, to act as channel for the service payments on the private banks'
loan and for the Bank and the private banks to exchange information and
consult each other on any matters which might seriously affect the service or
accomplishment of the purposes of their respective loans.
Terms and Conditions of the Proposed Bank Loan and Subloans
62.       The proposed loan of US$100 million to BANADE, with the guarantee
of the Argentine Republic, would be utilized to finance the foreign exchange
component of industrial projects and would include a technical assistance
component of US$250,000. Bank funds would finance the cost of imported equip-
ment and the foreign exchange component of locally manufactured equipment.
BANADE will relend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan in dollars. The
exchange risk between the dollar and the currencies repayable to the Bank
would be carried by the Argentine Government. The proposed loan is expected
to be committed by December 31, 1979 and disbursed by December 31, 1981.



- 21 -
Following standard DFC practice, the amortization of the relent portion of
the proposed loan would conform to the aggregate of the amortization schedules
of individual subloans.
63.       The technical assistance component would include:    (a) US$200,000
to help finance about 65 man-months of consultancy services (at about US$4,100
per man-month) for staff training and sectoral studies, and (b) US$50,000 to
help finance the sending of professionals overseas for fellowships and training
programs. The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment of the consultants required under the project would have to be satis-
factory to the Bank (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). This technical
assistance component would be repaid over 15 years, including 3 years of grace.
64.       Subloans would be for up to 15 years (subject to a maximum term
for the Bank loan of 15 years), including a reasonable grace period not to
exceed 3 years. The amortization schedule for subborrowers utilizing funds
from the proposed co-financing operation would be adjusted as indicated in
paragraph 60 above. Unless the Bank otherwise agreed, the maximum amount
of Bank funds that might be utilized for any subproject would not exceed US$6
million (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Subloans would be
denominated in dollars and would carry an interest rate of not less than 11%,
with a commitment fee on the undisbursed balance. The spread of 2.8% p.a.
between BANADE's relending rate of 11% p.a. and the Bank's lending rate of
8.2% p.a. would be adequate to cover subloan administration and supervision
expenses. By September 30, 1978, at the latest, BANADE and the Bank would
exchange views on the appropriateness of the terms and conditions of subloans
(Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). The first four subprojects would
require Bank approval irrespective of subloan amount; a free limit of US$2
million would apply thereafter (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
This arrangement would result in Bank review of a representative sample of
subprojects covering approximately 60% of the loan amount.
Procurement and Disbursement
65.       While BANADE's procurement procedures were not adequate in the past,
BANADE would now satisfy itself that goods and services purchased are suitable
to the projects and are reasonably priced (Section 3.04(a)of the draft Loan
Agreement). It is BANADE's intention to require subborrowers to obtain three
quotations for purchases of most goods and services. Procurement for subproj-
ects would thus be in accordance with standard practice for the Bank's loans
to DFC's. Disbursements for expenditures financed by subloans would cover
100% of foreign expenditures for direct imports, 30% of those for locally
produced equipment, and 60% of those for foreign equipment purchased off-the-
shelf. These percentages represent the estimated foreign exchange component of
these items. Under the technical assistance component, the Bank would finance
75% of total expenditures for consulting services, and 100% of foreign expen-
ditures for fellowships and training abroad.



- 22 -
Project Risks and Benefits
66.       Assuming that the present high quality of management is continued
in the Argentine economy and in BANADE itself, the project does not present
any special risks. The existence of a substantial demand for long-term
financing has been established during the preparation of the proposed project.
Argentina's industry needs a major overhaul in view of the large proportion of
economically obsolete equipment and machinery. The proposed Bank loan would
play a decisive role in channelling long-term funds into the industrial
sector, which has been disinvesting in the past few years but is now planning
rather heavy investments to modernize and expand capacity. While we expect
the proposed loan to be committed and disbursed according to schedule, the
actual timing will, to a large extent, depend on the continuation of the
present pace of economic recovery. Proceeds of the Bank loan would be used
principally to finance high priority medium-size subprojects averaging about
US$8 million. It is expected that many would be located in outlying provinces,
thus contributing to the Government's industrial decentralization efforts.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Guarantee Agreement between the Argentine Republic and
the Bank; the draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco Nacional de
Desarrollo; and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolu-
tion approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The Decree-Law enacting the new Charter of BANADE would
be issued before the signing of the loan documents for the proposed loan.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
June 3, 1977



AK14 I
TM.ALE 3A                                         Page 1 of 4 pages
GtMTDNA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SET
LAND AREA ITHOU AWZ)
- - (tTttl Xtt21   ----                NAftSTINA                          REFERENCE COtMTRIES 19701
TOTAL     ZT?e6.9                                   MOST RECENT
AGRIC.    1M .2                      1960      1970   EST1MATE         VENEZUELA     SPAIN         AUSTRALIA"
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  770.0    1060.0    1590.0            L440.0     1560.0     3620.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)         19.9      23.2      25.0              10.3       33.6       12.5
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      7.0       8.0       9.0              11.0       67.0        2.0
PER SO. KM. AGRtICULTURAL LAND       ..      13.0      31.0              19.o      105.0        2.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE t/THOU, AVI       24.9      22.5      21.8              42.1       21.0       20.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE I/THOU4AV)         9.0       8.6       8.8               8.7        8.8        8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOU)      59.4      58.9                       49.3/a     27.9        17.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IYRS)     66.0      67.4      68.2              63.0       70.5       72.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             1.5       1.5       1.5               2.9        L.4        1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE tIl
TOTAL                               1.5       1.5       1.5               3.4        1.1        Z.2tL!
URt AN                              2.6       2.4       2.3               4.7        2.0        2.9
URBAN POPULATION tS OF TOTAL)        71.2      77.4      80.0              75.7       59. 1      88.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENTI
0 TO 14 YEARS                     30.7      29.3      29.0              47.1 a     27.8       28.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                     63.7      63.7      63.0              50.5iS     62.5       62.8
65 YEARS AND OVER                   5.6       7.0       8.0               2.4/ll     9.7        8.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                  0.6       0.6       0.6               1.0/A      0.6        0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.0       1.0        ..               1.6I/      1.1        0.9 /b.c
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS tCUMULATIVE, THCU)              ..         ..                  67.0o
USERS IS OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..        ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       7500.0./A  9000.0       *-            3100.0    11900.0     4900.0 tb c
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTUPE tI)       la 0/b    15.0        ..              22.0       25.0        9.0/b.c
UNEMPLOYED (t OF LABOR FORCF)         9.0       5.0       4.5/A             6.0        1.1       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCOME REC O BY-
HIGHEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS           Z7.5      21.4/ a                       ..         ..       14.1 Id
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS          50.9      47107j                        *          *-       38.9
LOWEST  20S OF HOUSEHOLDS           6.9       5.6        ..                .          ..        7.1 id
LOWEST  402 OF HOUSEHOLDS          16.6      16.2/7      ..                ..         ..       20.0/d
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
_____________________________
I OWNED BY TOP 102 OF OWNERS           ..        ..        ..
S OWNED 8Y SMALLEST IOS OWNERS         ..        ..        ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            650.0 /cd 500.0     480.0/b          1080.0      740.0/b    840.0 /b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..     980.0/b      ..             5200                  150.0 7O b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         160.0 /c  170.0     170.O;L           310.0      220.0       80.0 /b
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES t7 OF REQUIREMENTS)      115.0     119.0     133.0             100.0      107.0      115.0
PROTEIN IGRAMS PER DAY)            98.0      99.0     118.0              62.0       81.0      101.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       54.0      64.0                        32.0       40.0       71.0
DEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4           4.4       3.2        ..               5.4        0.9        0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                     97.0     104.0     104 .0/           100.0      131.0      106.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                   31.0      37.0      47.0/b            41.0       57.0       83.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)           12.0      12.0      12.0              11.0       11.0       13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
t1 OF SECONDARY)                   50.0      59.0      62.0                ..       20.0       16.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Sl              91.0      93.0        ..              77.0       94.0       99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)              1.3       1.4        ..                ..         ..0/b
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (2S                    53.0        ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)               69.0      76.0/d    79.0/d              ..         ..       98.0/bc
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (S)                 19.0        ..        ..                ..         ..       93.0/b.c
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)      176.0     388.0     425.0 /c          165.0      212.0      212.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)        24.0      62.0      88.0              55.0       71.0      312.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)        524.0     936.0    1135.0            1229.0     1634.0     4495.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)             8.6      12.0       7.8               8.2        5.8       35.9
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS CN REVERSE



,.4     4 pagw"
NOTES
Unlees otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 aas           1970, and for Meet Recent gstimate between
1973 ad 1975.
**  Selection of Australia as en objective country is based on comparable resource endowenefts and economic structure.
ARGENTIHA             1960    /a.8  Persons 14 years of ane and over;      lb  Persons 15 years of age and over;        /j  1962;     .Ld  Registered, not all
practicing in the country.
1970    /a. Income recipients, Buenos Aires - urban;        .Lb  Hospital personnel only;       /c  Households, total, urban and rural;
/d Percentage of population.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:      /a. Septomber 1976;       /b  1972;     /c   1971;    L.d  Percentage of population.
VENEZUELA             1970   Ia   Excluding Indian jungle population;        /b  Ratio   of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force.
SPAIN                 1970        EmFployment office estimate;     Ab  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
AUSTRALIA             1970   1.   Due to iomeigration, population growth rate is higher than rate of natural increase;            /b  19b66     Ic   Excluding full-
blooded Aborigines;      /d   1967-68.
R4, January 25, 1977
DKNMPfliS9 OF SOCIAL IN9DICATORS
Land Area (thou he2                                                                       Population per nursing person - Population divided by nu-ber of practicing
Total- Total surface ares comprising land ares and inland waters,                           male sand fonale graduate nurses, "traind" or 'certified" nurses, and
ASi.-Moat recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or parma-               auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
neatly for crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie fallm.                   Population par hospital bed - Population divided by m,zber of hospital beds
available Sm public and private geaeral and specialized hospital sad
GNP pear capita (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   rehabilitatiom  ceatare; excludes auring hom.es nd est.bliahmests far
calculated by eame canvrsion method as World Beank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                 cuatodial and preventive care.
196,0; 1970 sad 1975 data.                                                              Par capita supply of calories (I of requiremets) - Computed frm        emargy
aquivalsat of net food supplies available in country per capita per day;
PoP.Lation and vital ataftftic!.                                                             available supplies comprise doesatic production, imports less exports, and
Population (mid-yea nillion)     A. of July first: if mat available, average                changes, in stuck; net supplies   eclude sanmal feed, %ands, quantities uoed
of two end-year eatimates   11)60, 1970 and 1975 data.                                     In food processing sad losses Sm di.tribution; requiromsota mere estiated
by FAG kesed on physiological veeds f-o noraml activity and health camaid-
Population density - per square he - Mid-year population per square kilometer                aring smvronmtal toaperature, body weights, age and sex distributions of
(100 hectares) of total area,                                                             population, antd allowing 10% for ,aate at household level.
Population density - Per sousre he of saric. lead - Computed as above for                  Per capita supply of protein (gra    pear day) - Protein conttent of per capita
agricultural loand only.                                                                   net supply of food per day; mat supply of food is defined es abae; require-
mento faor all countcries established by UJSDA Ec-onoic Reasaaach Services
vital statistica                                                                             provide f or a minixwo allwance of 60 gross of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate per thousand. average - Annual live births per thousand of                  20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gris should he amimal
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic eaerages -nding in 1960 and 1970,                 protein; these standards s-e lower than those of 75 gri     of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most ecant estimate,                              snd 23 grana, of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by 1A0
Crude death rate per thousand, averase - Annual deathe per thouand of aid-yea                in the Third World Food Survy. 
population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 snd 1970 and five-               Per capita protei. supply from animal sad pulse - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for most recant estimate,                                      derived from aninala and pulaws Sm grams pot day.
Infant mortality rate f/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age             Death rate f/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual1 deaths per thousand Sm age group 1-4
per thousand lIve births.                                                                  years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life expectancy at birth (yrs) - Average number of years of life renainig at                 mlalutrition.
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
inkg countries.                                                                         Education
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of live daughters a woman w.ill bear              Adjusted enrolimant ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ages as per-
In her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                  cantage of prim,ary schkool-ege population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year eavrages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  but adjusted for different length. of primary education; for counatries with
for developing conotries.                                                                  universal education, enrollment may exceed 100% stnce ose pupils are below
Population arout   rats (7.) - total - Compoud annual gr-sth rates of mid-year               or above the offici.l school age.
population f or 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                            Adlua ted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; saconmdary
Population arowth rate (7.) - urban - Conputed like growth rate of total                     education requires at lesat four years of approved primary imatraction;
population; different definitions of urban arews may effect comparability of               provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for pupils
data among counotries.                                                                     of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally exc luded.
Urban population (7. of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different             Years of schoolsv prvded (frtCscodlvl)- Total years of
definitions of urban araea may affect comparability of data among countries                 colig      tseodr       level, votomal instruction may be pertially or
cV1eisy exclu.ed.
NAR structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years) , workinS-ge (15-64 years),                Voeiaa      nr.lInrt C7 of secondary) - Vocationl inatitutiama Include
and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year population.                     technica1, industria1 or other Program   whith operate imiepondWkcly or a
Ace dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and vovr to those                 depart-ent  of secondary insti tutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                   Adult literacy rate (7.  - Literate adults (able to read and writs) as per-
Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population ooder 15 and 6) and ove,~ to                 tentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
the labor force In age group of 15-64 years..
Fomily planning - acceptors itmoulative, thou) - Cu,1,ltive number of acceptors            Hous Ing
of birth-control devices under auspices of national fanily Planning program              Persona per room (urban) - Average nuber of prarsos per roo     is accupied
since inception,'                                                                          conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude son-permanent
Famiy pannig -users (7. of married -omen) - Percentages of neried women of              structures end -noccupied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 yerar) who use birth-control devie.s to all married             Occupied dwellings withot  ped water (7.) - Occupied conventiona1 deeliegs
women in san   age group.                                                                  iuraadrrlareas withot inside or outside piped water facilities
as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
ftployment                                                                                 Access to electricity (7. of all duellinga) - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor force (thousand) - Economically active persona , including armed                 electricity in living quarters aso portent oR total dwellinps in urban and
forces and unmplayed but excluding housewives, students, etc. ; definition                 rural areas.
in various countries are not comparable.                                                Rural dwellings conncted to electricity (7.) - Computed as above for araml
Labor force in agriculture (7.) - Agricultural loabr force (in fanning, forestry,            dwlinsoly.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor forc..
Unomployed (7. of labor force)    Unmnploysd are usnelly defined as persons who            Cousumptio
are able end willing to takea job, out of a Job on a given day, renained out             Radio receivers (pear thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a Job, and aesking work fsr a specified minimum period nor exceeding one                to general public per thousand of population.; excludes unlicensed receivers
week; may not be comparable betwee    countries, due to different definitions              in countries ead in years when registration of radio sets was in effect;
of unomployed and source of dota, e.g. , employment office statistics, esiple              data for recant years mey nut be comparable since most coutries abolished
surveys, compulsory unemployment insurance,                                                licensing.
Passenger arsfer thou popl - Passenger crar comprise motor care searing
Incoa distribution - PercentaHe of private Income (both in cash and kind)                    les  tasight person; excludes asbulances, hearses and military
received by richest 57., richest 207., poorest 207., and poorst 407. of house-             vehicles.
holds.                                                                                   Eloctricity (kwh/yr pear cap)   Annuaml consumsption of industrial, cowemeria,
public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Distribution of lend ownership - Percentages 01 land Owned by wealthiest 107.                based on production data, without allowance for Iseae    in RXida but allo-
and poorest 107. of lend owners.                                                           Lug far Imports and exports of electricity.
Newsprint Mk/yr percap) - Per capita annual consumption is kilogrin
Health end Nutrition                                                                         estimatedfo    d   sti   production plus mat imports of asprint.
Population par physician - Population divided by numer of practicing
physiciama qualified from a medical school at omiversity level.



Actual                        PrfJecte              1970..  1973 -    1916 -    1980-    1970     197     129.0
NATIONAL ~~~~~~~~         1970     197       1969105fl                               1973     1976     1960      19l5
Miins of US $at 1974 Prices sd EcanQ      eRts4Sae                                                          fD
Gross ibmetic Pout                45.874   516.027   513663     54,222    63,2768,7             .      o.        4.        .8       2.3    1a1        k 0.
Gais ro :Trm uo Trde(+     z1,03L         0   .....jj     ..zllfllfl                      -                                           TM - -23 1.   -1.
Gross Dometic Incom         44,838    56,0-27  52,797      53,95     6245    8631         5.3     0.3       4.2       6. a   100.0    100.0   100.
Import (joel. mIS)                 3,927    4,218     2,812      3,512     4,304   7,513      -2.7    .8.9      11.2      11.8s     8.8      3.3      6.9
xot    import capacity)   -4 1_76   -_4.762  -_3.661          -    5,0- 4  -_7.889      _*j9.  -_12.7     81.3     9-.4     -9.3     .6.9    -8.1
Reore Gp-249                                 -544      -849       -52       -730    -7                                              05       16     -.
Consumptioni Expenidtures         34,319   43,042    41,038     40,724    47,062  65,020       4.1      1.9      3.5       6.7     76.5     ?777     75.6
investment       (mncl, stocks)   10,270   12,441    10,910     11,997    14,453  20,905       5.3    -3.1       7.3       7.7     22.9     20.7    23.2
Domestic Savings                  10,519   12,985    11,759     12,569    15,184  21,281       8.9    -4.9       6.6       7.0     23.5     22.3     24.4
NaLtional Savings                 10,012   12,569    11,375     12,142    14,828  21,024       9.0    -4.4       6.9       7.2     22.3     21.5     23.8
NM  HCANDISE TRADE                          Annual Data at Current Prices                                                          As Prcent of Total
laports
Capital goods                      365      432       Sao        609       924   2,398       1.4     13.1     13.9      21.1     21.6     *b.o     15.5
Intermediate goo&o               1,168    2,543     1.9S       2,591     4,063  10,680      11.4      5.7     20.7      21.5     68.9     62.5    sa.0
Fuels and related materials         79       526      so          538      779    1.,31     28.6    46.0      10D.4     14.3      4.7     17.2     11.1
PrSim&a  pro*sscts               1,485     3,020    2.807       4,344    4,655    8,923     20.7      2.4.    13.5      13.9      83.8    74,6     69.7
44 1poop          .2EL       911    ..46       3i3                 J9       31.4     10.5     3f5t      25 3~    16.2     haL      30.3
W     OWa1Nrehworts (fob)        1,773     3,931    3,763       4,344    665     1,8        22.6      5.3      15.4     17.9     100.0   100.0    100.0
M4erchandise Trade Indices                    Average 1974     - 100
Export Price Index                 41.9     100.0    103.1       106.5    134.7    186.2
Itmort Price Index                 52.3    100.0     127.5       130.7    162.3    228.0
Terms of Trade Index               80.1     100.0     80.7        81.5     83.0     81.6
Exports Volume Index              115.4     100.0     92.8       108.4    131.4    214.8     1970-             1973-              1970    1975     1976
1973              1976                               ____-
VAlIE ADDEDI BY SECTOR             Annual Data at 19 74    Prices and Exchanige RaLtes          Average Annual GrmrF Rates         As Percent of Total.
Agriculture                     6,104.4  6,620.3   6,669.7     7,216.7    8,543   11,705     0.7               2.2               14.8     12.8    13.8
Induistry and Mining           15,927.3 20,488.3 21,627.4    23,131.3    24,755   38,089     6.3               4.2               38.5     4G.o    44.7
Service                        19.275,3 2323714 20.055,4     204f160.3   23465    29,482     4.5              -3.1               46.7     47.2    AW
Total.                         41,307.0 50,460.0 48,352.5     50,528.3   56,956   79,276     4.7-              0.7              100,0    i3rff   100.0
PBSLIC FINANCE                                                                                        1970-73            1973-76     As Percent of GDP
(Central Government -Treasury,)                                                                       Averag  A-ial Growth Sates    1973     1975    1976
Current Receipts                 3,345    3,345     3,749                                          -13.6e                9.1  -   7.3      4.6     7.0
Cusrren E   enditures            2,316    3,440     3,1                                               0431                        50       6.7     6.4
tdtet   Savings                1,029      -95       333                                             --                          2.3    -.         .
Other Public SectorTransfers     1,110    3,181     4,363                                            21.7               20,0      2.4     10.1     8.1
Public Sector Investment           314      435       652                                            3.8               23,0       0.7      1.0     1.2
SECTED INDICATORS                                  1965-     1970-     1975-   1980-
(Calculated from 5-Year avera-ged data)           19175               I        19
Average WCON                                                  e.g              -9
Import Elasticity                     ~~~1.1     09        1.4     1.7
?brgimal Domsestic Savin~gs Sate()                26.7       10.6     63.7     24.5
Msrginal National Savinigs Rate   (7,             23.2       16.2     44.5     24,9
LABOR FONCE ANID                               Total labor Force                                 Value Added Per Worker (174-         Prices & Eac. Rates)
OuTpuT PER WORKERN               In Millions         $ of Total           1965 - 73        In U.S.Eoflars       Percent ofAvert~e         1PD    -7
1965       193      1A        173       Got Rate            1965      1973        L%93       7197      Growth Rate
Agriculture                       1.4        1,3     17.9      14.4         -0.7         4,122,8    4,799.8        95,9       91.2        1.7
Industry                          2.4        2.8    30.8       31,1          1,9         4,926.6    6,829.4       114.7     129.7         3.7
Service                          4.0         4,9    51.3       54.4          2.6         3.980,0    4,492.7        92.6      85.3         1.3
Total7.                                      9,0   100,0      flo-%        *78           4,296,9    5,264.0       1C00.     100.0         2,3



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
BALAICE OF PAYISTS . EXTERNL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(asuntsain millions of U.S. dollars at current price.)
Acthal                           Estimated               Projected
1971      1972      1973       1974      1975          1976          1977       1980      1985
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMHNTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                           2,188     2,389      3,799     4,762     3,669         4,688          5,120     8,171    17,990
Imports (ncl. NFS)                            2.240     2.222      2.633     4.218     4.518         3,585          4,411     6.986    17.132
Resource Balance                                -52        167     1,166       544      -849         1,083            709     1,185       858
Net Factor Service Income                      -333       -386      -455      -416      -440          -490          -513       -580      -585
Net Interest Payments                       (-210)    (-273)    (-317)    (-297)    (-414)        (-440)         (-440)    (-480)    (-455)
Direct Investment Income                    (-46)      (-60)     (-77)     (-35)     (-16)         (-27)          (-30)    (-100)    (-130)
Other Factor Service Income                  (-77)     (-53)     (-61)     (-84)     (-10)         (-23)          (-43)     ( - )      ( - )
Current Transfers (net)                          -3         -4        10        -          5            18             -         -4        -6
Balance on Current Account                     -388      -223        721       128    -1.284           611            196       601       267
Private Direct Investment                        11         10        10        10        -             -              -         40        60
Official Capital Grants                          -          -         -         -         -              -             -         -         -
Public M6LT Loans
Disbursement                                 529        522       832       776       448         1,908          1,005     1,034       933
-Amortization                                -297      -317       -468      -548      -516          -589           -906      -919    -1,044
Net Disbursements                            232        205       364       228       -68         1,319             99       115       -51
Other ML6T Loans
Disbursement                                 163       101         71       244       405           268            292       256       505
-Amortization                                 -44        -50      -100      -216      -408          -427          -287       -312      -455
Net Disbursements                            119         51       -29        28        -3          -159              5       -56        50
Short-Term Capital and
Transactions n.e.i.                           -441        205      -444      -344       248        -1,806
Change in Net Reserves
( - = increase)                                467       162       -622       -50     1,107            35
Change in Gross Reserves
(- - increase)                                 400       -195      -864        44       856        -1,157
GRANT AND LOAN COMIT3(ENTS
Official Grants & Grant-Like                           -         -         -              -              -
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                                          151        -         -         -         -             115
Other Multilateral                             15        92        57         1       177            165
Governments                                    65        82        42       519        42            146
Suppliers                                     119       118       116       535       307            196
Financial Institutions                        178       390       156       488       126            970
Bonds                                         185       120        65       290       200            207
Public Loans n.e.i.                            -
Total Public M6LT Loans                       713       802       436     1,833       852          1,803
Actual              Est.
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE           1972   1973   1974   1975    197-6
Public Debt Outstanding
& Disbursed                  2,368  2,792  3,046  2,902   4,251
Interest on Public Debt        156    199    233     250    258
Repayments on Public Debt      317    468    548     516    589
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1976        Total Public Debt Service      473    667    781     766    847
EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed only)              Disbursed Only                   Percent        Other Debt Service             179    354     410    604    639
IBRD                      342                          8.1       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total Debt Service  652  1,021  1,191  1,370  1,486
IBRD                                             342                         8.1
Other Multilateral                               294                         6.9       BURDEN ON EXPORT EARNINGS (7)
Governments                                      567                        13.3
Suppliers                                        686                        16.1         Public Debt Service           19.8   17.6    16.4   20.9   18.1
Financial Institutions                         1,566                        36.8
Bonds                                            743                        17.5         Total Debt Service            27.3   26.9    25.0   37.3   31.8
Public Debts n.e.i.                               53                         1.3         TDS + Dir. Inv. Income        29.8   28.9    25.7   37.8   32.4
Total Public M6LT Debt                          4,251                       100.0
AVERAGE TERMS OF PUBLIC DEBT
Int. as % Prior Year DO&D      8.3    8.4    8.3    8.2     8.9
Amort. as X Prior Year DO&D   16.9   19.8   19.6    16.9   20.3
IB8D Debt Out. & Disbursed     256    302    340    341    '342
IBRD as X of Pub. Debt 06D    10.8   10.8   11.2   11.8     8.0
IBRD Debt Serv. as 7; of
Pub. Debt Serv.               5.1    4.6    4.5    5.6     5.1



ANNEX II
Page lot 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of April 30, 1977)
Amount less      Undis-
Loan #      Year         Borrower               Purpose          Cancellations     bursed
(US$ million)
Fully disbursed loans                                                317.3
505        1968     Argentina                 Livestock              15.3             3.6
619        1969     Argentina                 Roads                  25.0             2.1
733        1971     Ferrocarriles
Argentinos S.A.         Railways                56.5            6.8
734        1971     Argentina                 Roads                  67.5           24.6
1330        1977     SEGBA, S.A.               Power                 115.0           115.0
Total                                                    596.6-/        152.1
Of which has been repaid                                 107.0
Total now outstanding                                    489.6
Amount sold                        7.0
Of which has been repaid           7.0                   - 0 -
Total now held by Bank                                   489.6
Total Undisbursed                                                       152.1
No IDA credits have been made to Argentina.
1/ A loan of US$105.0 million for the Fourth Highway Project was approved by the Executive
Directors on March 22, 1977 and signed on May 16, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1977)
Fiscal                                                            Amount in US$ million
Year                   Obligor              Type of Business      Loans    Equity     Total
1960           Acindar Industria             Steel Products        3.7         -        3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960           Papelera Rio Parana, S.A.     Pulp and Paper        3.0         -        3.0
1961           Fabrica Argentina de          Automotive            1.5         -        1.5
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.          Transmission
1962           PASA, Petroquimica            Petrochemicals        3.0         -        3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/1972      Celulosa Argentina, S.A.      Pulp and Paper       12.5         -       12.5
1969/1975      Dalmine Siderca, S.A.         Steel Products       17.0         -       17.0
1969           Editorial Codex, S.A.         Printing and          5.0       2.0        7.0
Publishing
1971/1973      Calera Avellaneda, S.A.       Cement                5.5         -        5.5
1977           Alpargatas S.A.I.C.           Textiles & Fibers     7.0         -        7.0
Total Gross Commitments                   58.2       2.0      60.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                      32.5       2.0      34.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC         25.7         -      25.7
Total Undisbursed                          3.5        _        3.5



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (As of April 30, 1977)
Loan No. 505 - Balcarce Livestock Project, US$15.3 million loan of July 31,
1967; Effective Date: August 31, 1967; Closing Date: July 31,
1977.
Lending to ranchers progressed very slowly from loan effective-
ness until 1970, then accelerated as cattle prices increased and technical
services improved. From 1970 to 1973, project performance was satisfactory
'and a substantial amount of the loan was disbursed. However, the closing of
the European Economic Community (EEC) to Argentine beef imports in 1974
limited external demand for beef and slowed down ranchers' demand for invest-
ment credits. Current prospects for beef cattle development in Argentina
are improving significantly since producers' prices are increasing in real
terms under new Government pricing policies and since beef exports are expand-
ing rapidly due in part to the reopening of the EEC market. At present,
about 25% of the Bank loan still remains to be disbursed.
Loan No. 619 - Second Highway Project, US$25 million loan of June 24, 1969;
Effective Date: October 1, 1969; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
All components of the project as originally defined have been
completed at a cost substantially below the appraisal estimate. The overall
quality of construction and supervision is satisfactory. The undisbursed loan
amount of US$5.2 million has been reallocated to the construction of the Rio
Colorado-Cotita and Pradere-Rufino roads, after being appraised by the Bank
and approved by the Executive Directors on January 10, 1974. The work on
these two roads was delayed in 1975 mainly because of problems in the supply
of equipment. The National Highways Authority has taken measures to improve
this situation and work is now progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 733 - Railway Project, US$84 million loan of April 28, 1971;
Effective Date: July 30, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Due to the socio-economic situation of the country, it became
clear in 1973-1974 that the original Project could not be implemented. On
July 2, 1974, US$27.5 million (or about one-third of the US$84.0 million loan)
was cancelled. The remaining US$56.5 million was to finance procurement com-
mitted by the original Closing Date, April 30, 1974. After having come to a
standstill in 1975, procurement has regained momentum. The last of 59 con-
.tracts for Bank-financed goods was finally signed in May 1976. Goods have
been delivered for 40 contracts, and the revised loan is now 88% disbursed.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan No. 734 - Third Highway Project, US$67.5 million loan of May 5, 1971;
Effective Date: July 30, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The overall quality of construction and supervision for the
28 road sections included in the project is satisfactory. Fifteen of the road
sections have now been completed, but construction of the remaining thirteen
sections ran into severe problems caused by the difficult economic situation
prevailing in 1975 and early 1976. Since March 1976, the Government has taken
measures to improve the situation and work has now resumed at a normal pace.
The bulk of the remaining work is expected to be carried out during 1977, with
the completion of several other contracts extending into the first quarter of
1978.
Loan No. 1330 - Electric Transmission and Distribution Program, US$115.0
million loan of November 1, 1976; Effective Date: January 10,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Loan No. 1384 - Fourth Highway Project; US$105.0 million loan of March 22,
1977; Effective Date:                       Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The Loan Agreement was signed on May 16, 1977 and is expected
to become effective by September 22, 1977.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    Five months (July/November 1976).
(b)  Agency which prepared project:    Banco Nacional de Desarrollo.
(c)  First presentation to Bank:       July 1976.
(d)  First mission to review project:  September 1976.
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:   November 29, 1976.
(f)  Completion of negotiations:       May 17, 1977.
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    September 16, 1977.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   The Government would assume the risk of loss resulting from changes
in the rate of exchange between the US dollar and the currencies
repayable to the Bank (paragraph 62).
2.   BANADE would estimate, in accordance with methods satisfactory
to the Bank, (i) financial and economic rates of return for
subprojects using $500,000 or more of Bank funds, and (ii) the
direct employment and balance-of-payments impact, including
export potential, of all subprojects (paragraph 52).
3.   The debt/equity ratio of BANADE and its financial subsidiaries
would not exceed 10:1 (paragraph 55).
4.   The first four subprojects to be financed from the loan proceeds
would require Bank approval; a free-limit of US$2.0 million would
apply thereafter (paragraph 64).
5.   The amount of Bank funds to be utilized in any subproject would
not exceed US$6.0 million (paragraph 64).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
6.   The Borrower would employ consultants to provide technical assis-
tance, whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions
of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 63).



IBRD 12432
AUGUST 1976
A ME R ICA          -,^.Co,on~Thl  lics1%                          .-n
L                            ARA .I . 
s 0 U ~ ~    ~    4    ~   Sn   ~~
~~/X                     iuj  RoAnNoole ~SIE
Argentino
OSA        .~~~~~ero,d. de 1,,goye.
88t      VIngo n deAPLSi
rs'  j  \     ) _telro  /  | z orronqursn.s. IORRENTES  Z
>         ,  ADELtkEs/Ro | ri 2171 tO~~RORRIENTE 
Lade       K RIO~~~~~~~~ NERIOJ                               BRA ZI
J _ ~~~/    .            3     ),A 40
-30'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
COOORO   A
50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
O     |   \_      // PAMPA <  ROS  V BUENOS(A      NOSSAIRE
50
b  X   \E UQU E N t  4    \lBAHiA  f  T    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 oMAR DEL PlATA
-40' IR//{ '-~8 
{  \E2 TlcheQ/ 4E                                                        40IE
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fi bona'r sh,, '/__  )Guiofirpn do iri
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s         Afet'as1/{
80                  70                      00 vd! 
X / gtRAWS~~~~~~ON i 
; 4 ?-)\  >r  WOMODOROA RCG ENIT I N A
t t~~~7~~~-> _ tIVADAVIA
f<1Y h (r tx ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Primary roads
<@Vt  I  6)   p~~~~~Ft. R. y t                  Paved or gravel roads
4 (J / t ,J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Earth roads
S A N T A   (                          *  Principal airports
C C   1   ~~~C   R  U  Z  /Provincial boundaries
J  \   __   } El 5013do      --  I~~~~~~~~nternotional boundaries
tff~~~~~~~~~~E 5.-do
-50'        tO      >    80                           200,    400,   60,0,   80,0
A1t         RIO GALLEGOS                      KitOMETERS
\ g>k:==<                ,   lt,o~~~~~~~~~~~~ 200  30,0  400  50,0
rV 2,,>< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
Erii7| (7 |IERRA DEL
--EiR  BRDpA             rs~~~~~~~~~~~~T, b.or.dwole Ah>W-,,s /1i tip do -1o
r '=?,              ~~~~~~~~~~World H.,,k -Id 11- f ldlb-e 
BO0-                    70-                     6PO                    50



