Docuumcnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Re"t No. 9160
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
cENEGAL
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT S-26-SE)
NOVEMBER 30, 1990
Industry and Energy Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This docu-n"t has a testricted distribution and may be usd by recipents only in the performance of
their oMficial duties. Its contentL may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFDB        African Development Bank
CCCE        Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CVCCEP      Public Enterprise Accounts Verification and Audit Committee
EDF         Electricite de France
EDS         Electricite du Senegal
IDA         International Development Association
MDIA        Ministry of Industrial Development and Crafts
SENELEC     Soci-te Senegalaise de Distribution d'Energie Electrique
SNDE        Societe Nationale d'Electricite
SONED       Societe d'Etudes de Developpement en Afrique
WADB        West African Development Bank



To wooRLs                       FOR OFt CAL  i ONLY
wa"I on. 0 C. 0W33
U.SA
Office of Dltne. a  gal
Opevttima 3'aluafetm
November 30, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Senegal
Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project
(Credit S-22-SE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a repctt entitled "Project
Completion Report on Senegal - Power Engineering and Technic!A Assistance Project
(Credit S-22-SE)" prepared by the World Bank' i .-1.ent Li.s9'.on ir Senegal with
Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No rudit of thiF ;r-ject has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
The Gamm.t kuu,      g dnbtmi Sarma       e'    I
Of the _  ki enu  II Mugo"u my m oghswe b~ dwj=  wahx   WorS Qg aXUo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT S-26-SE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  .................................................                                    i
Evaluation  Summary  ......................................                                 ii
PART I:  REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ..    1
1.     Project  Identity  ..............................                              1
2.     Project  Background  ............................                              1
3.    Objectives  and  Description  of  the  Project  .....                           2
4.     Project  Components  ............................                              2
5.     Project  Design  .....              ..............  ............               3
6.     Project  Organization  ..........................                              4
7.     Project  Execution  .............................                              4
8.   Project Results .......................                              ..    5
9.     Project  Viability  .............................
10.    Performance  of  the  World  Bank  .................                           6
11.   Performance  of  the  Borrower  .....: .                 ...........            6
12.   Quality  of  Relations  between  Parties  Involved  .                           7
13.   Consulting  Services  ...........................                               7
14.    Information  and  Data  ..........................                             7
PART  II:    PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  bORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE  ....                             8
PART  III:    STAT.STICAL  INFORMATION  ......................                              14
1.     Related  Bank  Loans  and/or  Credits  ....                     .........    14
2.     Project  Timetable  .............................                            14
3.     Use  of  Bank  Resources  .........................                          14
4.     Disbursement  Information  ......................                            16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizati3n.



. i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit S-26-SE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report for the Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project in Senegal's power sector, for which Credit S-26-SE in the
amount of US$3.3 million was approved on May 19, 1980. The project was completed
on June 30, 1986 and the credit closed on December 31, 1986.
The Project Completion Report was prepared by the World Bank's Resident
Mission in Dakar based, inter alia, on the President's Report, the Development
Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the World Bank and
the Borrower, Internal World Bank memoranda (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).



- i$ -
PROJECT COMPLE.TION REPORT
SENEGAL
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit S-26-SE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The engineering and technical assistance project in the power sector was
implemented to support the Senegalese Government's efforts to reorganize and
develop the power sector and strengthen its energy planning capabilities.
When the project was prepared in 1979 Senegal was undergoing a serious
economic crisis that significantly impaired its ability to deal with very
steep and unanticipated increases in the price of petroleum products on which
the economy is highly dependent for its energy consumption. This made
implementation of the actions planned in the project very urgent.
Objectives
The project, the Bank's first operation in Senegal's power sector, had
limited objectives, namely, to assist the Government to prepare a national
energy plan and improve planning in the power sector, strengthen sector
institutions, improve their accounting systems and procedures and ensure
rational development of electricity generaCion resources over the medium-term
in the interconnected system. Though the Bank's lack of past experience in
the sector in Senegal and the complexity of the problems needing attention may
have justified the cautious approach towards project objectives, it is
nonetheless true that, from the standpoint of the costs incurred by the Bank
for the preparation and supervision of this operation, it would have been
preferable to set more ambitious objectives. These could perhaps have
included the financing of part of SENELEC's investment program, an issue later
addressed in 1985 as part of the Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project (Credit
1710-SE).
Project execution
After a six-month preparation period, the project was appraised in
October 1979 and the credit became effective on August 29, 1980. The original
closing Gate of December 31, 1983, was postponed twice to December 31, 1986.
This delay was motivated by the introduction during project execution of
activities not originally planned, followed by two amendments to the credit
agreement in January 1984 and May 1985, respectively.
Overall, the project was successful, except for the component related to
technical assistance to the Energy Directorate of the Ministry of Industrial
Development and Crafts (MDIA) and delays in the preparation by SENELEC of the
scheduled quarterly progress reports.
Project results
Overall, t.le project achieved its objectiv      Particularly, it
facilitated the definition of legal, accounting, f.Luancial and tariff



- i ii -
arrangements for the merger of the two former electricity enterprises into a
single national electricity company. It also helped to prepare a least-cost
development plan for SENELEC which will serve as a sound basis for the
expansion of Senegal's electricity network.
The results of the project's technical assistance component, however,
were less positive, since its contribution to strengthening planning
capabilities was insignificant. Likewise, the introduction of the new tariff
structures proposed by the consultants was delayed, which created financial
problems for SENELEC.
Sustainability
The viability of the project, like that of future projects in the power
sector, depends greatly on SENELEC's capacity to manage those factors that
determine its financial equilibrium, in particular the introduction ot an
appropriate tariff policy and a better handling of its accounts receivable.
Efforts to make progress in this area are currently being made within the
framework of the energy sector rehabi..tation project and the first contrat-
plan between the State and the company or the period 1987-1989.
Lessons to be Learned
The main lessons to be learned from project execution are the following:
(i)  In determining project objectives for a first operation in a given
sector in the borrowing country, the World Bank should aim to
strike a balance between a cautious approach justified by its lack
of experience in that sector and a constant concern to optimize
its resources spent on project preparation and monitoring.
(ii) A technical assistance project intended to strengthen institutions
must be very carefully designed, taking into consideration all
factors that determining its success, both institutional and
organizational, including staff motivation and effective use of
the services of foreign experts.
(iii)In a technical assistance and engineering project such as this
under review, precise criteria must be defined to make it possible
to take into account during execution the requirements not
identified during project preparation; this would eliminate the
very strong temptation, of those responsible for the projects in
both the borrowing country and the donor institution, to finance
activities whose priority may seem questionable to either one of
the parties involved.
(iv) Technical assistance and engineering projects take time to execute
regardless of the amount to be financed. Therefore, the execution
period should not be too short.



PROJECT COMPLETION
SENEGAL
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSIS'tNCE PROJECT
(CREDIT S-26-SE)
PART I: REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name of Project:    Engineering and Technical Assistance Project for the Power
Sector
Credit Number:        S-026-SE
Regional Office:    Africa
Country:              Senegal
Sector:              Energy
2. Project Background
2.1 The engineering and technical assistance project for the power sector,
for which IDA provided a credit of US$3.3 million to Senegal in May 1980, was
prepared in order to support the efforts initiated by the Senegalese
Government to reorganize and develop the power sector and improve energy
planning capabilities.  The need for progress in these areas had bec.me very
urgent given Senegal's great dependence on oil imports for its energy
consumption and the economy's inability to deal with sharp and unexpected
increases in oil prices as a result of the acute economic crisis affecting it
at that time.
2.2 The planning and implementation of a more rational structure for the
electricity sector was one of the project's objectives. At that time, two
companies, one a state corporation (Electricite du Senegal) and the other a
mixed economy company (SENELEC), were jointly responsible for investments in
and the operation of the electricity sector. It was planned to terminate this
arrangement on December 31, 1981; date at which, the State would become the
sole owner of SENELEC. The merger of the two companies would be irreversible
and was to be brought about via appropriate legal, financial, accounting and
tariff procedures.
2.3 It was also necessary to develop electricity generation resources to
reduce the risk of power shortages projected in SENELEC's demand forecast for
1984-1985.
2.4 Finally, against a background of great uncertainty regarding the future
of oil prices on world markets, it was vital to strengthen the strategic
planning and programming capabilities of the Government in order to facilitate
the necessary adjustments in energy policy.
2.5 The credit became effective in 1980 and was closed in June 1986. The
project was executed simultaneously with the Second Technical Assistance
Project to the parapublic sector (Credit 1398-SE), whose purpose was to
improve the management of public enterprises by defining a better working
relationship between them and the State, and with the Petroleum Exploration
Project (Credit 1323-SE). It was followed by the Energy Sector Rehabilitation
Project (Credit 1710-SE), which it helpedl prepare.



-2-
3. Objectives and Description of the Project
3.1 The project objectives were:
(i)  to help the government prepare a national energy plan and to
improve planning in the power sector;
(ii) to provide institution-building in the power sector;
(iii)to improve accounting systems and procedures in the sector;
(iv) to ensure a rational medium-term development of Senegal's
generating facilities within the interconnected system.
3.2 The objectives of this project, the first Bank 3peration in the sector,
were deliberately limited. In retrospect, we could ask ourselves whether this
attitude, reflecting certain caution on the Bank's part, was justified or
whether, in light of the urgent prcblems requiring resoluticn, it would not
have been better to b Tnore ambitious.
3.3 The first question must be answered in the affirmative if the focus is
on the complexity of the sector's problems. In fact, the Government and che
power sector enterprises were faced with numerous options, not all of them
having the same economic and financial justification. Furthermore, a number
of donors were interested in financing operations in this sector, which raised
the problem of coordinating their efforts.
3.4 If on the other hand the criterion used is the volume of resources
utilized by the Bank to prepaie the project and supervise its execution, it is
apparent that these efforts were very substantial in comparison to the small
amounlt of project financing.
4. Project Components
4.1 The project components established as a result of the negotiations were
as follows:
(i)   3 study to determine the optimal organization of the Senegalese
power sector, including proposals for the creation of a national
entity to replace the two existing companies (SENELEC and EDS);
(ii) financial studies concerning the accounting systems and procedures
of EDS and SENELEC, consisting of an audit by foreign consultants
of the financial statements of these two companies and of their
consolidated balance sheets for the years 1979, 1980 and 1981,
including recommendations designed to improve financial management
in these sectors;
(iii)a design study for the headquarters of the future national entity
which, on the basis of an analysis of the organization of EDS and
SENELEC, was to propose the phased construction of a modest but



-3-
functional building and the preparation of bidding documents for
its construction;
(iv) a feasibility study of the dxpansion of the interconnected power
system's generating facilities;
(v)  six man-years of technical assistance to MDIA in the form of two
senior advisors with extensive experience in the area of energy
planning; one of thern was to be a personal adviser to the Minister
and help prepare proposals regarding the overall organization of
the energy sector; the other was to be seconded to the Director of
Energy at MDIA and to participate in the preparation of a national
energy plan;
(vi) the training through scholarships of three Senegalese engineers
over a period of three years, to replace the two foreign experts
at MDIA, in the field of energy planning techniques in general and
the power sector in particular; and
(vii)a study on the structure and level of electricity tariffs,
including recommendations to be implemented during Senegal's Sixth
National Economic and Social Development Plan.
4.2 The project was amended twice, in January 1984 and May 1985,
respectively, to include the following additional components:
(i)  the study of a master plan for distribution for the period 1985-
2005 and a critical review of the feasibility study of the Niayes
peat project;
(ii) training of SENELEC's power engineers at the Inter-African
Electricity School at Abidjan during the years 1984-85 and 1985-
86;
(iii)acquisition of spare parts and related services for the
rehabilitation of the Saint-Louis diesel plant in the north of
Senegal.
5. Project Design
5.1 In general terms the project was well designed, despite some
shortcomings in cerzain components. 'The essential features of the project
consisted of the consultants' studies and audits of the sector enterprises by
outside auditors; the government, SENELEC, the World Bank and the Public
Enterprise Accounts Verification and Audit Committee (CVCCEP) attached
particular importance to the preparation of appropriate terms of reference,
the selection of consultants and the preparation of work programs to reduce
the risk of these studies not achieving their objective. The deficiencies in
project design can be associated with the technical assistance component under
the Energy Directorate of MDIA and similar activities financed by the project.



-4-
5.2 As regards technical assistance, the project design does not seem to be
based on a comprehensive analysis of problenms that would have had to be
resolved beforehand in order to ensure that the experts to be recruited could
contribute efficiently to the process of establishing and developing a
planning capacicy. First, the objective to be achieved by recruiting these
experts was not clearly defined in the project documents, a fact which had a
negative impact on the tcchnical assistance component.
5.3 Secondly, no precise wirk program was prepared for the experts, nor a
schedule of activities or performance criteria to facilitate an assessment of
either the progress made in strengthening planning capacities or the tasks to
be carried nut subsequently to achieve the targeted objectives. These
deficiencies in project design partly explain why the results of the technical
assistance component were somewhat limited.
5.4   Another gap in project design was the difficult dialogue between the
Bank and SENELEC regarding supplemen-arv activities that could De financed
from the remaining credit funds. In fact, thi, problem originated from the
fact that the project contained no precise criteria for financing an action
not identified at the time of negotiations. This omicsion made it difficult
for SENELEC to understand the reasons for the BEnk's decisicn to refuse
financing under the credit to repair a boiler at, Dakar power station, although
it had agreed to similar work at the Saint-Louis power station. To facilitate
the execution of er:gineering and technical assistance prujects, it is
essential during their preparation to establish precise criteria that must be
met for financing activities not identified at that time.
6.  Project organization
6.1 The organizdtion of the project did not pose any problems during
execution. EDS/SENELEC and the Energy Directorate were responsible for its
implementation. As planned, CVCCEP supervised the audit of EDS/SENELEC
accounts in line with its mandate. Administrative and financial coordination
of the project as a whole, inc]uding disbursements of funds, was SENELEC's
responsibility. The project management structure was efficiently iniegrated
into SENELFC's organization, which rhus was able to acquire the necessary
skills fc  managing the implementation of subsequent projects partly financed
by the Eank and other donors. The MLnister of Economy and Finance had agreed
to delegate credit disbursement functions to SENELEC. This facilitated
greatly the disbursement process by cutting down on the time spent in
processing payment requests.
7. Project execution
7.1 Apart from a few minor difficulties, the project went well overall. The
credit became effective ahead of the date planned in the agreement, which does
not happen very oftern in Bank projects in Senegal. The final closing date was
June 30, 1986, three years later than the initial closing date. This
discrepancy is explained by the fact that the project was amended on two
occasi,ns to include new activities. Credit funds were entirely disbursed and
there were no cost overruns.



-5-
7.2 The one failure in project execution were the delays in SENELEC's
submission of quarterly progress reports, despite the constant insistence of
supervision miss.ons.
8. Prolect results
8.1 Overall the project was a success, although the extent to which it
achieved its objectives varied from one component to another.
8.2  The project succeqsfully helped to establish the appropriate legal,
financial and orgarizational bases for the merger jf the two er.terprises in
the power sector and the establishment of the national electricity company.
It promoted a rational choice of investments in electricity generating
resources through the selection of the most technically reliable, least-cost
solution in relation to possible alternatives (fuel oil, hydropower, peat,
gas) anl the preparation of an optimal investment execution timetable.
8.3 The project's tariff study and technical assistance compor.ents only
partially achieved their objectives. The project financed Lariff studies witi
a view to providing SENELEC with a sound and rational tariff structure.  The
consultants carried out these studies in accordance with their terms of
reterence and their work was regarded as satisfactory. However, the
government did not allow SENELEC to act immediately on their recommendation
that the tariff structure should be based on SEhELEC's long-term marginal
cost. As a result tariffs, although raised considerably in 1983, have
remained too low and have not enabled SENELEC to generate the cash flow
required to service its debt and partially contribute to finance new
investments.
8.4 As regards the technical assistance, its impact on the institutional
planning and energy programming capability of the Energy Directorate of MDIA
was not very significant. Despite the presenice for almost three years of two
energy planning experts, the Energy Directorate even now still requires
technical assistance in preparing working documents for energy sector
meetings.
8.5 It would appear that the difficulties tied to the successful
introduction and/or development of an institutional planning capability in the
energy sector using the services of experts, even experienced ones, were
underestimated. The very fact that one of these experts, who was assigned to
the minister's office, suddenly resigned from his post following the decision
by the Minister of Industrial Development in November 1983 to second him to
the office of the Director of Energy, indicates that ix.rufficient care was
paid during project preparation to identifying the necessary conditions for
effect've utilization of technical expertise.
9. Project viability
'.1  The project enabled SENELEC to make significant progress in planning the
development of its generating equipment, introducing a tariff structu..e giving
it a healthy financial position, enabling it to finance part of its
investments, and developing its human resources. These major achievements can



-6-
only be maintained and expanded if the company can solve the problem of rising
accounts receivable, with which it was confronted during project execution.
Notwithstanding the support received under the technical assistance component
of the Energy Sactor Rehabilitation project, SENELEC is still affected by this
problem, which is significantly undermining its financial position. In
practice the issue revolves overall around Senegal's difficult financial
situation, which is not paying for the electricity consumed by governmental
entities ; and almost all the public service enterprises. The action plan for
the Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit gives priority to rebuilding the
financial relations between the State and the public enterprises, including
reciprocal debts and ways of preventing State debts to these enterprises from
recurring. Until the problem is finally settled, the viability of electricity
and other public service sector projects will be in jeopardy.
10. Performance of the World Bank
10.1 In overall terms the performance of the World Bank was satisfactory.
Its experts helped SENELEC and the Government to prepare the terms of
reference for studies and audits and made every effort to monitor project
execution on a regular basis. During the period 1982-1985, eight missions
visited Senegal to supervise the project, an average of two a year. This
considerable effort permitted timely identification of the numerous and
complex pro"'lems linked to the restructuring and reorganization of the power
sector, the prcgramming and selection of investments in generation. and
tariffs, and ir. conjunction with the government, led to appropriate solutions
being found. It should be noted that these problems were all the more
difficult in that this was the first Bank operation in this sector in Senegal.
The government and SENELEC, confronted by the energy crisis and a risk of
inadequate electricity generating resources, had to make a series of difficult
choices among a number of competing alternatives as regards investments in
electricity generation.
10.2 Supervision by the Bank nonetheless demonstrated certain deficiencies,
insofar as it did not attach enough importance to or focus sufficient
attention on strengthening the planning capability of the Energy Directorate,
and in particular on scrutinizing the role and work program of the technical
experts with a view to ensuring that the necessary corrective measures were
taken to achieve its objective.
11. Performance of the Borrower
11.1 In general terms the Borrower's performance was satisfactory.
SENELEC/EDS and CVCCEP effectively managed the legal and financial studies
pertaining to the reorganization of the sector, the tariff studies and the
studies on developing production resources.
11.2 The Borrower satisfied all the special conditions in the credit
agreement as set oLt in section 3.03.  This good performance was the result of
SENELEC/EDS's commitment to carry out the project successfully, which was
demonstrated right from the start by the latter's agreement to prefinance the
studies.



-7-
11.3 It should, however, be noted that the Borrower delayed the establishment
of the national electricity company, initially planned for December 31, 1981
to December 31, 1983, and the introduction of the new tariff structure, which
occurred only in 1983.
12. Quality of relations between the parties involved in the project
12.1 Overall, the quality of relations among the various parties involved in
the project was good and contributed to its success. However, it deteriorated
when SENELEC managers felt that the Bank was unwilling to finance the training
of electrical engineers from the remainder of the credit although it had been
very willing to accept the financing of studies which from SENELEC's
standpoint were of low priority. This problem illustrates the need for the
Borrower and the Bank to have a clear understanding of the precise criteria to
which the funds from a credit may be used to finance certain actions not
identified at the time that the project is approved.
13. Consulting services
13.1 Aside from the consultants responsible for the first phase of the study
for the expansion of production resources and, to a lesser extent, the experts
attached to MDIA, the consultants' performance of those who participated in
the project was satisfactory. This is largely due to the fact that these
consultants were recruited according to rigorous procedures and had
considerable experience in their respective areas.
14. Information and data
14.1 One of the flaws in project execution was the lack of importance
attached by those responsible for its implementation to the regular and ti..-ely
preparation of the quarterly reports detailing progress. Therefore
information that these reports should have contained in order to take the
necessary corrective measures were unavailable.



-8-
PROJECT COMPLETION
SENEGAL
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT S-26-SE)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I.    Introduction
The system of private power generating concessions in Senegal started
to be gradually abolished in 1972, leading in 1983 to the creation of Societe
Nationale d'Electricite, which was made responsible for the generation,
transmission and distribution of electricity throughout the country.
This entity is entirely government-owned. Nevertheless, it has the
legal status of a financially independent industrial and commercial
corporation. Furthermore, it is responsible for formulating major policies to
be followed in such matters as budget, tariffs, procurement, staff
recruitment, investment, etc. It is headed by a Managing Director whose job
is to put into effect the policies set by the Board of Directors.
The Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project S-26-SE of
June 30, 1980 financed a series of studies which have provided the basis for
an Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project cofinanced by the World Bank, the
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economigue, the African Development Bank, the
West African Development Bank and SENELEC itself. The impact of Credit S-26
on SENELEC's outlook may be considered from three major standpoints:
-   From the institutional standpoint, the Credit paved the way for the
merger of two entities, Electricite du Senegal (EDS) and Societe
Senegalaise de Distribution d'Energie Electrique (SENELEC), a move
which led to a CFAF 63 billion capital increase for the new entity from
its CFAF 3.2 billion. Consequently, there was a significant
improvement in its borrowing capacity.
-   From the management standpoint, the audits for fiscal years 1979, 198C
and 1981 called for under the Credit Agreement meant not only that the
accounting and financial procedures of the two former entities had
improved but also that their accounts were certified according to
internationally acceptable standards, thus creating confidence among
donors in this sector. In addition, improved management procedures to
be applied as part of the corporation's human resources and budgeting
and financial policies were identified, being introduced progressively
under the terms of the concession-agreement (contrat-plan) signed
between the Government and SENELEC following the identification study
of the sector.



-9-
From the standpoint of investment identification and programming, the
study allowed SENELEC to undertake an exhaustive inventory of assets in
both the generating and distribution fields. In addition, it provided
the basis for the clearest possible understanding of how generating
facilities needed to expand in the future considering existing national
resources and the 'revailing international market constraints.
II.    Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
(a) Background
The Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project was IDA's first
venture in the power sector in Senegal. The Government's initial
request (June 14, 1979) that Bank Group participate in the development
of the electric power sector was prompted by its wish to reach a
rational decision on future expansion of the country's generating
capacity given that higher oil prices were weighing more and more
heavily on a sector that was dependent solely on petroleum products for
its energy consumption. During discussions with SENELEC management in
July 1979, it was indicated that the Government would very willingly
accept Bank Group assistance in restructuring the electricity sector,
starting from the then-existing provisional situation. The following
October, during the project's appraisal process and related meetings
with the Government, it became clear that a comprehensive plan for the
entire energy sector was needed if the Senegalese economy, increasingly
heavy dependent on petroleum products, was to be dealt with
effectively. In addition, training requirements and the need for a
study on e.ectricity tariffs were also identified and discussed with
the authorities until a consensus was reached.
(b) Objectives and description of the project
The project's objectives as determined at the time of negotiations were
to meet immediate needs in the following areas:
strengthening of sector institutions;
analysis of the sector's financial situation, through external audits
of accounts;
long-term planning of the power-generating capacity of the
interconnected system;
technical assistance and training for both the Government and
EDS/SENELEC, with a view to formulation of a National Energy Plan at
the government level and improved planning in the electricity sector.
In more concrete terms, the project consisted of six separate
components:
(i)   A study to determine the optimal organization of the Senegalese
power sector, and to examine the legal framework for merging the
two existing companies (SENELEC and EDS) in order to create a
single government-owned corporation; specific recommendations were
to be made and presented before December 31, 1980 in order to



- 10 -
allow the Government a full year -- up to December 31, 1981 -- in
which to reach its decision.
(ii)   F'inancial studies concerning the accounting systems and procedures
of EDS and SENELEC and involving examinations by external auditors
of the financial statements of the two companies and of their
consolidated balance sheets, for the years 1979, 1980 and 1981 --
the last day of 1981 being the date scheduled for the decision on
the new legal framework for the sector. These studies were to be
accompanied by recommendations designed to improve the financial
controls over the sector. Audit of 1979 accounts was a necessary
step in obtaining basic data pertinent to the proposed
reorganization of the sector.
(iii)   A design study for the location of the future national electricity
company. Such study was to propose the phased construction of a
modest but functional building based on an organizational analysis
of EDS and SENELEC, including preparation of the bidding documents
for its construction.
(iv)   A feasibility study on expansion of the interconnected power
system's generating facilities. The consultants were asked to
analyze past and present electricity demand and consumption, work
up projections of output requirements for the next 10 years,
analyze existing generating facilities, propose an expansion plan
based on economic comparison of a range of development program
options, and prepare bidding documents for the expansion of
generating facilities.
(v)   Six man-years of technical assistance for the MDIA (Ministry of
Industrial Development and Crafts) in the form of the services of
two advisers with extensive experience in energy resources
planning. One of these was to advise the Minister and help
prepare the proposal to be submitted by him to the Government
regarding overall organization of the energy sector -- a proposal
that was to take as its point of departure the existing situation,
where the responsibility for energy resources planning was split
among various Ministries. The other advisor was to be seconded to
the Director of Energy Policy at the MDIA and participate in the
preparation of a National Energy Plan.
vvi)   Training in energy planning techniques for three Senegalese
specialists, in the form of three-year scholarships. Two of the
three individuals were to replace the two expatriate advisers on
energy planning whose services were part of the echnical
assistance arrangements; the third was to be emp.oyed by the new
corporation, where he would take over development planning for the
electric power sector.
(vii)   A study of the structure and level of electricit-, tariffs, which
was to incorporate recommendations to be implemented under
Senegal's Sixth National Economic and Social Development Plan.



- 11 -
The project itself was never the subject of an appraisal report.
Negotiations between the Bank and the Senegalese authorities took place in
Paris, April 15-17, 1980, and Credit Agreement No. S-26-SE was signed June 18,
1980.
III. Project Execution
The project was executed by SENELEC over the period 1980-1986. Its
various components -- (A) legal studies; (B) audits; (C) architectural
studies; (F) technical assistance to MDIA; (E) training scholarships (MDIA-
SENELEC) -- were carried out to the satisfaction of the parties. The legal
study made by EDF (Electricite de France) culminated in drafting of the legal
instruments on which the new corporation, finally set up in 1983, was founded.
The audits of operations in the years 1979, 1980 and 1981, carried out
by the Coopers-Lybrand Aziz Dieye Group, the winning bi.ders, not only
certified the accounts for those years according to internationally acceptable
standards but also included revaluation of the assets of the two original
companies and determination of the capitalization of the new SENELEC.
The architectural studies were split up: projections of staff size up
to the year 2000 were commissioned from Societe d'Etudes de Developpement en
Afrigue (SONED); design studies, together with preparation of bidding
documents, were commissioned from two firms, SECHAUD-METZ-SCETEC-CASTETS and
Goudiaby A. Tepa. These materials were submitted and approved by SENELEC.
Because of time pressure, it was thought preferable to postpone the
procurement process and incorporate it into a Second Electric Power Project to
be submitted to the World Bank.
The technical assistance arrangements for the MDIA went ahead normali.
Two experts were recruited by the MDIA -- one through SHAWINIGAN and the other
through TRANS-ENERG -- to serve as advisers over a three-year period, the
first to the Director of Energy Policy and the second to the Minister.
Training scholarships: Both SENELEC and the MDIA sent trainees to
TRANS-ENERG or EDF either for a single long period or several shorter periods.
Those sent by the MDIA for long (nine-month) training with TRANS-ENERG proved
to be well acquainted with the problems associated with both power tariffs and
energy planning and programming, a factor which made for more effective
dialogue between the MDIA and SENELEC.
As far as the studies component of the project is concerned, however,
since there was a balance left from the first disbursement cut-off date from
Credit proceeds allocated for the tariff and legal studies and for the study
on expansion of interconnected-system generating facilities, the Bank agreed
that the following components might be included:
-     a study for a generation/transmission master plan;
-     a critical study on the peat proposal;
-     Mirrlees spare parts for the Saint Louis diesel plant;
-     training for ESIE students in the years 1984/85 and 1985/86.



12 -
The study on expansion of interconnected-system output capacity and the
tariff study were not up to expectations, either those of SENELEC in the first
case or those of the MDIA in the second:
Only the first phase of the study on expanding the output capacity
of the general interconnected system was carried out by the
Fichtner Group. Since SENELEC considered their work to be
incomplete and their conclusions unsatisfactory, it did not renew
their contract for the second phase. With the setting up of
Compagnie des Tourbieres du Senegal (a peat-mining company), the
Government was actively in favor of a peat-burning power station,
and the study effort was oriented so much in this direction that
the MDIA decided to finance the peat proposal study by IVO
Consultants out of the funds remaining from S/26.
The tariff study was carried out jointly by SENELEC and EDF, but
was not approved by the MDIA during the period 1981-1985. A
supplementary SENELEC-EDF study was therefore undertaken in 1986
and led to publication of Tariff Annex No. 5145 of November 15,
1986.
IV.   Project impact on SENELEC
(a)   Structural:  The project led to the merger of the two existing
companies, SENELEC and EDS, and subsequently to the creation of
the new SENELEC with its broader prerogatives. It was also the
occasion for drafting of various legal instruwents regulating the
sector, e.g., SENELEC's articles of association, the decree
regulating power generation, transmission and distribution, etc.
(b)   Organizational:  The project included a full-scale identification
study of the power sector. In the early stages, the accounts of
the two existing companies were audited and adapted to
international audit standards. Once the diagnostic process was
completed, a Sector Rehabilitation Plan was formulated, the most
concrete manifestation of which was the maintenance agreement, or
contrat-plan, spelling out all "rights and obligations" between
the Government and SENELEC.
(c)   Investment planning and programming:  The project enabled SENELEC
to take fuller account in its forward investment planning of all
the constraints affecting its key clients, but at the same time
safeguard its own long-term financial health. Direct dialogue was
opened between SENELEC and these clients and also between SENELEC
and the MDIA. This made it possible to put together a minimal
program, the First Electric Power Project, designed to restore
SENELEC to financial equilibrium.
(d)   Financial:  The project goal here was to halt the deterioration of
SENELEC's financial situation by introducing adequate tariffs and
reorganizing its finances. The two components of this objective



- 13 -
were achieved. The new tariff structure published in November
1986 will generate sufficient resources in the period 1986-90 to
absorb the deficits accumulated in the fiscal years from 1982 to
1985 and to return SENELEC to a profit-making position as of 1986.
As to the corporation's improved financial status, it was the
result of revaluation of its assets, a move which endowed it with
substantial equity capital and with the consequent greater
creditworthiness.
(e)   Management:  The diagnostic study showed SENELEC's needs for
technical assistance in the areas of generation/transmission,
client management and financial management. Three specialists
from the HYDRO-QUEBEC Group have now begun developing various
performance indicators that should help keep SENELEC management
effective.
In conclusion, it may be fairly stated that the enumeration of the
problems identified through Project S-26 was exhaustive enough to pinpoint the
difficulties affecting the sector and to find remedies for them. As far as
the disbursement of Credit proceeds is concerned, delays by the Bank in
meeting requests for disbursements were often the cause of repeated inquiries
from our partners. In addition, the Bank did not always show the anticipated
degree of understanding of our requests for reallocation of undisbursed
balances.
Except for these few difficulties, we are able to affirm that Credit S-
26 was marked by close cooperation with the Bank, which, through its various
supervision missions and reports, enabled all parties -- SENELEC, the Bank
itself and MDIA -- to remain abreast of problems and correct them despite the
delays mentioned.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION
SENEGAL
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT S-26-SE)
PART III: .ATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Rolated Bank Loans and/or Credit.
Loan/Credit                                                 Year of
No.               Title / Typ, of Businges            Approval         Status
Cr. 1398-SE             To help finance                 07/07/83        Completion of date place
Second Parapublic       activities aimed at                             for June 90.
Technical               improving efficiency
Assistance              of public enterprises
Project                 reducing the public
sector deficit.
Cr. 1710-SE             To help finance                 06/20/88        Under impl mentation.
First Energy            construction and
Sector                  rehabilitat;on
Rehabilitation          electricity generator
Project                 facilities,
strongth-ning and
expanding transmission
and distribution
systems.
Cr. 1323-SE             To help tho Governmont          02/08/83        Completed.
Petroleum               promote petroleum
Exploration             exploration by foreign
Project                 companies, assist in
Carrying out
exploration of the
Dism Nindio area.
2. Project Timetable
Date         Date          Date
Item                                    Planned       Revised       Actual
Idontification (EPS)                                                     6/79
Projoct Brief                                                           07/27/79
Appraisal Mission                                                       10/31/79
Negotiations                                   4/80                     4/16/80
Board Approval                                 6/80                     6/19/80
Signature                                                               6/18/80
Effectiveness                                                           8/29/80
Closing                                       6/30/84     6/30/84       6/30/86
6/30/86
Completion                                   12/31/83     12/31/84      6/30/86
12/31/86
3.                                       USE OF BANW RESOURCES
Staff Input (SW)
Stage of
Project Cycle                                             Actual
Through Appraisal                                           9.6
Appraisal through Board Appr.                               7.4
Board App. thr. Effectiveness                               2.9
Supervision                                                99.8



- 15 -
4. Mission*
Month/       No. of        Days in                    Perform.
Year        Persons        Field   Spocialization   Rating
Loan 1323-SE
Appraisal             10/79
Supervision 1          9/80           2             4         EGR,FNA           1
Supervision 2          4/81           1             2            EGR            1
Supervision 3         11/81           3             4      ECN, EGR, FNA        1
Supervision 4          4/82           3             7      EGR, ECN, FNA        1
Supervision 6          1/83           2             8         EGR, FNA          1
Supervision S         12/83           2            12         ECR, FNA          1
Supervision 7          6/84           1             9            EGR            1
Supervision 8          8/84           2            10         EGR, FNA          1
Supervision 9          2/86           2            12         FNA, EGR          1
Supervision 10         8/86           6             16        FNA, ECN          1
Supervision 11        10/86           2             10        FNA, EGR          1



- 16 -
SENEGAL
POWER ENGINEERING A T.A. PROJECT - CR. S-26-SE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DISBURSEMENT INFORMATION
(U.S. S UILLI2NS)
Appraisal Est.     Actual Amt.     Actual X of   Actual X of
FISCAL YEAR                        Cumulative         Cumulative      Entimated        Total
…________________________        ---------------  ---------------  -------------   ----------
1981
September 1980
December 1980
March 1981                                                  0.21                          6.40
June 1981                                                   0.26                          7.9X
1982
September 1981                              1.40            0.38           27.1X         11.6X
December 1981                               1.70            0.41           24.1X         12.4X
March 1982                                  2.10            0.62           29.5X         18.8X
Juno 1982                                   2.40            0.76           31.3X         22.7X
1983
September 1982                              2.60            0.79           30.4%         23.9X
Docember 1982                               2.80            1.02           38.4X         30.9X
March 1983                                  2.90            1.27           43.SX         38.6X
June 1983                                   3.10            1.33           42.9X         40.3X
1984
September 1983                              3.20            1.42           44.4X         43.0X
December 1983                               3.30            1.61           46.8X         46.8X
March 1984                                  3.30            1.69           48.2X         48.2W
June 1984                                   3.30            1.96           69.1X         69.1X
198F
September 1984                                              1.96                         69.1W
Decomber 1984                                               2.01                         60.9X
March 1985                                                  2.36                         71.2X
June 1986                                                   2.42                         73.3X
1986
September 1986                                              2.64                         80.0X
December 1986                                               2.69                         81.6X
March 1986                                                  2.89                         87.ex
Juno 1986                                                   3.03                         91.8X
1987
September 1986                                              3.13                         94.8X
Docember 1986                                               3.22                         97.ex
March 1987                                                  3.30                        100.0O
June 1987



