Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2761a-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
April 28, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:        CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00            =  CFAF 210
CFAF 1 million    =  US$4,762
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
1 meter (m)                 =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2 )        = 10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)              =  2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Agency
CVCCEP    -    Commission de Verification des Comptes et de Controle
des Etablissements Publics
EDS       -    Electricite du Senegal
EEOA      -    Compagnie de l'Eau et de l'Electricite de l'Ouest Africain
FED       -    European Development Fund
GNP       -    Gross National Product
MIDC      -    Ministry of Industrial Development and Craftmanship
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
MOPA      -    Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
SEIB      -    Societe d'Electricite Industrielle du Baol
SEIC      -    Societe d'Electricite Industrielle de Casamaance
SENELEC   -    Societe Senegalaise de Distribution d'Energie Electrique
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                Republic of Senegal
AMOUNT:                  US$3.3 million equivalent
TERMS:                    10 years including 3 years of grace. The proposed
Credit would be refinanced under a future Loan/Credit
for a project in the power sector.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:    The objectives of the project would be (i) to help
Government prepare a national energy plan and improve
planning in the power sector; (ii) to provide institu-
tion building in the power sector; (iii) to improve
accounting systems and procedures in the power sector;
and (iv) to ensure a rational medium-term development
of Senegal's major power generating facilities. The
project would include: (i) a study to determine the
optimal organization of the power sector, including
proposals for the creation of a national entity to
replace the two existing companies; (ii) financial
studies and external audits of the existing companies
for fiscal years 1979, 1980 and 1981; (iii) a design
study of headquarters for the future national entity,
to be followed by architectural specifications,
preparation of bidding documents, and analysis
of bids; (iv) the feasibility-study of the expansion
of power generating facilities, to be followed by
detailed engineering, preparation of bidding documents
and analysis of bids; (v) a tariff study which would
make recommendations on the structure and level of
electricity tariffs; (vi) technical assistance
to develop a national energy plan and improve power
sector planning; and (vii) scholarships for energy
planning. The Government is keenly interested in this
project, and its full support, which will be needed in
implementing recommendations from the various project
studies, is expected. The project faces no special
risks.
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST: The cost of the proposed project is estimated at
about US$4.0 million equivalent (tax excluded) with
a foreign cost component of about US$3.3 million
equiyalent. The Government has agreed to exempt the
project elements from all taxes. The table below
summatizes the cost estimates:
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
/~



- ii -
Local       Foreign         Total
_____----- US$ O000------
Power sector organization study              5            75            80
Financial studies and
audits                                      55           305           360
Design study of headquarters
for future national entity                150            450           600
Feasibility study of generating
facilities' expansion                       75           675           750
Tariff study                                50           200           250
Technical Assistance                       220           650           870
Scholarships                                 -          135           135
Base Line Cost                        555         2,490         3,045
Contingencies                         170           810           980
TOTAL PROJECT COST                725         3,300         4,025
Financing Plan:
IDA Credit                                    -       3,300         3,300
Government contribution
provided by EDS/SENELEC's cash
generation                                 725        _                725
TOTAL                                 725         3,300         4,025



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
FY81      FY82       FY83      FY84
Annual               1.1        1.3       0.7        0.2
Cumulative           1.1       2.4        3.1        3.3
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: None
Map: IBRD No. 14976






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Senegal for the equivalent of US$3.3
million to help finance a Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project.
The Credit would be for 10 years including a grace period of 3 years, and
would be refinanced under a possible Loan/Credit envisaged for a project in
the power sector.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "The Economic Trends and Prospects of Senegal"
(1720a-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on lIarch 10, 1980.
The following paragraphs reflect the conclusions of this report. Country data
appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Senegal, at the western extreme of the African continent, has
three-quarters of its territory in the Sahel zone which suffers froni low
rainfall and periodic droughts. In the traditional sector of the economy,
the mainstay is millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic
consumption, and groundnut cultivation for exports. Soils are generally poor,
and periodically food shortages occur in the months between the sowing and
harvesting of the next crop. The large river basins -- some of them fed in
the tropical rain zone -- have so far been exploited only marginally. Land
distribution is fairly even. In the western part of the country arable land
is becoming scarce, but in the extreme southeast some good land is still
available. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar, the
capital, a city of about one million inhabitants, the economic base of which
consists of excellent port facilities, an important industrial sector, and a
small but fast-growing tourism industry. Senegal's per capita GNP for 1978
was estimated at US$340.
4.        During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stag-
nation as real output increased at about the same pace as population, at
a rate estimated at 2.7 percent per annum.  Two factors were responsible for
this situation. Firstly, with independence, Senegal lost its privileged
position as the center of French West Africa, and subsequently had to adapt to
its reduced economic, administrative, and political position. Secondly, in
the latter part of the decade, production of groundnuts (its principal export)
fell due to unfavorable weather and declining export prices.
1/ The text of this Section is substantially unchanged from the President's
Report for the Fourth Highway Project which was submitted to the
Executive Directors on March 18, 1980.



- 2 -
5.        In the 1970s, Senegal's narrow-based export sector was hit by sharp
fluctuations in volumes and prices, and even with the achievement of higher
rates of both private and public investment, average annual growth was not
raised above the earlier 10 years' level. Thus, output and incomes were
depressed in 1972 and 1973 by the Sahel's most severe drought in over a
century. Thereafter, when weather conditions improved and purchasing power
of the rural population was substantially restored, both agricultural and
industrial production increased markedly. However, in 1977 the country
suffered another severe drought, the magnitude of which is reflected in the
variations in groundnut crops; from a historical record of 1.45 million tons
in 1975/76 (more than double the average for the 1968-73 period), output fell
to less than 0.6 million tons in 1977/78; it recovered to about 1.0 million
tons in 1978/79, but the most recent crop fell again, to less than 0.7
million tons. Despite these wide fluctuations in agricultural production,
industrial output (excluding groundnut processing) did grow at a fairly even
rate of about 5 percent a year. Thanks to the recovery from the earlier
droughts, real GDP increased at about 5 percent between 1973 and 1977, but in
1978 it is estimated to have declined by 10 percent reflecting the effect of
the 1977/78 drought, and, after recovery in 1979, is expected in 1980 to
remain about 4 percent below its 1977 level due to the bad crops in 1979/80.
6.        The large fluctuations in physical production were aggravated by
price fluctuations of Senegal's major export and import commodities. In 1974,
the terms of trade improved by over 21 percent, because of exceptionally
high prices for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity.  However,
in 1975 export prices for both phosphate rock and groundnuts declined sharply.
The recent hike in oil prices brought a further deterioration in terms of
trade, causing a loss in income of roughly 5 percent of GDP compared to the
favorable year in 1974. These wide international price fluctuations, together
with the above fluctuations in output, had serious consequences on domestic
prices, public finance, and balance of payments.
Public Finance
7.        The Government has responded with flexibility in adapting
its financial policies to changes in the economic environment. In 1974,
the retail prices for rice, sugar, and groundnut oil were raised by
40 to 90 percent in order to reduce consumer subsidies that had increased
substantially following the price hikes for these commodities on the world
market. Government also brought producer prices for groundnuts closer to
world prices which were particularly high at that time. The loss of revenue
to the Treasury because of this latter step was expected to be compensated by
additional revenues from phosphate production, in which Government increased
its participation as well as levied an 80 percent tax on excess profits,
which accrued from the quadrupling of export prices of phosphates in 1974.
In 1974 and 1975, Government did indeed receive high revenues from phosphates
amounting to roughly US$45 million a year, or 12 percent of tax receipts.



- 3 -
8.        These steps led to a net increase in public savings after debt
service from a yearly average of US$25 million during 1971-73, to US$46
million during 1974-76. This high level of public savings was doubtless an
important factor in stimulating Government to increase public investment
outlays from a yearly average of US$24 million to US$49 million during the
same two periods. In addition, however, Government purchases of equity and
lending to domestic enterprises increased sharply, mainly because of increased
participation in the phosphate mine and the acquisition of two foreign-owned
public utility companies. The combined capital outlays of the Government were
thus substantially in excess of public savings, and were financed in large
part through medium-term foreign bank loans. As a consequence, foreign debt
service carried by the Central Government increased from US$8 million in
1972/73 to US$38 million in 1975/76, representing about 10 percent of Central
Government revenues.
9.        A sudden fall in world phosphate prices in 1976 eliminated Govern-
ment revenues from this source. In the following year, Government increased
taxes, limited recurrent expenditures, and undertook some new commercial
borrowing for its investment program. When it became clear that the 1977/78
crop would fail, Government endeavored to avoid famine in the countryside by
importing more cereals and absolving farmers' debts; however, the added
financial burden which these measures entailed was accompanied by reductions
in capital expenditures, which were financed through heavy commercial borrowing
amounting to US$122 million in 1977 and US$200 million in 1978. As a conse-
quence, in 1980/81, when grace periods are over, debt service obligations of
the budget will reach about US$150 million (or 18 percent of Government
revenues).
10.       In August 1978, the National Assembly was called from summer
recess to approve a new fiscal package amounting to US$20 million in additional
revenues. The 1978/79 budget presented a tax reform that aimed at initiating
removal of tariff distortions and administrative deficiencies, but which also
increased Government receipts through reductions in exemptions. Further tax
measures are in preparation for the 1980/81 budget which will bring the ratio
of Government receipts to GDP to a very high 29 percent, as compared to 19
percent in 1970/71 and 23 percent in 1976/77.
Balance of Payments
11.       The balance of payments came under heavy pressure in 1973 because
of low groundnut exports and increasing imports of foodstuffs and equipment
goods, and Senegal's net foreign assets fell to minus US$15 million.
In the following years, the deficit on current account was reduced, but
outflows of private capital related to the acquisition of foreign enterprises
continued, and net foreign assets declined further to minus US$48 million at
the end of 1975. Since then, the situation has not improved. In 1976, the
State Marketing Board purchased a record groundnut crop at the high producer
prices established in 1974, injecting massive purchasing power into the
economy and adding to the domestic demand resulting from the Government's



- 4 -
monetary and budgetary policies, which in turn put added pressure on imports.
However, because both groundnut and phosphate prices were at considerably
lower levels in 1976, export revenues stagnated; even though there were price
declines of the same order in some of Senegal's food imports, the net effect
on the terms of trade was heavily negative. Although the 1976/77 groundnut
crop was good, the balance of payments stayed in deficit. The 1977/78 drought
caused a loss of US$200 million in groundnut revenues, but the Government's
commercial borrowing limited the decline of net foreign assets to US$93
million. In 1979, the groundnut crop was good and Senegal received an alloca-
tion from the EEC STABEX Fund of US$64 million as a payment for the shortfall
in groundnut exports in 1978, but strong import demand, the terms of trade
loss from the hike in oil prices, and the fall in groundnut prices, led to a
further decline in net foreign assets of at least US$90 million,l/ reducing
the level of these assets to minus US$236 million at the end of the year.
These negative reserves were financed by outstanding drawings on the DMIF in an
amount of US$52 million, by a change in Senegal's position in the monetary
union, and through short-term foreign borrowing by the commercial banks.
12.       Although exogenous factors such as droughts and variations in world
market prices explain in part the fall in net foreign assets since 1973,
it is also due to more perennial factors such as sluggish growth of export
volumes, slow drawings on public aid commitments, increasing debt service
related to heavy reliance on commercial funds, and excessively expansionary
monetary and budgetary policies. Senegal's basic problem has been the failure
of production and exports to respond to higher investment levels and other
expansionary policies.
Stabilization Program
13.       In his annual speech to the National Assembly in December 1979,
the Prime Minister explained the urgency of modifying prevailing tendencies
in the economy, and outlined a medium-term rehabilitation and stabilization
program. This program was informally but extensively discussed with, and
broadly supported by the Bank and the Fund. The main objectives are to
increase substantially the level of domestic savings, especially in the
public sector, over a period of six years, with the first two years focussing
mainly on stabilization, and the following four years (which would coincide
with the Sixth Four-Year Plan) on the achievement of a modestly higher rate
of economic growth of 4 percent a year.
1/   The most recent estimate records a decline in foreign reserves of
US$120 million in 1979 due to an as yet unexplained acceleration of
imports in the last quarter of the year.



- 5 -
14.       According to the stabilization plan, public savings after debt
service would increase from 1 percent of GDP in 1978/79 to 3.5 percent of GDP
in 1985, mainly through a freeze of recurrent expenditures in real terms. Any
shortfalls below this target are to be compensated by new tax measures and
increased savings from public entities such as the stabilization fund. This
savings target would allow the Treasury to contribute at least 15 percent to
financing of the public investment program in the near future, to be improved
to 25 percent by 1985. The 15 percent minimum contribution serves a planning
function and is likely to be exceeded in favorable years, but may fall short
in unfavorable years, such as in 1977/78 when it dropped to a negative level.
In such cases, the additional requirements in foreign finance should be on
concessionary terms.
15.       Increased financial savings in the private sector would be encouraged
by higher interest rates on deposits and savings certificates, and through
the allocation of cheap housing loans based on earlier savings performance.
In rural areas, the savings of farmers will be mobilized. However, the bulk
of private savings will have to come from private enterprises. To achieve
this goal, the Government has undertaken to ease price policies in order to
restore profit margins, while imposing higher levies on non-re-invested
profits. A tighter credit policy, in particular for non-productive projects,
will evidently increase the need for independent generation of funds in the
private sector.
16.       Recognizing that the savings drive will weaken domestic demand and
that production costs in Senegal are too high to meet foreign competition,
the Government is taking steps to rationalize protection to the domestic
producers by raising import duties while achieving greater uniformity in
their application; it is also considering the possibility of subsidizing
export industries with excess capacity. This policy allows for the fact that
parity of the local currency is fixed in the framework of the monetary union
to which Senegal belongs and that the CFA franc has de facto appreciated over
time relative to most non-franc currencies, especially the dollar.
17.       The situation of the para-public sector--which represents a serious
drain on Government finances--is expected to become more sound with the
conclusion of medium-term "program contracts" between the Ministry of Finance
and individual para-public enterprises, with the aim to reduce present levels
of budget support. According to the terms of these contracts, enterprises
will be given more scope to adjust tariffs to more economical levels.
18.       The stabilization program imposes ceilings on commercial borrowing
abroad and restricts its use to projects that generate a sufficient cash flow
to service such debt, and eliminates Government guarantees on loans to private
and mixed enterprises unless such guarantees are required by the statutes of
the lending institution. These measures will bring a highly desirable reduc-
tion in Government's exposure to commercial risks.
19.       To achieve the objectives of the stabilization plan, a recent
administrative reform has placed all public finance functions under the
Minister of Finance. Of particular importance is the centralization of debt
management (previously a responsibility split between the Minister of Finance



and the Prime Minister), an arrangement which will allow the system to have
its own tax resources and bank account, and an imprcved system of financial
planning and control.
20.       The trend in wages in the modern sector remains a matter of some
concern. After sizable wage increases in 1979, Government decided as of
January 1, 1980 to raise the minimum wage by 25 percent; and Government
salaries were increased from 34.4 percent for the lowest paid workers to 3.6
percent for the highest paid, to be followed by another increase of 7 percent
as of July 1. These increases are meant to compensate for past inflation
and to cushion the effect on real incomes of the stabilization measures;
however, they are relatively large and may lead to excessive inflationary
pressure. Domestic inflation in 1979 was about 10 percent, which is well
below the rate of inflation internationally.
Longer-Term Prospects
21.       The Government's long-range development strategy continues to be
based on the promotion and diversification of agriculture and export-oriented
activities. The agricultural program calls for development of areas less
afflicted by drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal), where cash crops other
than groundnuts can be grown. Irrigated cereal production is being developed
in the arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River. This policy
will make the country less dependent on the uncertainties of its climate and
world market prices, and reduce the heavy burden of food imports. To stimulate
agricultural production in the Groundnut Basin, which has not substantially
increased since Independence, Government proposes to overhaul the state-
cooperative system, trimming the heavy bureaucracy and transferring economic
initiative back to the farmers. Agricultural research will be oriented more
on farm systems than on individual crops, with the objective of lowering the
costs of the agricultural techniques propagated, and better adapting them to
farmers' needs. The Government also aims at a modest expansion of phosphate
mining, and development of light export industries and tourism; moreover,
contracts have been signed for construction of a ship-repair yard, and plans
for a phosphoric acid plant are in an advanced stage. However, with limited
prospects for export growth in the groundnut sector, and because of the modest
scale of the export subsidy scheme, no spectacular improvements in the
balance of payments can be expected. Government counts heavily on the
implementation of a number of large investments, either in irrigation to
diminish the heavy dependence on rice imports, or in export-oriented manu-
facturing industries. However, these investments have long gestation periods
and involve the Government in substantial risks, and a cautious view of the
long-term outlook is therefore warranted. Even if economic growth could be
raised to a modest 4 percent a year between 1982 and 1985, the average growth
rate between 1977 and 1985, because of the decline in GDP in 1978 and 1980,
would probably not exceed 2.4 percent a year, which is still not above popula-
tion growth.
22.       Government intends to rely more on the private sector for investment
in industry, tourism and other productive activities; however, it will take
some time before this new emphasis will be reflected in the composition of
investments. The private sector has a low propensity to invest because of
Senegal's relatively high production costs, and (after a period of active



- 7 -
state intervention) often insists upon Government participation or loan
guarantees for new ventures, thus reducing the size of its risks. Moreover,
some public investments are needed in view of the country's critical depen-
dence on state-financed irrigation.
23.       The stabilization plan will help Senegal to overcome the effects of
the recent drought, the higher oil prices, and the high debt service built up
over the past five years. Its strict implementation is therefore crucial for
Senegal's economic growth and creditworthiness. To help Government achieve
the structural reforms needed, the Bank is planning, as a first step, to
expand ongoing technical assistance to the parapublic sector and in particular
to the agricultural institutions, provide assistance to the setting up and
implementation of the export subsidy scheme, help Government in establishing
systems to monitor national savings, assist in improving selection and
preparation of projects, and support the administrative reorganization in the
Ministry of Finance to assure speedier execution of ongoing projects.
Creditworthiness
24.       The ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services increased
rapidly from less than 7 percent until 1976 to 13 percent in 1979, and an
estimated 16 percent in 1980. This steep increase is mainly the result of a
rise in the share of commercial borrowing from about 25 percent of total
borrowing during 1973-76 to an average of 56 percent during 1977 and 1980.
This trend should not be permitted to continue in view of Senegal's fragile
economy. Thanks to considerable restraint by the Government on commercial
borrowing in 1979 (US$9 million), and the termination of repayments on earlier
commercial credits, debt service will level off in the early 1980's. In the
medium-term, expected improvement in export performance related to better
crops, a few large export-oriented projects, and implementation of the export
incentive scheme is expected to allow Government to keep the debt service
ratio around 15 percent of export earnings.
25.       The weak balance of payments position is dominated by the need to
strengthen Senegal's foreign reserve position. In the short term, Senegal can
afford low reserve levels through its membership in the West African Monetary
Union which provides for pooling of foreign reserves, and whose currency is
guaranteed unlimited convertibility by the French Treasury. Moreover, as the
experience in 1978 has shown, IMF and STABEX facilities provide a buffer for
the periodic drops in export revenues linked with droughts and fluctuations in
world market prices. However, if Senegal maintains negative balances for an
extended period, it could weaken the monetary union whose existence is
a cornerstone for Senegal's creditworthiness. The impact on the balance of
payments of the oil price rise since 1977, and the bad 1979/80 groundnut crop
to be sold at low prices, would be on the order of $238 million (or 9 percent
of GDP); estimates of the deficit on current account of the 1980 balance of
payments range around 15 percent of GDP. Since Senegal's debt service burden
is already extremely heavy, full Eurodollar financing of these deficits
should not be envisaged. Foreign donors should therefore be prepared to raise
the percentage of foreign finance in their projects, and consider program aid



in the first instance to help cushion the impact of these developments on net
foreign assets, as well as to support the structural reforms being undertaken
as part of the stabilization plan.
26.       With implementation of the Government's economic stabilization
plan, Senegal would remain creditworthy for some lending on IBRD terms. The
Government has demonstrated its commitment to development by expanding its
public investment effort substantially between 1970/71 and 1977/78 and has
shown adequate capacity to respond to the problems which its vulnerable
economy is bound to encounter periodically. Senegal's prospects for long-tern
diversification and growth are modest, but essential to provide a reasonable
basis for social and economic development. Its access to short-term financing
facilities and membership in the West African Monetary Union also reduce the
risks associated with economic fluctuations. However, as discussed in para.
25 above, Senegal will continue to need substantial concessionary assistance,
heavy local cost financing of projects, and program aid associated with
necessary stabilization measures and a program of structural reforms.
PART II - WORLD BA4K OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
27.       The Bank Group has had 44 operations in Senegal to date.  Total
outstanding amounts to US$279.4 million, including 23 IDA credits, 14 Bank
loans, three blends of Bank and IDA funds, four IFC operations, and one blend
of Bank and IFC funds. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits, and IFC investments as of March 31, 1980, and notes on the
implementation of ongoing projects. Physical execution of these projects is
progressing reasonably well, although some operations are affected by the
shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's continuing difficult
public finance situation, as well as by lack of qualified local staff for key
positions. But institutional bottlenecks in several sectors constitute the
largest obstacle to efficient project implementation. The Government is well
aware of the need to reduce delays caused by these problems, and particularly
of the importance of assuring good management supervision of projects in all
sectors. In this respect, the ongoing Para-Public Sector Technical Assist-
ance initiates and implements measures necessary to resolve on a sector-
wide basis some of the issues regarding the financial management and Govern-
ment control of public enterprises and mixed companies, particularly those
that are channels for Bank Group assistance. In addition, the Government
has created in late 1978 an Interministerial Committee with representation of
foreign aid donors, to expedite preparation of new investment projects, and
to identify bottlenecks in project execution and take remedial action. The
work of this committee has already begun to produce some positive results.



- 9 -
28.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1977-81 will stay at around 12 percent, of which roughly 54
percent in IDA financing. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed
debt was 18 percent in 1979, and will (after falling slightly in 1980-83)
slowly start to surpass that level, reaching about 20 percent in 1985. The
Bank Group's share in public debt service is expected to increase from 3.8
percent in 1979 to about 4.9 percent in 1985, a rise which is mainly due to
the increase in Bank loans from 32 percent of the Bank Group's total outstand-
ing and disbursed funds to Senegal to about 42 percent by 1985.
29.       The objectives of Bank Group lending in Senegal concur with the
Government's strategy and fall under five main headings. First, priority
continues to be given to rural development, including development of
irrigation in the Senegal River Valley Region, rainfed agriculture in the
well-watered southern regions of the country, intensification of groundnut
production and diversification into new crops and new regions, national
projects for improvement of agricultural research and for reforestation,
and a Small Rural Operations Project which was approved by the Executive
Directors earlier this year. As in the past, agricultural lending over the
next few years is expected to exceed one-third of the total. Second, the Bank
Group has supported diversification of the economy by lending to the growing
industrial sector through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Develop-
pement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development finance
company established with Bank Group assistance in 1974, and through an ongoing
project for development of tourism infrastructure. Third, Bank Group projects
have supported modernization and expansion (where economically desirable) of
the country's infrastructure. In the recent past, a Second Aviation Project
was approved in FY79 and a Fourth Highway Project was approved earlier this
year. Also, an engineering project approved in FY79 finances studies and
technical assistance for water supply and sanitation development in eleven
secondary centers, and is expected to pave the way for future Bank Group
involvement in that sector. Similarly, the proposed project is intended to
prepare our intervention in the power sector. Fourth, assistance is being
provided under the Third Education Project approved in FY79 to help the
Government re-orient and expand the country's education system at all levels,
by meeting in particular the needs for trained high- and middle-level techni-
cians and managers in the modern sector and in agricultural development
activities, and by increasing access to primary education, particularly in
rural areas. The Bank Group remains conscious of the need to support other
projects in the social services sector (within the limits of the Government's
ability to bear the recurrent costs involved), and has started preparing a
production-oriented integrated food and nutrition project. Finally, continuing
assistance is being provided to help Government increase its absorptive
capacity for planning, executing, and managing development projects through
institutional support within individual Bank Group projects, and through
broader efforts such as the Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project.
Several Bank Group operations, notably in tourism, telecommunications, port
infrastructure, loans to SOFISEDIT, and in airport development, have the
additional merit of generating revenues for the Senegalese Treasury.



- 10 -
PART III - THE POWER AND ENERGY SECTOR
30.       Senegal derives about 60 percent of its overall energy consumption
from wood (firewood and charcoal), a relatively scarce resource which is
increasingly threatened as a result of several droughts in the past years.
There is evidence that offshore heavy oil deposits may exist, and the possibil-
ity of developing them is being examined with Bank assistance under a PPF
advance of $200,000 approved in January 1980. The Senegal and Gambia rivers
are also known to have hydropower potential, but this has so far not proven to
be economically viable.  Lacking coal, national gas, proven oil reserves and
hydropower potential within a reasonable transmission distance from the loads,
Senegal relies heavily on imported oil to supplement wood to meet the country's
overall energy requirements.  As a result of the oil crisis of the 1970's, the
oil import bill of Senegal has increasingly strained the country's balance of
payments and the power sector in particular. Accordingly, the Government is
seeking to develop alternative sources of energy and for that purpose is
giving high priority to the formulation of a national energy plan to determine
the most rational development and use of various energy sources.
31.       Several Government departments are assuming responsibilities in the
energy sector: the Ministry of Industrial Development and Craftsmanship (MIDC)
is responsible for hydrocarbon energy resources, the Ministry of Equipment for
hydropower resources, the Ministry of Rural Development for timber/forests
resources and the Ministry of Scientific and Technical Research for renewable
energy resources (solar, wind). The Government has created a National Energy
Commission to coordinate sector activities but, largely because of the diffi-
culties of gathering its large membership, this Commission has not properly
functioned. In order to help the Government formulate coordinated and coherent
national energy policies, the project would finance two energy advisers to
MIIDC, whose principal duties would be to help (i) prepare proposals for the
overall organization and coordination of the energy sector, and (ii) formulate
a comprehensive national energy plan.
Power Sector Organization
32.       The most pressing issue affecting the power sector, which is
under the responsibility of MIDC, is the need to restructure the present
transitional arrangements which expire December 31, 1981. This restructuring
would be studied under the project in order to make possible the creation
of a single national entity responsible for the development and operation
of the power sector.



- 11 -
33.       Until December 1971, a French-owned private company, Compagnie
de l'Eau et de l'Electricite de l'Ouest Africain (EEOA), owned and operated
the power generating, transmission and distribution facilities in Senegal.
Under a Financial Convention dated January 1972, the Government acquired all
of EEOA's power facilities. Compensation in favor of EEOA was financed by a
US$25 million commercial borrowing repayable in seven years with variable
interest rates. At the same time, the Government created two companies: (i)
Electricite du Senegal (EDS), a wholly-owned State corporation, responsible,
on behalf of the Government, for planning and financing the development of the
sector's facilities and for the repayment of the US$25 million Government
borrowing; and (ii) Societe Senegalaise de Distribution d'Energie Electrique
(SENELEC), a mixed-company owned 50 percent by the State through EDS and 50
percent by EEOA, which is responsible, under a January 1972 Concession Agreement,
for managing and operating the sector facilities.1/
34.       In July 1973, a Technical Assistance Contract was signed between
SENELEC and EEOA, under which SENELEC subcontracted to EEOA the technical
operation of the sector's facilities. Under an amendment to the January
1972 Concession Agreement and to the July 1973 Technical Assistance Contract,
signed by the Government, SENELEC and EEOA in February 1978, it was agreed
that, by December 31, 1981, EEOA would sell all its remaining shares in
SENELEC to the Government and terminate its technical assistance to SENELEC.
As a result, a new sector organization will be needed by December 31, 1981,
to replace the present system. For that purpose, consultants, financed under
the Project, would make proposals by December 30, 1980.
Existing Facilities
35.       SENELEC, with a total staff of about 1,700, operates an intercon-
nected power system in and around Dakar and 21 secondary centers with a total
installed capacity of about 165 MW in the interconnected grid; this installed
capacity could increase to about 180 MW by 1983, with the addition of 3 diesel
units of about 5 MW each in Kaolack. The largest plant (oil-fired-steam)
presently has an installed capacity of 101.5 MW in good working condition (the
oldest unit commissioned in 1966), and the second largest plant (also oil-fired-
steam) presently has 51 MW installed in 4 rather old units, commissioned
between 1952 and 1962; all other generating plants have diesel units. The
dependable power in the interconnected grid is about 130 MIW and could reach
about 140 MW in 1983 with the expansion envisaged in Kaolack. Ninety KV
transmission lines, 30 KV subtransmission lines and 6.6 KV primary distribution
lines total 1,346 km. Low voltage lines total 1,538 km. Consumption in the
interconnected grid reached 476 GWH in 1978, with about 6 GWH in secondary
centers. The annual growth rate of consumption averaged 7.3 percent over the
past 10 years; peak demand in 1978 reached 93.8 MW. Facilities have been
operated and maintained without major problems.
1/   Under the Financial Convention between the Government and EEOA, the
latter agreed to sell its 50 percent share in SENELEC to the Government
in three equal installments on December 31, 1976, 1981 and 1986.



- 12 -
Sector Development and Planning
36.       Eighty-six percent of the electricity distributed in 1977 went to
the Cap Vert and Thies regions. Consumers in those regions are hundreds of
kilometers away from any of the potential hydroelectric dam sites on the
Senegal and Gambia rivers and their tributaries, and it is unlikely that
hydropower will be a major source of supply for them in the next 10/15 years.
With insignificant natural gas reserves and presently unrecoverable offshore
heavy oil reserves, Senegal has very few alternatives to crude oil imports
(refined in Dakar's refinery) for electricity generation. Solar energy,
because of its high cost, is unlikely to be a significant source of energy in
the foreseeable future.
37.       At the present time, no overall planning exists in the power sector.
A 25-year master plan of the development of the sector, financed by the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), is underway and is expected
to be completed by mid-1981. It would lead to recommendations on the long-
term development needs of the sector. However, on the basis of load estimates
made by SENELEC, the immediate concern of the Government is the gap, expected
to develop by 1984/85, between demand and available power within the intercon-
nected grid. It is to respond to this concern that the project would finance
a feasibility study of the required expansion of the generating facilities
over the next few years. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that,
although the scope of the proposed studies is different from that of the
CIDA-financed exercise, the Government would ensure a close coordination among
them so as to avoid any duplication (Section 3.02 (e) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Tariffs
38.       Until 1977, electricity tariffs in Senegal were based on old
structures in effect since 1966. They were based on the average rather
than marginal cost of supply; furthermore preferential rates were applied
inconsistently among large industrial consumers and also among public con-
sumers. In 1976, a comprehensive tariff study was completed based on long-
term marginal cost and put into application nationwide on January 1, 1977 with
a declining block structure and an index formula linking tariffs with fuel
prices, salaries and inflation.   Tariffs were increased in early and mid-1979
to reflect sharp oil price increases. However, their level and structure ought
to be updated as the pattern of consumption has changed and the cost of supply
has continued to increase.
Financial Performance
39.       In 1978 SENELEC billed 482 GlWh at an average tariff of CFAF 24.0
(US$0.11) per kwh. Revenue from sales of electricity was CFAF 11.6 billion
(US$55.2 million) which exceeded cash operating expenses plus debt service and
yielded an 11.8% return on unrevalued net fixed assets in operation of CFAF
13.1 billion (US$62.4 million). Long term debt was CFAF 10.0 billion (US$47.6
million) at the end of 1978, and the relation of debt to equity was about
70:30. Debt service reached the level of CFAF 2.1 billion (US$10.0 million)
in 1978, and the debt service coverage ratio, i.e. internal cash generation
(revenues less operating expenses before depreciation and interest) compared



- 13 -
to debt service, was only 1.3. This is due to the relatively short terms of
some of the loans obtained in the past. Customer accounts of CFAF 3.0 billion
(US$14.1 million) at the end of 1978 were equivalent to about 3 months of
billing which can be considered to be a good performance. The above figures
highlighting the financial situation of the power sector are derived from a
consolidation of EDS's and SENELEC's unaudited financial statements. External
auditors to be financed under the project would not only verify the accounts
but also review accounting procedures and the adequacy of financial controls.
Bank Group Role
40.       The Bank Group objectives in the power and energy sector are to
contribute to the Government's efforts to define coordinated and coherent
policies aimed at exploiting the country's scarce energy resources in the most
efficient way. More specifically, these objectives aim at helping the Govern-
ment formulate and start implementing a comprehensive national energy plan.
With regard to the particular needs of the power sector, the objective is to
help the Government establish an adequate legal and organizational structure
of the sector to ensure its sound development by strengthening its technical,
organizational and financial management.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
41.       The proposed Engineering and Technical Assistance Credit would be
the Association's first operation in the power sector in Senegal. The original
request from the Government in June 1979 was to help determine a rational
decision concerning the next power generating expansion since oil price
increases were becoming more and more difficult to bear. During discussions
with SENELEC's management in July 1979, it appeared that Bank Group assis-
tance would be welcomed by the Government in restructuring the power sector.
In October 1979, during project appraisal and discussions with the Government,
it became apparent that a comprehensive national energy plan had to be formu-
lated to cope with the increasing dependence of the Senegalese economy on
petroleum products; furthermore, the need for training and for an electricity
tariff study was also identified and agreed upon. The project is the result
of discussions with the Government and EDS/SENELEC's management. Negotiations
were held in April 1980 with a Senegalese delegation headed by His Excellency
Louis Alexandrenne, Minister of Planning and Cooperation. There is no Staff
Appraisal Report. Annex III indicates the timetable of key events in project
preparation and processing. IBRD map 14976 shows the location of the main
centers in Senegal.
Project Objectives and Description
42.       The objectives of the project would be (i) to help Government
prepare a national energy plan and improve planning in the power sector; (ii)
to strengthen the institutions of the power sector; (iii) to improve accounting
systems and procedures in the power sector; and (iv) to ensure a rational medium-
term development of the generating facilities within the interconnected system.
The project, which would be carried out over 1980-1983, would include:



- 14 -
(i) a study to determine the optimal organization of the Senegalese
power sector, including examination of, and proposals concerning,
the legal framework of a national entity to be established to
replace the two existing companies; the study would make specific
recommendations to the Government by December 31, 1980 to leave a
full year for Government decision by December 31, 1981 (about 7
man-months);
(ii) financial studies concerning EDS and SENELEC; these studies would
include external audits of the financial statements of both entities,
as well as their consolidated statements, as of the end of December
1979, 1980 and 1981, the latter date coinciding with the establish-
ment of a new legal structure for the sector; the 1979 audit is
needed to provide background data for the above study on sector
reorganization. They would also include proposals for improved
accounting systems and procedures, an outline of an accounting
manual, redesign of internal control, implementation of cost center
accounting, a review of data processing systems, assistance to the
internal auditing section of the entities, and evaluation of training
requirements for their financial staff. During the two years
following initial analysis, the consultants will monitor the imple-
mentation of the proposed improvements which would serve the future
Senegalese power entity (about 30 man-months in total);
(iii) a design study for the construction of a headquarters building for
the future sector entity; this study (including topography, soil
tests, and foundation and structure designs for the building) would
be based on an analysis of the headquarters' staff requirements and
would lead to a proposal for phased construction of a modest and
functional building; it would be followed by execution of architec-
tural specifications, preparation of bidding documents and analysis
of bids (about 50 man-months in total);
(iv) a feasibility study of the expansion of the interconnected system's
generating facilities; this study would analyze the past and present
electricity demand and consumption, make a forecast of generation
requirements over the next ten years, analyze the existing generat-
ing power facilities, and make proposals for an expansion program
based on an economic comparison of several alternative programs;
the merits of energy conservation through efficiency improvement
of the existing power facilities would also be explored; the
feasibility study would be followed by the execution of detailed
engineering, preparation of bidding documents, and analysis of bids
(about 65 man-months in total);
(v) a tariff study which would analyze and make recommendations on the
structure and level of future tariffs; the new tariffs would be
applicable at the beginning of the next Plan period (July 1981)
(about 20 man-months);



- 15 -
(vi) six man-years of technical assistance to MIDC through two senior
advisers experienced in energy resources planning; they would
help formulate a national energy plan and prepare proposals for the
overall organization of the energy sector. One of them would be
a personal adviser to the Minister, and the other would assist, in
particular, with matters relating to the power sector; in addition,
si-srt-term consultancy services would be provided to assist these
advisers in specific tasks; and
(vii) training through scholarships on techniques of energy planning for
3 experienced engineers for 3 years each, two of them from MIDC and
the third one to be employed by the future national entity.
Project Cost
43.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$4.0 million
equivalent, of which about US$3.3 million in foreign exchange (about 82
percent). Cost estimates are net of taxes and based on end of 1979 prices.
For consulting services and technical assistance, estimates are based on
contracts offered in Senegal and other Western African countries over the
past year. For scholarships, estimates are based on experience in education
projects in West Africa. Man-month costs for consulting services and technical
assistance average US$12,000 monthly including about US$2,000 for reimbursable
expenses; scholarships are estimated on the basis of US$15,000 yearly in
foreign currency. Total consulting services under the project amount to about
15 man-years, including about 20 man-months for the architectural specifica-
tions, preparation of bidding documents and analysis of bids for the study of
the future entity's headquarters and about 50 man-months for the detailed
engineering, preparation of bidding documents and analysis of bids for the
study of the expansion of the thermal generation facilities. Technical
assistance amounts to 6 man-years and training (scholarships) to 9 man-years.
Physical contingencies ranging from 5 percent to 15 percent have been applied
for all project components; price contingencies of 10 percent per year have
also been applied throughout the project implementation period.
Project Financing
44.       The proposed Credit of US$3.3 million would cover the entire
foreign exchange cost of the project and would be refinanced under a future
Bank loan or IDA credit. At negotiations, EDS/SENELEC agreed to finance the
local cost component of US$0.7 million equivalent. This undertaking will be
specified in a supplementary letter. The Government has agreed to exempt
the project elements from all taxes.
Retroactive Financing
45.       Retroactive financing of about US$0.2 million equivalent would be
required to cover the following expenditures:
(i) the financial studies covering the accounting systems of EDS/SENELEC
and in particular the initial part of these studies (audit of 1979
accounts), the implementation of which started in December 1979;



- 16 -
(ii)  the power sector organization study, which should start by June 30,
1980 and be completed by December 31, 1980, so that a full year
will be available for the Government to discuss the study's conclu-
sions and recommendations and take the necessary legislative action
by December 31, 1981; and
(iii)  the feasibility study of the expansion of the interconnected
system's generating facilities which should be started without
delay and be completed by December 31, 1980; on the basis of
tentative load forecast, additional generating facilities should
be on line for operation as early as December 1983.
EDS/SENELEC has agreed to prefinance the contracts related to the retroactive
financing. It is recommended that IDA approve the retroactive financing of
US$0.2 million equivalent as described above.
Project Execution
46.       The project studies would be implemented by consulting firms under
the supervision of EDS/SENELEC except for the financial studies and related
external audits which would be carried out by the accounting firms Coopers
and Lybrand, Paris and Aziz Dieye, Dakar, under the monitoring responsibility
of the Government's Auditing Commission (Commission de Verification des
Comptes et de Controle des Etablissements Publics). Project execution is
expected to last from December 1979 (with the initial financial audit of
the 1979 accounts) to December 31, 1983 with the end of the technical assis-
tance to MIDC. All technical assistance and consulting services would be
employed under contracts and terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The
consultants' reports would be submitted in draft to permit review by IDA
before being issued in final version. For the headquarters and the generating
facilities expansion studies, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the Government will review in consultation with IDA the conclusions and
recommendations of the consultants before proceeding with the architectural
specifications/detailed engineering, preparation of bidding documents and
analysis of bids. The consultants' conclusions and recommendations on sector
restructuring, finances and on the tariff study would be discussed between the
Government and IDA, and agreed recommendations would be implemented by the
Government in consultation with IDA. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that the Government will furnish to IDA the final report on the study of
the legal framework of the power sector by December 31, 1980 and take all
measures required for the establishment of a permanent entity by December 31,
1981. (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursements
47.       Credit proceeds would be disbursed as follows:
(i) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost and 80 percent
of the local costs of consulting and expert services; and
(ii) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of scholarships.



- 17 -
Disbursements are expected to begin during the second quarter of FY81 and be
completed during the second quarter of FY84.
Project Benefits and Risks
48.       The proposed project would make an important contribution to helping
the Government achieve its long-range objectives of organizing and streng-
thening the power sector. It would achieve this by preparing a priority
project for possible Bank Group financing, and by financing studies designed
to improve institutional arrangements, technical standards, and financial
policies. Specifically, the organizational and financial studies would
provide the Government with viable proposals for the creation of a single
national electricity entity; the feasibility study component of the project
would help make a rational decision on the expansion of the interconnected
grid's generating facilities; the tariff study would lead to sound and
rational tariff structures; and the technical assistance and training compo-
nents would help the Government establish the technical capacity for develop-
ing a national energy plan.
49.       The project faces no special risks.  Detailed terms of reference
for the proposed studies and a work program for all components of the project
were discussed during project appraisal in order to minimize the risk of the
studies not meeting the project objectives. They were finalized during
negotiations. The Government is keenly interested in this project, and its
full support, which will be needed in implementing recommendations from the
various studies, is expected.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS A1fD AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Senegal and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
51.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are mentioned in the text, and referred to in Section III of
Annex III to this Report.
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
April 28, 1980



- 19 -
ANNEX L
$014AL - SOCAL INDICATObS DATA SHUT
RuFlaC Z GoUls (AJIJST    A]EIS
LOD AREA (THOUSAND SO. EX. )-  OST RECET ESTIATE)
TOTAL             1962                                                     SAN          SNEI      HxT iCHEI
hMICULTJlAL       81.0                                 MHST UECENT       GSOCGACIC    INcoHE         INCOM
1960  /b    1970 Lk ESTIMA   A        tbGtON h    GHour G  OUI   O   0
GMP? R CAPITA (0S)                     180.I0      240.0      340.0            306.1      467.5       1097.7
gICY CONSMUFTION PtR CAPITA
(XILOGAiAS Or COAL E1NIVALD4T)      121.0        13.9.0     156.0            80.6       262.1        730.7
POPULATIOII AND VITAL STATISTlCS
POPV oAXIOU. ,MI O N5D-AA (TLLI0I4s)     3.4         4.4        5.2
IIAN  POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.6          23.7       24.2             17.1       24.6         49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POlATIOW IEN YES  2000 (XILLIOIS)                           9.0
STATIONAIY POPMLTIOE (MILLIONS)                           24.0
TEAA STATIONAIT POPUATION  IS RECHED                     2155
POPULATION OENSITT
PER sq. a(.                        17.0         22.0      27.0             1S.4        45.3         44.6
PER Sq. DC. AINICULTUIAL LAD       43.0         55.0      64.0             50.8       149.0        140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUE (PERCENT)
0-14 1S5.                          42.5         42.9       44.2            44.1        45.2         41.3
15-64  2SS.                         56.0         54.2      52.7             52.9        51.9         55.3
65 TtS. AND ASOon                    1.5          2.9        3.1             2.8         2.8          3.5
POPULATIOI CUOWTR RAT  (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.2          t.4        2.6              2.7        2.7          2.4
UAN                                - 3.5         2.9        2.9              5.7        4.3          4.5
CRUDE SIXRT  RAT! (PE  THOUSAND)      47.9        46.8       48.5             46.3       39.4         31.1
QUDE DEATH RATE (PE  TSOUSAND)        26.7        23.7       22.3             17.2       11.7          9.2
QOSS  UPRODUCTION RATZ                             3.0        3.2              3.1        2.7          2.2
FPA4ILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOIS, ANNUAL (TOUSANDS)                       .
USERS (pPZCENT Of MRIED WNDU)                                                          13.2         34.7
100 AND NCTRITION
INDEX 0t FOD PRODUCTION
PEM  CAPITA (1969-71-100)         124.2         62.0      100.08j          94.3        99.6        104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLT 07
CALORIES (PERCET OP
REqUIzRmNTS)                     97.0         91.0      97.0             89.5        94.7        105.0
PIIDTSNS (GUAS PER DAY)            64.0         64.0      67.1             55.8        54.3         64.4
OF WtlCH ANIMAL AND PULSE                    t16.6L     20.8             17.9        17.4         23.5
CHILD (AES 1-4) MORTALITY RTE         41.0        35.0       32.0             22.3       11.4          S. 6
EALTH
LIE  XPECTANCY AT 3rT (TARS)    37.0              40.0       42.0            47.0        54.7         60.2
INFANT MOITALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                                                                68.1         46. 7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                                       37.0           20.3        34.4         60.8
UlAN                                                        68.0           53.9        57.9         75. 7
IURAL                                                       23.0            10.1       21.2         40.0
ACCESS TO EXCUTA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
oF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                                                      22.5        40.8         46.0
.AN                                                                        62.5        71.3         46.0
RURAL                                                                      13.9        27.7         22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          35000.0      16640.0   16450.0          17424.7      6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PER NS2IIC PtRSON       4110.OLi    2410.0    1660.0            2506.6      1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             940.0        810.0      730.0           502.3       726.5       453.4
URBAN                                          390.0      380.0           201.4       272. 7      253.1
RURAL                                         1300.0    1156.0           1403.6      1404.4      2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                       22. 2      26.7             23.4       27.5         22.1
ROUS ING
AVTBAGR SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                                                       4.9         5.4          5.3
URJAN                                                       76              4.9         5.1         5.2
ROSAL                                                       6.0             5.5         5.5         5.4
AVERAGt NUMBER OF PEWONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..              ..          ..          1.9
URBAN                                                                                                1.6
RURAL                                                                                              52.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCE
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                                                                  28.1         50.0
URBAN                                                                                  45.1         71.7
RURAL                                                                                   9.9        17.3



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
SENEGAL - SOCLAL INDICATORS. DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADrJUSTED AyERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAIIE       SA.MtE    NEXT  ICGHER
-MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOtIE        LNCOtE
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   CROUP /d    GROUP /e
-DUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLME.T RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  2'.0         43.0       45.0             59.0        82.7         102.5
MALE                   36.0         53.0       55.0             64.2        87.3         108.6
FEMALE                 17.0         33.0       35.0             44.2        75.8         97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    3.0         10.0       11.0              9.0        21.4          33.5
MALE                    4.0         15.0       16.0             12.0        33.0         38.4
FEMALE                  2.0          6.0        7.0              4.4        15.5         30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)  23.0             9.0       10.0               7.0         9.8         11.5
PUPIL-TEACiMR RATIO
PRI'IARY                               ..         45.0       49.0             42.2        34. 1         35.8
SECONDARY                            34.0         29.0       22.0             22.9        23.4          22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERC )             5.6/h       10.0       10.0              20.8        54.0         64.0
CONSUfPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            6.0          9.0        9.2              4.0         9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          47.0          69.0       69.0             44.3        76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUTLATION                            ..          0.4        8.0              2.9        13.5         38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     6.0          5.0        7.0               5.6        18.3         40.0
CINE!1A ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        1.2               0.4         2.5          3.7
LABOR FORCE
TITAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        1300.0       1570.0    1770.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     39.7         39.1       38.8             31.9        29.2          25.0
AG RICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.6         79.7       77.0             77.6        62.7         43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    5.4          6.6        9.0              7.9        11.9         21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  46.6         44.3       42.8              40.8        37.1         33.5
MALE                                   56.7         54.5       53.0              53.9        48.8         48.0
FEMALE                                 36.8         34.3       32.8              25.6       20.4          16.8
ECONOKIC DEPEMOENCY RATIO                 1.2          1.3         1.4              1.2         1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBL'TION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   36.8/i            ..         ..                ..       15.2          20.8
HIClEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  62.57T            ..         ..                ..        48.2         52.1
WI-EST 20 FERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.2/i           ..         ..               ..         6.3           3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.47/            ..         ..                ..        16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTI!LATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..            187.6       241.3        270.0
RIURAL                                 ..           ..       72.0             96.8       136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      151.0            138.4       179.7        282.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..             71.0       103.7        248.9
ESTINATED POPULATION 3ELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UR8AN                                   .           ..         ..             34.5        24.8         20.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..             48.7        37.5         35.3
Noc available
Noc applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusced group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated coumcry in each group.  Coverage of countries among che
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless ocherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for eost Recent Estimate. becween 1974 and 1977.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income  (S281-550 per capita, 1976);   /e  Intermediate Middle
Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /f  1972;   a   1964;   /h  African population only;   /i  Popula-
tion;   /j   1978.
Nost Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 21 -
Hots:  Ao~sh te data. se dreas from sources generally judged the Met authoritative sa relIable, it should also he cvotd that tbsy aw st be misnt-f
UM LI .6 rale becees  of the lwac  of etend.rdised dafiniticame end Concepts usad by ditffemet countries in collecting the daLta. The date werg  sonnetheines,
useful to deecribe ordens of mwwltude, tilg.1ate tram", and Charaeterize certain mmjor differences between contrie.
The SMt          M     M5frechIieao   r  ppltltwihtdgtic ems, enduing0 the extra   alues of the iudIcator sod the Mat popal-etd
Counutry i  ahgrou.  ha to lack of data, greap aveegme of afll Indicatocs for capital surplus. Oil dUporters end of indicator  of Aceoss to Water and  xtcreta
fliaposal, Houing, Zwoo Diatrihution and 5oerty for other coastry groupe are pcpeastion-wei*t5d gebotrio amans without ealusLm of the cutrate values and
the inst populated coutry.  Sinc  thCoesse ofusntrias inn  th   niao depeds on availability ofdt  n   snt uniform. cautio  mtbe exercised
torltngaeaeso   n  Indicator to aohr    hs  average  ar                   Aahs  sfulL as approcimmations of 'exoecte        lvale  when compaisate  aue-f  n
iWMHllcato rat ati   anc   teCountry ad reforence groups.
lAW  ARAA (thousend sq. An.)                                                             cccs. to h-oret  Dispsa   pecn   fppuaia      oa.ubn.F ad roaI 
____=t    Total eurfacs area coeprising lad  wareaend inlan  waters.                     _ARFher o_f peo*ple (ttl   rs  adrrl   ere   yecet   ipc a
Agricultural - tast recent esatimate of agricuItural area. used teambrerily             percentage. of their reepecti-e population   - ortet  disposal emy include
or permaenetly for Crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                  the Collection end diepseol, citb or -uitbco- -~astammnt, of buans excreta
lie fallow.                                                                           ad waste-wter by water-borne cytsoms or the use of pit privise aond similar
0    PITA         GY- lP pe  capita. ectiattec at Current market prices,            lastallationa..          -Ppfi dvddb   udro   rciigpwilA
caclted py cem  covrion  stood as World BenA Atlas (1975-77 bnasic);                                rom  mei    School at universIty level.
1960, 19,70, and 1977 data.-                                                          Ponaaton ser Thesi  Person - Popsiation divided by nmabor of precticing Sale
C     PEJPf~FR CAPrTA - bAsnal ..onsvtio  of caemarejal  negy               man  rem"s grada"te va,sre, practical suree., *ed assisanst oarces.
" Wyclad l        too ass,natural gas end bydo-, molteru and go-2L Poaaion ~rklinenita  Red    total. ora.ed ral-IPopulation (total, ortac,
theial electritciy  Ikiursof coal equivlent per Capita; 19*,                            anmca)dvddh  hI  epcienar ohspital beds acailable in
1970, sad 1976 data,                                                                    public man  private generoa end specilel-od hoetpital sod rehahilitation centers..
Hlospital1s are etstalishmmnta persengtly staffed by at least cone phy.clis.
POKWI2!Ii AIFD VITAL STATISTICS                                                           Istabliehmmenta providing princIpallj, custodial Care are nMt Included. Rural
Tetal Population. E1d-Tear MLeimos) - Am of July 1; 1960, 1970, end                    hospitals, however, include health, and  edical. centers not permmanently staf fed
1977 dLata-                                                                           by a plWsician (baut by a aedical assistant, inses, aidwife, etc.) which offer
9rbng,,frlyt ion (perceat of total) - Ratio of urhan to total population;               In-patient scacordation end provide a lailed. rAnge of 0mical facilities.
differthWdfifTitioos o_Qf urhe  areas -my affect comyarebility of data.                                 It1o  - Total masher of adeissions to or diecharges frow
ame countries; 1960, 1970, end i973 data-                                          9ftijl7talA dvde         the. aster of beds.
PopulCuronent population projections are bass on                                 1W8oG
1975t.iiAN96iit  od  y age sod sea ad their mostality and fertility             Avers  Stue of Hosbl   pesn ousushod)-toalobs  anIua 
rates  Projection pareater  for smortality rates comprise of thre                  A lnasehold consist. ofagoporniiuaswosaelvn   quarer  and
levels asosa  lire expectancy at birth inereseLfg with country' c                  thkeir main eceLI - A hoarder or lodger may or my not be included in the
per capi ta incomes leve, end faean.l life expectancy  tsteilising at              household for statistical purposee.
77.5 yeas.  The paraeaters for fertility rate also have three levels             Average numsber of personse .roo  - total. orbs. sad rurl - Average nuashr
ascoelag decline In fertility, accordIng to income level ad past                    of personas per moe i  ci  rben,sd ralocpied covectional  deellingo,
alily oleanoing p'erf res. REoS  country is then asigned on  of thee.              reecivly,  Swellings emclude non-peraet struturee and unoccupied. parts.
nine coedinatices of eortality ad fertility trends for projection                Accesa to Klectricity (veroent_ofi,dwelns-toal,d,  l     orbs  and rura  - Coo-
purposes.                                                      ventiocal dellings with electricty  in living quartersas percentage of
itoicaryoooaltin -Ona  tationary popslation there is so growth                total, urhen, end rura  dwellings repectively.
sib_ thsbirh rte issqual to the death rate, ad also the age
stouctu.ressmios contant. Thi  Is  bachevd only after fertility, rate.        EDUCIATION
dcv Line to the repl-asen-at lsvel of unit set reproduction rate, when           AdutdPrlmtRio
each genertion of -soes replaces itself sosctly.  Tbe stationary pp.P.-            PreIcol- oa.oesd resale - Grnse total, cin nod f-sle enrol-
Jation vice  -a  estnated .. the basls of the projected charecterlotice              cet of, all eges at the primary Level as p-erctages of respective prlosry
ofthe population in the year 2000, ad the rate of decline of fertility              ochool-age populations; omrally includes children aged 6-11 yewso tot
onto to replac""et leve.                                                              adjusted for different lengths of prismary, education; for coutri-s  -th
Year otati-or  population is reahed - The year stem  stat...ry ppoplation              unvra ducation enrollmnot osy oxcsd 100 pmeret  0c   oepupils
siebnb en  eced                                                               are hew  or above the officiai school age.
Pouaio   eoty                                                                   Scoondau  cooo  - total. mIs end Yecals - Coeoted as above  -ena-y
per oc. on  -Md-pear population p.r square- kilomoert  100 hectares) of                 euainrquircs ot leas t Your years of approved prisary instruction;
total araprovide.gcagesr. voctional, or Ztscher.training intru-ctionsfor pupilo
per sq. ice. ei-oItaral tad - Coemputed as shov  for egricultural land                  usuall1y of 12 to 17 years of a; correspondence couross ar  gosrally
only                                                                                  excluded .
Poualatbo" Age Strucur   prcnt   Children  0-l4 years), corking-age                    Vocational enoletorctof secodary) - Pocation..l int:t_ttic.. inclune
.1-t   ear)  s_d rtire   A5 pers sod over) an percentagee of did-year               technical, industria   ortoher progrmamm hbh operate LAdependently or as
Population; i96i, 1970, and 1977 da.ta.                                                 department. of secodary institutions.
Population IrrAOt   ecn) - tota  - Annal. xrwth rates of total mid-                     psailOsa1  e  ratio - primar. and sleondr    I ota  studsnts enrolld io
year popultosfo   506,    07,and 1.970-77.                                              peer   dscnayleesdvddb   uhrstof teahers i- tie corre-
Povula.tion Ir-th Pave  percent)     ra   Annual growth rates of urha                      poding level.
populatIons for 195040O, 190Q0~-70.ad19-70-75.                                        Adult literacy rt nret;-Literte  adults  nble to reed end urite,)v
Crud  Bith hte  per houand)- Anua live births per thousad of aid-               aPercentage ofttlautpopulation aged 15 years sodovr
Year popuaion.     15,  -9a,ed 1977 data.
Crue eat  Pte   erthtsad)- Annual deaths Per thousad of sid-ysar           CONSISFiiPfIC
population: 1950,  970, and i9)7 data.                                              Pasne   usprthuaocplto)                      Masoe   e    oprlse ectorcr
I.rons peprodotion Pate - Averge 'nosie  of daughters a woman sill hear                 seatIng les  than eight PerM os;ecludes sbulencen, beeves and nolitary
:0 O r ocea  rproductivop psed If ohe -npernooce  presen.t age-                   oqils
cpCcfertily rates sal  ftve-yer averages ending In 1900,                     Radi  o     Pcivers SPcc thoos P0 cpltion) - All typse of recever  f- radio
1?70, end 1975.                                                                       _ra sst   enrlpbi   e  thusn  o   opltion;  oludes un-licensd
FeaLLI 'Planning - Acceptors. Annul  _thousands) - annual nuaher of                    reciver  in countries end -n pear. chken regiot-atio of radio con  oo:
--oPtor -of birth-votoo1 d-otoos under aupices of national fually                     effect; data fc recen.t year  say oct c coeparble since moot c-nrte
plaeo.g pr"gren.                                                                      aholished lIcensing.
PselyPlsnlg - Coor  [percent of earnd sce)   P-Pretags of etche.d                 tV Oceivers  pe  tousan   opltion) - TV receive"rs for brodac.t to  en~ra.L
oeio   hl-hearing age  15-lsyas   o   s  birth-control devices                pulcprthuadppuain xludes unlicenedIVreivs:outic
to all aried soc  io ssa  age group,                                                  and In yaste ohen registration of TV -t. -a  in effect.
duotion                                      newsPaper Circulation  ~~~~ ~~~~Pertosn   oj..tin  - Show  tie averge circultion
FOOD AM N=ITION  ~~~~ofdalyiserLoiteret                                                                      d'      as   peroical publicatios
1..nox                    per Capita '1-909 -=1-10   -tndex of per capita               devted prisarily to recordIng general news.  It I  considered to be 'daily
snnu.i produIction of aLLI fsod coniis rductIon excldes seed and                      if it appears at least Yo~ur tinsa coc.k.
fed  od: one calenda  ye..ar bss    rite   cvrpio od                            Cinsesa Annual Attendanc  Per Captat e  Pear - based on the ounnr of tickeos
e.g.ougaoac  nsted ofsuga) obich are edIble ad contain nutrients            snld during the yer  niuigvdnain  to dr4v--  in class and nuhile
-..cffee end tea are exclded).  Aggregate production of each counfry              units.-
:0 based on national sowesge Produce  price weights
Pe optnspply of calories  pecn   f r-qenets)   Computed ftoe                LABOR fORCE
enryouvolt of set food spplie  availabl  in coutr  per capita                0f.o   oo    huao)-Oo ial   ciepros   nldn   re
pe   ay    vilaIble oupplies3 cosprios domestoc production, Isports Wes         fre   n   nyoed. but excluding bou-o-e, students, coo. -Dfinition
exot,ed  hsgea in stock   Set supplies exclde s-leal feed, sced.,              in various countries  wte not co-pa-aie.
tustithes use  in fod procesing, and losses in dlstribution. Require-            !:i.2IE~ - f"ae  Labor force as percentage of total labor foro..
answere esinted by FAO based on physiological needs for normal.M iut    7pe eccet) - .abor force in farming, foretry, bunting end
activity end health considering  -nsioanvtal tepereture, body seIghts,              fihn   spercentage of total Labor frore.
age sad sa  distributions of population, aCd allowing 10 percnt, for              indsry  percent) - Lah- forc  -n minnog, constrution, sanufmctuog sod
sat   t house hold leve.                                                        elctrcty, waier sond gas as prootags of toctal Labor forus.
Per osita oppip  f oroein  ues Se  day) - protein Content of per            Patcpto    ae(soc)-ttl   aeed feaLle - Participation or
oaptanetsuplyoffod pr  ay.le  spply of fond in definad as                aciiy  ae  ar  oP:        tde5oal   ae   n  fml  ao  fre-pr
above. Rcqulrenents for al cunriaeastablinshd by 155  provide fcr a                 -etagas of total, mas sod feenlo population of all ages repectively;
msclImua alveance of 60 grass of total protein per day and 20 gaea  of              1960, i970, end 1975 data.  These are 1LO s participation ratmes refeting
enlae.l ad pulos  protein, of cOicn 10 gram  should he  -ou.  protein.              aecstructure of the population, and long tInm trend.  A fe  estimates
These standard, sre loser than those of 75 green, of total protein ad               are fro  national sourCn..
25 gr_  of _nl_l protein as an averge for the, -rId, proposed by PAOD             pWmie:               Ratio -  Ratio of Popualatino  under 15 And 6n end ove  to
in the third World food S-rry.                                                   'ttl.laoghWNrPe in age group of 15_04 femars
per capita- nreen     syfroe animal ad pulse - protein supply of fond
derlved C-nn  nmasadpussigrerrdy
Chil d ,ae   -)lraiyRt  losi thousjir- Anal deths par thovasso                         ennaecrlaeic                   ohi   ahd         .n,-Received by- riobest
In age group 1-b years, to children in this age group; for mat dev_i-                 5 pecet, rinhst 20 percent, poorest  0prcent, and poorest -0 percent
oping countries data derived from life tables,                                        of households
Zfe fxnectsncy at  lnia yers  - Average  somehe  of Years of life                     Estiate   Absolut-e Poet   oe   ee    5   e   caita  - orb  ann rural 
reaining at birh   90  17,ad197   aa                                                  AsltYovryIc    level o  tha  born  ee   eo   hc                      li
Infant Wortalty Rave (per thosad) -Annual deaths of iafanta under one                   sutritlonal.1y adequate diet plus essential no-food cequ,Iraents io  -ot
fear of age per th ousa ndLive births,                                                affordable.
A..es  to Safe   arternretov         ouain    total obs. an ual-                       stimated Relative Poerty Inalvl   $crcaia                     rban sodrua-
Ruhr of pepl   toa,ob,ndralsilo resnbeacstc.rlrltv    oeryIc    es  sestido   vrg  per capita
safe enter supply  inludes treated surfan  waters or untrsated hut                    personal icon  of the coutry. Urban level is derived. from the rual leve
un-oteinsatd water suh us that from, protected b-reoles, springo,                     with edjusummet for higher cot of living in a-Osr aras.
ad sanitary sells) as Percentages cv' their respeotive ppoalat-on. in               EaOmte  =suaion  sBow Absolute Po.r orUlve                     ~rstj - urba  and
en uron area a puOdin fountain or  tcelpest insaetd not core than 20-0eren  of population  u rban an.ua)  h   r                                        aslte por'
waterse from, a houas my he consIdered as Oss sithi rpesonahis access
of than homse. In rural arease reasonable annads wold i.14 thamt the
houewift e op   ners of the househld 4A    hae- to apea  a diayp-opr-                                                       Ecomomi. ad Social Data liricion
tiOcats pert of ths day In fetching the  SWly  s soagr niede.                                                          Reonomio Analysis ad ProJections  epartmeet



[5 [5[IIR4i4$Z1                                                 '0               02                                            0
02 '0  02,-2221020220200202'0  0202002000'        flO   (00-0020           020200000.  02.0        0.00000'0 0222 20   0000'0. 20
Ow                                   20           220                         *
O  0'2'00 220 002220          '0'00o002o   00'0.  (0200..-.'0 j 020  20  20'002 0-2-20  '0 2020.200    02000202 0200220202O2-202'00
0000. '00.0.2'2022. 0                  0.00  0.202  022000  <02        02.00000         0002022  20 '0220000000000000   -
002000-0.022.   .'   22020200.0  20   2002 00   -  0'.-0..2          02002202..0022020202.<  '0
S22ozoo00.2o   0        000.-It -'200 202020  022"'0  000020.   20 0  <'2022    00  20 '0<022-0   0    0.0002222.000   22
02-0      0  (00.22      0000-20000.10.20 r-             0.00.22.10  0  "(0000   20.0.022022222220  000   0'
-  (00022220.0.0.020.0.0.    02000-,20     022  00 200.,00   20221020        0 0222200222220    '-2 0.000000220200  2-  0(0
'22 OOj(00       0  <o       mOo  22020'0               0022  o.22o   20 202-0o0        02   00.-n.  20 22220    0.-2'022(022  0   002
0  '0000o0o                                         0                 '02202           hooo   0.00* 0002. '
0-2t<o'0. '-''0<     02'2 '000220  '0  02 222000.-2..         00   00       22020    000   32-222  0
<Iooo000   0                000020020             220022222022                     -  <0  00-       022(022  <    222O       -
0.0.22002  0S0022   o'2                       0200  0                        .00000.00   2222.         20
0222.22-00  0.-oO   0         -0-.c                   0                    0-'2',0          020       02
  ,r'             10020(0      0          0-                                             '0
2.0-0.oo                   0010  ofoo   20                             00        0                    02222
2-222    '0    .0   n'                     '00        0
000.   <<0   2222.22       220     '0  200     '0           120
00.0'2.(0OOOOo.0         (00      0  (00                             '0        0                    0'
02.0022022222202200         22     <  <22
00  2'- (000000<           02      0
00'000    022020           00
022200     00(0(00                                                 '0  0
022. 0020022200          0.-'        2c'0' to    2 022.22'0.0.'0   0- '0
0' 0  '0       00'"000"0020 0' 2.0        0(00000.0   0  -.    20              20   0       20         22.2
g     o                     '222 22(00222222  2222' '2''  2-2.  2  '20 ''02020(02020  '0(02000     000  20'02..2022'00 (0
02o00      02200         0  020102002200.22220  '20  0..0000.0.-.o0  200'0200202'0    '2(02.2200      000(0020 '0000020'00            0
0200  02220' 000'                                                 -  0
'00 '00202-220.20    0 2022212020.0100100 102    002 '020-  0   (0                                               02    010
(022020' 2(000. 20(00'   .  ''0-122..  2'.    2002000(02020  0  '000000                00.000        2000  .".2".00'00'20(0 020
22222' 020(0     -  OAI.-'I'0OIO 022022' 20                    0000000          '000 0'-2    000200000 0000 0*20
00   o20                            2                          -  '0
0(00     22  o                        200  20
(0.0   00    0  '0                    I.'          2000.0.2020   ' 0002000             0002020      (000  2-0002020(0
022   22 '0                   202.20. 2.2   00000000   20  0202000o0           '0202000      00020000020200(0000              0
0                                      0         '0                                                                  (0'
200  2020'                  00                                                               I
201000 2.00                             20        20   0       0           02      0  0        200
2'   200                       ' 20'0,"'2000    00000        0000.200.000 200'(0020           00
0. '0     :  2IOO20202020  I                        20
22  '020(0'20(0020  lo
I      0200(0002001(00                                                                  I
2.12   2                   0         I  0'0'02-0.0        20   0      0           02          10      120
*iiI'   0                           9". .o."2020O     020200.0      '0000.0.000o00'(00-  20
0  00(02(020 I                             20 0(0200000.       '2200'00     '-'0(020(00 '000.020002020      20
'0 0
0.   0    '0  220(0 202    2000.00.   2(0 0.
00I0I(00.I00I00. 202      000020200'0  20              0.      20   0      '0          02       020
10                 .      ' 0'2002'0'0'0   00'00        000002-020200220
V
0  0 00..'I00I(00100  20'    (000202002(0'0  200200.00200      00000        2000'0 2000020000' 0010
.00.0.0'  '020    20   0      '0          02    200  0        220
2HK' Ii                                                                                          I
00(0                            00000 <''0       020'0'00      000.20.- (000'0200020200        20
201.02010                       0                                                              0.
200200  2020                     '0200200.00        0.   0      20          020.202000           20    0'
112o2;o200.    0                                                                              '02120
00000(020        000020       020000.2002000020
'2''  2(022                    '(0020000         000020        00000.0200002020  20            0
5                                                                                       02    20
20-20   '0(0                                                                                 I-
0.   02001  0200  .022                       02022002000        20   0      0           02    20            20
I                         200(00000        0200020       0020202020(020000020220         20
20  200J02200'10010'0  0                     .200.2000.0.      0020200'     00.2000200000.
w
20  0 0L1200210 0400                                                                                          0    02
'0(0                                                                 0002000            20   0      0           02    0.00           20
00                                    22020 2022                       0002000.        0200(00      020'0'000000202020'0210          0      20
00                     0. 0.0' 2002 0200' 2.02                       0(000020.0        0200-0       '02020000.(0(0'000''000'I0      220     0
0.0                    0' 0 2<2(0I0'0I0'0100 1202                                                                                          '0
00.                     0  0 0220100100100 2 '0
00                                    2200. 2
00.                     0            201(002(00                      '0002000           0.   0      0'          0'    0.0  0        120
2020                       0.oj  000
'(0                                  'I' - 2020                       .02020(000       00.20020     020200002000000210              I    '-1
0200   0.                       202000020(0      020000        00000020000.200 '0(020          0      (0
00(0  .0                        0
22-2                   .0            (000  (0                        000000             0.   0      20          02   200.020         200   2<
00220   20                            0200(000        .00.0200.     00000020-200200200.            120    -2
.0.0                       ::pq.-                                                                                          I
0022'0                                   0.000200(0       0200020       (0000200020(0200000.0          220(0
000000            20   0      0           02  020 olO         2200
- 00020020       000200       000000020.000.20220             120?
0.00.200200      000(00       00'(000200(00002020020           02
021021221200  20J                        '00.  20.0.                   00200.-o20202020020(00I0
00-                                        '0                         0000   00         20 0.0      0.          02202020020          '0
'00                                                                   20(0000200       00000                                         0
0o02000        00000         000  2000220  00.00  10
0                                                                     22000(02020      0202000       020202200'02020002-. 212.2
0                                                         '020                          '0
202002000      020000        2000  0(000  2002020  0
2002000.000        2 00.0222(020    0022202.2    200.022 0(02002202020
'00020202022020(0 20
00000220020
0200'0020000 '0
0.002200.0200  222  200.02                         200.20
000022(00  02   0002020(0         200000        000.  0o'020  0000220
00 0 '0 0                       '''''.'I'
200000           '20(0202000      00000         2020022000(0' (00002,0
010.10 0200.2020 2<    ."000         0
012020 0220020 0 20.   (00  0.
20I02 020 0200 1.00-
2   '00
-         2002020  0.2              22                    0200.00        000000200'0'000020             20
0I0I00I002200' 22<  22fl 0.0     20  0                                                                  0
2   20020000-  0' 0. 22                         2000200       2202000000200200000             0
012010010022.'0 22022 0200000.2000 22
0.120020000.20                                            0.0.000                 '02020020020          200    0
20                                        2000200.        2"'2.'020002000(00.20200      12022    -
0*02000200(0   20                   '0                    20202000      22020020020000000020           10(0
202(0  02    20    20    '1
20        0002       2               (0
20 oloo'02000020 0
2                                                                     0.  220       0
5'  2<   0202020002000  0                     0.00020                 0.202 000(0210        120
I                      ,                   20(002020      202000020o'0202020000          1(00.
00202022000 0.I 020
2000(0       2020     0(020000210           20.
202020020      020202220202000000020         120
00202020      22002020200200002000I0         10
- U -



- 23 -
SENEGAL:  BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE                                             ANNEX  I
(millions of enrrant U. S. dollars)
Actuals                                Estisatea                                   Proiectione
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976             1977    1978    1979           1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
A.  SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1.  Eoports, incl. NFS                                    333      355      602      693      698          869      735      900           948   1,296   1,523   1,697   1,911   2,177
2.  Imports, Locl. NPS                                   -373    -483    -691    -793    -852             -989  -1,108  -1,229         -1,390  -1,558  -1,748  -1,958  -2,195   2,462
3.  Resoorce balance                                      -40    -128       -89    -100    -154           -120     -373     _329          -442    -262    -225    -261    -284    -285
4.  Fartor oevices net                                    -23      -29      -48      -55       -8           -37     -29      -62           -72    -106    -107    -114    -124    -139
Net invest-ent incor^                           -12      -17      -26      -37      -23           -36     -34      -49           -50      -70      -74      -84      -94    -108
Interest public de                               -5       -7      -14      -19      -18          -21      -29      -44           -49     -49      -48       -48      -48      -49
Other ittereot                                    3        3        2       -3       -1            -4      -4      -12           -19      -38      -41      -44      -49     -56
Workero' remittmnceo                            -20      -18      -20       -6       17            18       27       30           31       34       38       42       46       50
Other                                            11       10       1O       10       12             6       11       13           15       16       18       20       21       24
5.  Corrent tranofers (not)                                50       56       64       67       66            65       95       63           76       79       87       90       97      104
6.  Current account balance                               -13    -101       -73      -88      -96           -92    -307     -328          -438    -289    -245    -285    -311    -320
7.  Private capital (ant)                                   2      -15       -5       12       16           42        56      69            74       88      100      113      133      151
8.  Capital grant,                                          8       19       19       22       23           24        29       26           24       32       32       41       41       41
9.  Public M + LT loano (net)                              11       78       60       56       60           56      135       134          116       93      115      104       98      107
Disbur-eoents                                    19      100       80       76       84           92      204      212           223      198      214      205      205      220
Repavyents                                       -8      -22      -20      -20      -24          -36      -69      -78          -107     -105      -99    -101    -107       -113
10.  Short-ten   capital (net) /1                          -12        3       23       10       -           -24        -9      -10           -8       -        -        -        -        -
11.  Capital n.e.i. /2                                       7      -28      -31      -22      -13          -14         3/13   20/14         21/15   72/16  -14        -14      -14      -14
12.  Net fin-ncing oeed                                     -        -        -        -        -             -        -                    107/19   99/20   67         76       83       60
13.  Increase ia reserves (+)                                3       44        7       10      -1             8      -93      -90          -104       95       55       35       30       25
14.  Level of net foreign asseta (and of the year)    23            -15      -25      -48      -45          -53    -159    -236            -348    -268    -228    -208    -193    -183
B.  LOAN COMMITMENTS                                            50      181       70      135     127           215      356      125          360      303      330      355      406      431
1.  IBD                                                   16        1        3        7       26           2012    11         7             8       25       60       30       40       40
2.  IDA                                                    11       24       -        25       11           -        26       25            37       38       25       26       20       20
3.  OPECPFnds                                              -        -        -         4                     3         4      -             -        -        -        -        -        -
4.  Other international inatitotiona                        1        2       10        6       12            21       27/17   46/18         14       21       19       23       25       26
5.  Prance                                                  7        5       16       13       27           28        27       18           33       36       40       44       48       53
6.  Gernaoy                                                 -        -       17        3        5             4        2       -            15       16       17       19       19       22
7.  Canada                                                  4        3       -         8        4             5       -        -             2        2        2        2        2        2
0.  OPEC coontries                                          -        2        9       -         4            -        38/11    6             8        9       10       11       13       14
9.  Other bilateral                                         3/4    50/'i      4/6    21(       -             1218    20/9    15/10          20       20       23       25       27       30
10.  OMVS (Diacs don)                                       -        -        -        -        -             -        -        -           113/12   -         -        -        -        -
11.  Suppliers                                               2       14        3        1       10            22       10        3           10       15       20       30       30       30
12.  Financial institotions and private banko                6       80        8       47       28           100     190         6           -        -        -        -        -        -
13.  Grass financing need                                                                                                                   108      121      114      145      182      194
C.  LOAN TERMS
1.  Intereot (%)                                          4.1      5.8      4.7      4.8      6.1          7.6      6.9      3.9           5.3      6.5      6.7      6.9      7.2      7.2
2.  Grare (yearn)                                         6.3      6.1      6.3      6.5      5.6          3.6      3.7      6.4           5.5      4.3      4.2      3.4      3.6      3.6
3.  Maturity (years)                                     30.2    19.8    27.5    23.4    20.1             12.7    13.7    23.7            23.2    20.2    18.9    17.8    16.5    16.5
4.  Grant elenent (7)                                    47.0    29.0    39.0    40.0    28.2             13.6    18.9    43.9            34.4    24.5    21.6    20.7    18.2    18.3
5.  Debt service ratio (.)                                3.7      7.7      5.4      5.3      5.5          6.4    12.8    13.2            16.1    14.1    13.6    14.0    14.5    15.0
6.  Debt  revice ratio perreotage tincludiog
IMF Cundo)                                                                            5.6          6.5    14.2    15.1           17.4    15.5    15.3    15.7    15.4    15.9
.|   Includeo errors aod onissinon.
/2  loclodno IMF trust fond and SDR allocations, STABEX loans and differencea between public capital inflow as recorded by the Central Bank and by the IBRD debt report.
/3  Includeo US $14 =illion  Third Window foods.
4  Dlen=ark.
a5  People's Republic of China to finance imports of Chinese surpluses ($10.4 million disbursed so far).
/6  $4 million fran U. S. A.
/5  Includes US 517.4 million conmitment from Spain and $3.5 million from Deomark.
a8  US AID.
a2 Opais.
/10 $12.0 nillion fram Japan and $2 millioa from the United Kingdom.
Ill $37 million from Saodi Arabia and $1 million from Abu Dhabi.
/12  An estimated share of 75E in the $150 million cost of the Dia-a dam:  France $52 million, Saudi Arabia $37 million, Kuwait $35 million and African Development Bank
$26 million.
/13 Includes STABEX $23.5 million.
/14  Includes STABEX $63.5 million.
L15  Inclodes $13 million SDR allocation and STABEX $22.7 million (estimated).
/16 Includes STAbEX $86.9 million (estimated).
/17  Inclodeo  $17.6 million IMP Troot Fund.
/15  Includes $13.4 million IMF Trust FPnd, $19.6 nillion African Develop-mt Bank and $12.8 million European Investment Bank.
/19  The total financing need amoonts to $234 million in 1980 including $104 million  fall in reo.rv.a, $22.7 million STABEX.
/20  The total financing need amonts to $91 million in 1901 including  $86.9 nillion STABEX, but  n improvement in reserves of $95 million.
Pebroary 1980.



Annex I
Page 6
SENEGAL - DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
(millions of current US Dollars)
Actuals                                 Estimates                                         Projections
1972     1973     1974    1975      1976          1977     1978       1979         1980       1981       1982      1983      1984       1985
A.  MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM
DEBT (Disbursed onlv)
1.  Total Public Debt Outstanding                      138.6   203.2   248.3   295.1   350.4             417.1   581.7       716.2          932.8   1125.4   1308.0   1488.6   1670.9   1838.6
2.  Including undisbursed                              219.2   367.2   420.4   522.8   616.6             814.5  1156.0   1203.2            1177.0   1457.4   1736.6   2013.6   2301.6   2564.3
3.  Public Debt Service                                 13.4    29.4    33.4    39.3    42.3              56.5      98.1    122.0           156.3    186.3       212.4    243.2       285.2     336.6
a.  Interest:                                        4.9      7.2     13.8    18.4    18.1            20.6     29.2       44.1           49.3      59.4       67.6      73.4       80.7      89.7
1.  on projected aid                              -        -         -        -        -             -        -         -              -      49.2       48.0      47.6       48.0      49.4
2.  on additional capital needs                   -         -        -        -        -             -        -          -              -      10.2      19.6      25.8       32.7      40.3
b.  Amortization:                                   8.5    22.2       19.6    20.9    24.2            35.9    68.9        77.9         107.0    126.9    144.8    169.9          204.5    247.0
1.  on projected aid                              -        -         -        -        -             -        -         -              -    105.4        99.1    101.5    107.1        113.3
2.  on additional capital needs                   -        -         -        -        -             -        -          -              -      21.5      45.7      68.4       97.4    133.7
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service
a.  Other Interest                                                                       1.1           1.8      3.4        3.8           3.6        8.6        7.2       5.9       5.7        4,9
b.  Amortization                                                                         -             -        7.7      15.1             9.5       9.5      18.5       25.1      12.7       15.0
5.  Total Debt Service                                                                      43.4          58.3   109.2    14o.9             169.4    204.4    238.1    274.2    303.6    356.5
6.  Net Investment Income                               12.0    17.0    26.0    37.0    23.0               35.8    33.6       48.9           50.2       70.0      74.0       84.0      94.2     108.7
7.  Total payment on foreign capital                    25.4    46.4    59.4    76.3    65.3              92.3   131.7    170.9             206.5     256.3      286.4    327.2       379.4    445.3
B.  DEBT BURDEN
1.  Public Debt Service Ratio                            3.7      7.7      5.4       5.3      5.5          6.4    12.8        13.2           16.1       14.1      13.6       14.0      14.5      15.0
2.  Payment on Foreign Capital Ratio                     7.2    12.3        9.5    10.4       8.5          10.4    17.1       18.4           21.2       19.4      18.4       18.8      19.3      19.9
3.  Public Debt Service/GDP                              1.2      2.4      2.4       2.1      2.2           2.9      4.9       4.9            5.9        6.0       6.0       6.1        6.3       6 6
4.  Public Debt Service/Govt. Revenue/l                  2.1      3.3      4.5       5.2    10.0           10.0    14.8       16.9           16.3       17.8       -          -         -        19.6
C.  TERMS
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                      3.5      3.5      5.6      6.2       5.2          4.9       5.0       6.2            5.3        5.3       5.2       4.9        4.8       4.9
2.  Public Debt Service/Total DOD                        9.7    14.5    13.6    13.3    12.1               13.5    16.8       17.0           16.8       16.6      16.2      16.3       17.1      18.3
D.  DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M & LT DEBTL2.
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl.services)   5.1    20.7/3  10.4               8.5       9.0          8.8      17.4      16.1           22.2      18.9       17.2      16.4       16.1      15.2
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. services)                2.6    14.6       7.8       6.3      6.5          5.4      11.5      10.1            7.8        5.5       6.1       4.9        4.1       4.0
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                     0.58     0.78     0.75      0.74    0.71          0.61      0.66      0.63           0.52       0.47      0.54      0.51       0.48      0.49
E.  EXPOSURE
1.  IBERD Disb./Total Gross Disbursements                1.9      0.7      1.5       9.3      5.6         14.1       3.2       5.0            3.7       4.5        5.8       7.0        7.5       7.9
2.  Bank Group Disb./Total Gross Disbursements   23.7             3.9    20.9    24.9    19.9             22.6       7.6      13.2            8.0        9.8      12.6      14.2       13.9      13.8
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                   1.7      1.4      1.3       3.4      4.2          6.5       5.5       5.8            5.6        5.8       6.3       7.0        7.7       8.6
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                            13.1    13.3    14.2    18.1    19.9              21.6      17.9      18.3           16.6      16.4       17.1      18.1       19.1      20.2
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                 3.0      1.8      1.9       1.9      2.9          3.6       4.2       3.2            3.1       3.3        3.3       4.0        4.2       4.1
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service           3.8      2.1      2.5       2.6      3.7           4.6      4.8       3.8            3.7       4.0        4.1       4.8        4.9       4.9
F.  EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed only)                                               Outstanding Dec. 31, 1979                             Outstanding December 1985
Amount              Percent                           Amount              Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                      41.8                  5.8                             156.0                  8.4
2.  IDA                                                                        89.0                12.4                             212.0                 11.5
3.  Other Multilateral                                                         81.0                11.3                             335.5                 18.2
4.  Governments                                                               259.4                36.2                             571.9                 31.1
5.  Suppliers' Credits and Financial Institutions                             245.0                34.2                              69.3                  3.8
6.  Others                                                                        -                    -                            493.9                 26.9
7.  Total Public M & LT Debt                                                  716.2               100.0                           1838.6                 100.0
8.  Total Public M & LT Debt (incl. undisbursed)                            1203.2                168.0                           2564.3                 139.5
G.  TOTAL DEBT SERVICE 1980-85/DOD end-1979                     198.3%
/1  Debt Service to be paid by the Treasury only (fiscal wears).
L2  Public debt only.
/3  High Eurodollar borrowing to finance Government's participation policy.
February 1980.



-25-                          ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1980)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan or                                                          (US$ Million)
Credit Number  Year   Borrower    Purpose                  Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Four Loans* and twelve Credits fully disbursed            13.4    50.1
336-SE     1972   Senegal       Housing Site
and Services                 8.0        2.7
866-SE      1973   OPTS         Telecommunications   6.2                  0.9
366-SE     1973   Senegal       Second Highway                 8.0        0.2
987-SE      1974   SOFISEDIT   Development Finance  3.0                   0.2
530-SE     1975   Senegal       Education                     15.0        5.9
1113-SE     1975   Senegal       Agric. Diversifi-
cation               7.0                 6.2
578-SE     1976   Senegal       Terres Neuves II               2.0        0.1
1221T-SE     1976   Senegal       Feeder Roads           6.6                2.0
1222-SE     1976   Senegal       Third Highway         15.0                4.2
633-SE     1976   Senegal       Livestock                      4.2        2.7
647-SE     1976   Senegal       Second Sedhiou                 6.3        3.7
1332-SE     1976   SOFISEDIT   Second Development
Finance             4.2                 2.5
1405T-SE     1977   Senegal       Port of Dakar          6.0                2.3
1412T-SE      1977   Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism  8.0                  5.7
1413-SE     1977   Senegal       Petite Cote Tourism  5.6                  4.0
764-SE     1978   Senegal       Para-Public Sector
Tech. Asst.                  6.3        3.8
775-SE     1978   Senegal       Irrigation                    20.0       13.0
1518-SE     1978   RCFS          Railways III          11.0      -         7.9
1665-SE     1979   ASECNA        Second Airport         7.0      -         7.0
S-23-SE      1979   Senegal      Water Supply Engr.   -         2.5        2.5
908-SE       1979   Senegal      Education III          -      22.0       21.5
991-SE2/    1980   Senegal       Small Rural
Operations                  11.0      11.0
993-SE2/    1980   Senegal       Fourth Highway                28.0       28.0
1810-SE2/    1980   Senegal       Fourth Highway        10.0               10.0
Total                                    103.0   183.4      148.0
of which has been repaid                 6.4     0.6
Total now outstanding                     96.6   182.8
Amount sold                       3.4
of which has been repaid        2.6
0.8
Total now held by  Bank and IDA 1/        95.8   182.8
Total Undisbursed                         52.9    95.1      148.0
*    A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in
1969 was cancelled on March 25, 1971.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Not yet effective.



- 26 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1980)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Year         Obligor             Type of Business      Loan   Investment   Total
1967   Societe Industrielle    Fertilizer Plant        2.45        1.01      3.46
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972)  BUD Senegal
1973)  S.A.                     Vegetable Export        -          0.87     0.87
1976)
1974   SOFISEDIT                Development
Finance Company                   0.21     0.21
Total Gross Commitments                         2.45        2.09     4.54
Less Cancellations, Terminations                2.45        1.04     3.49
Total Commitments now held by IFC                 0         1.05     1.05
Undisbursed Balance
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 336      Sites and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation started slowly, but is now proceeding satis-
factorily following agreements reached with the Government in October 1978 to
improve performance. The main problem affecting the project has been plot
consolidation and occupancy, but this is now accelerating with the assistance
of a loan scheme by the project agency (OHLM) and the Senegalese national
development bank (BNDS), which is now fully operational. Site development has
also been hindered by the absence of on-site employment opportunities other
than construction-related activities; a recently created unit in OHLM is
currently examining this problem and preparing proposals.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                       ANNEXii
Page 3
Ln. 987   SOFISEDIT Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1974;
Effective November 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
SOFISEDIT was created in March 1974 for the purpose of providing
long-term financing for developing enterprises in industry and tourism. The
first line of credit of US$3 million is now fully committed, and a second
loan (Ln. 1332) is under disbursement. A Project Completion Report is being
prepared.
Ln. 866   Telecommunications Project; US$6.3 million Loan of December 19,
1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project was designed to improve the quality of telecommunica-
tions service in Dakar and in parts of northern Senegal. Completion of
project implementation took about three years longer than originally scheduled
mainly because of delays in procurement, resulting cost overruns, and changes
in top management. The physical works are now completed, and the installation
has been successfully commissioned. The Borrower has made significant efforts
over the past two years to improve its management, as well as its accounting
and financial organization. This, together with the audits and financial
advisors financed under the Parapublic Sector Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 764) is expected to result in substantial improvement of the institution.
Cr. 366   Second Highway Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of April 9, 1973;
Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project consists of pavement strengthening of primary roads,
a four-year maintenance program, and preinvestment studies. All project items
are now satisfactorily completed. The strengthening program however had to
be reduced from 110 km to about 35 km as a result of higher costs than estimated
at appraisal, and high inflation during implementation; the remaining 75 km
were strengthened under the ongoing Third Highway Project (Ln 1222). The
objectives of the maintenance program were not entirely met due to management
problems and insufficient allocation of local funds, and the technical
assistance was extended under the Third Highway Project. Preinvestment
studies were successfully completed and taken into account in planning of
subsequent projects. Only fellowships awarded under the project remain to be
completed.
Cr. 530   Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of February 19,
1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation remains about two years behind schedule
because of earlier delays in design and contract awards. These delays,
together with a 10% decline in the value of the US Dollar, resulted in a cost
overrun of about US$6 million. To help compensate for these increased costs,
the Government requested, and the Association has formally agreed, to reduce
the scope of the project by reducing the number of science centers from 11 to
8, the number of rural youth training centers from 30 to 15, and by deleting
from the project the construction and equipment for the Hotel School and
seeking another source of external financing for this component. The Indus-
trial Training and Upgrading Center has started training courses in all



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4
trades. Construction and equipping of the Merchant Marine School have been
completed. Construction of the science centers and lower secondary schools
was satisfactorily completed at end-1979 (except for one science center in
Saint Louis which was late in starting and will not be ready until early
1981). Procurement of furniture and equipment is progressing on schedule.
The rural youth training component is still experiencing some implementation
difficulties; but modified educational objectives and a revised implementation
schedule have been agreed with the Government, and all the centers are
expected to be in operation by end-1981.
Cr. 549       Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Million Credit and
Ln 1113       US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective October 31, 1975
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The objective of the project is to improve productivity of small
farms through intensification of farmers' agricultural practices, particularly
through increased use of fertilizer and heavy equipment. However, results
over the first three years of the project show that yield increases have been
negligible. Re-orientation efforts were undertaken in agreement with the
Bank, and more emphasis was put on actions which had met favorable results
such as promotion of maize production in the south of the project region, and
integration of agriculture and animal husbandry in the north. Despite these
efforts, and although rainfall has recently been better than average, the
project has still not shown any improvement in additional production or
yields, a result largely of serious management and staffing problems, and an
ineffective extension service. It was therefore decided, in agreement
with the Government and the co-financer CCCE, to re-appraise the project in
an attempt to find new workable solutions to the existing problems. A joint
re-appraisal was carried out in November 1979, and the mission's recommenda-
tions are now being discussed with the Government.
Cr. 578      Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical
Assistance Project; US$2.0 Million Credit of August 6, 1975;
Effective November 14, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project, which is a follow-up to an earlier re-settlement
operation, consists of settling 600 families over a three-year period in the
Eastern Senegal Region, and providing the necessary infrastructure; and
preparing a master plan for agricultural development of the region. The
settlement program has been progressing satisfactorily, although about one
year behind schedule, and should be completed shortly. The master plan
study has been completed, on the basis of which an Agricultural Development
Project for Eastern Senegal is now being prepared.
Ln. 1221-T      Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of improvement of about 1,000 km of feeder
roads and maintenance of about 250 km of existing roads; purchase of high-
way equipment and spare parts, and materials and supplies for project
operations; technical assistance for project implementation and monitoring;
construction of HQ building for the Bureau des Pistes de Production. The



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5
project had been experiencing serious delays caused by insufficient
financial, managerial, and logistic support; but on the recommendation of
and in agreement with the Bank, the Government undertook a series of measures
to accelerate works, and progress has improved considerably. Works executed
so far are of satisfactory technical quality.
Ln. 1222      Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1976:
Effective June 5, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project consists of pavement strengthening of about 200 km of
primary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvest-
ment studies, highway maintenance, and development of the domestic construc-
tion industry. The project is proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule.
The pavement strengthening program has been completed. The road maintenance
program begun under the Second Highway Project, and extended under this
project, is continued under the Fourth Highway Project to strengthen the
maintenance organization and operations. As a result of currency realign-
ments and a civil works execution period that was shorter than planned, an
amount of about US$2.5 million became available under the loan; the Bank has
agreed to the Government's proposals to use these funds to cover the foreign
cost of extending technical assistance for road maintenance, improving work-
shops and training center buildings, and procuring workshop and training
equipment.
Cr. 633      Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit of
June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to assist about 30,000 pastoralists in
Eastern Senegal through improved grazing and herd management practices,
development of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal
health services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program. Parallel
financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund and BADEA. Project implementa-
tion is progressing satisfactorily and on schedule, except for the firebreaks
component which had been held up pending BADEA's agreement about their con-
struction plans; this has recently been obtained, and firebreak construction
is now scheduled to start at the end of the rainy season. Livestock producers
appear to be giving full support to the project.
Cr. 647      Second Sedhiou Project; US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25, 1976;
Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project aims at increasing and diversifying agricultural and
livestock production through improved farming and husbandry practices.
Project implementation has been going reasonably well until the past season
when production was severely affected by the failure of ONCAD (the national
cooperative and marketing agency) to supply fertilizers as needed. In addi-
tion, the project's overall efficiency is hampered by administrative problems
similar to those being encountered in the Sine Saloum Project (Loan 549/Credit
1113) discussed above. The project has achieved its objectives in total area
cultivated and number of participants; however, findings of the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit show that project impact could be reduced, primarily because



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6
participating farms show no significant yield increases (except for rice)
over those farms outside the project, and because the area cultivated per
participant is smaller than expected. Work on the agricultural development
plan for the Casamance Region by the project's Planning Unit is now completed,
and further detailed studies are underway.
Ln. 1332      Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14.
1976; Effective April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
In addition to providing SOFISEDIT with a second line of credit for
industrial and tourism investments, the Loan has helped finance a pilot scheme
of assistance to small-scale Senegalese artisans through SONEPI, the local
industrial promotion agency. As of September 30, 1979, SOFISEDIT had new
approvals (since its inception) of CFAF 3.6 billion, and disbursements had
reached CFAF 2.2 billion. When the latest sub-project applications now under
review are processed, the Loan will be fully committed. SOFISEDIT remains
nevertheless a fragile institution operating in a difficult environment. As a
result, future operations would concentrate on strengthening SOFISEDIT,
streamlining its industrial policies and administration, and improving the
promotion of artisans and of small- and medium-scale enterprises.
Ln. 1405-T   Dakar Fishing Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1977;
Effective March 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Following a slow start caused mainly by time-consuming Government
procedures, project implementation is now satisfactory. Civil works are
expected to be completed by September 1980, only four months later than the
appraisal target. The quality of contractors' workmanship is very good,
and about 900 meters of new quays have already been put into use. All the
technical assistance services and studies are progressing satisfactorily.
Overall performance of the Port Authority remains satisfactory, but there are
continuing problems with receivables, statistics, and recruitment and reten-
tion of qualified staff.
Ln. 1412-T    Petite Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5.6 Million
Ln.-1413       Loans of June 7, 1977; Effective January 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project includes construction of infrastructure and common
facilities for hotel development on the Petite Cote, a major tourist area
where lack of infrastructure has so far limited such development; a program
of works for preservation and development of Goree Island; and technical
assistance and studies to improve planning, promotion, and training in the
hotel sector. Construction of infrastructure works at the Sali project area
continues to proceed satisfactorily. Major works are nearing completion, and
areas designated for hotel construction should be ready for delivery during
1980. The construction contract for the common recreation center and commer-
cial areas has been signed. Bidding documents for the Goree component
were approved by the Bank. In 1979, the Government requested the Bank to
consider reallocation of US$3.5 million of Loan funds originally intended for
construction of a pilot hotel at Sali to provide long-term financing for hotel
construction at the site. Negotiations to that effect were satisfactorily
completed in February 1980, and a proposal to amend the project description
in the Loan documents has been submitted to the Executive Directors for
approval.



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 7
Ln. 1518     Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17, 1978;
Effective August 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance, supply of
material an: equipment, improvement of telecommunications facilities and
track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive power and rolling
stock, strengthening of training programs and facilities, and studies.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily. Contracts for most of the
items for track renewal and maintenance have been signed, and the rest are in
an advanced stage of finalization. Almost half of the total order of locomo-
tive spare parts have been received. The training program is progressing
satisfactorily. Consultants have been selected for the study into optimum
structure and ownership of the Senegal Railway (together with the connecting
Mali Railway), and work has started. Railway traffic in the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1979 was slightly below that of the previous year due basically
to reduced motive power availability stemming from major accidents; this
situation is expected to improve following the delivery of two new high-power
locomotives, as well as critical spare parts for the locomotive rehabilitation
program.
Cr. 764      Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project; US$6.3 Million
Credit of March 17, 1978; Effective June 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of a three-year program to help improve the
efficiency of Government organizations charged with strategic analysis,
operational supervision, and formal financial control over the para-public
sector; and upgrading the auditing, financial management, and accounting
procedures for the sector as a whole and for a number of the most important
public enterprises and mixed companies. Consulting services and technical
assistance are in place, and work is progressing satisfactorily. Overall
guidance and direction by Project Management had not been very effective, but
Government has recently taken some very positive measures to remedy this
situation. Introductory training seminars for Government administrators and
staff in the control organizations have begun, with more intensive and
specialized courses planned to start by mid-1980. The audit component is
progressing well, and there is already some improvement in the follow-up of
audit recommendations.
Cr. 775      Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
March 17, 1978; Effective June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project provides for development of 2,220 ha through full
water control irrigation in the Senegal River Delta, and construction of
related facilities; technical assistance to the project authority SAED;
consulting services for applied research and studies for future development
of the River Valley. Works on the Lampsar perimeter are progressing satis-
factorily, and completion of land development is expected by July 1980.
Work on the Debi perimeter (financed by the Kuwait Fund under a parallel
financing arrangement). is expected to start shortly. The technical assis-
tance team provided by the French FAC to strengthen SAED is now in place.



-32 -                        ANNEX II
Page 8
Construction of project headquarters and training center are expected to start
by early 1980. Consultants for the studies have been selected in agreement
with the Association.
Ln. 1665     Second Aviation Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of April 18, 1979;
Effective November 15, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of strengthening and levelling the main
runway and taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport, and
installation of navigation and visual approach aids at regional airports at
Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring. Design work and bidding procedures for the Dakar
airport have been satisfactorily completed, and work is expected to start
later in 1980. Equipment procurement is underway.
Cr. S-23     Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project;
US$2.5 Million Credit of May 23, 1979; Effective August 10,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides for economic, financial, and technical studies
to prepare a priority investment project for rehabilitation and extension of
water supply systems in eleven secondary centers, including six regional
capitals; and technical assistance to strengthen the planning and operating
entities in the sector. Consultants have been selected in agreement with the
Association.
Cr. 908      Third Education Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of May 23, 1979;
Effective August 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is designed to increase the supply of high- and middle-
level technicians and managers required for the modern agricultural and
industrial sectors; improve and expand secondary technical and vocational
education; and improve the quality of primary education and establish a solid
base for its future expansion, especially in rural areas. Architectural
design work on the major project institutions is progressing satisfactorily,
and tenders for about 70% of the total civil works are expected to be invited
shortly. Preparation of bidding documents for equipment for the technical
and vocational schools is proceeding satisfactorily. The Project Unit
established under earlier education projects has been strengthened and is
operating efficiently. Some delays have occurred in the recruitment of
technical assistance personnel, but key experts are expected to be in place by
mid-1980.
Cr. 991      Small Rural Operations Project; US$11.0 million Credit of April 2,
1980; Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project focusses on channelling funds and technical services
to small groups of rural people who will undertake to provide labor, and some
funds, for the development of several types of directly productive activities,
namely: development of small perimeters for irrigated cultivation of rice,
vegetables, and bananas; beekeeping; and fishing. The project also includes
village water supplies, an allocation for additional directly productive
activities to be identified and prepared during implementation, and provision
for a management structure.



- 33 -                        ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. 993      Fourth Highway Project; US$10.0 Mlillion Loan and US$28.0 million
Ln. 1810     Credit of April 2, 1980; Not yet effective;  Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to increase Government's
capacity to keep the road system in adequate condition, in particular, to
train technicians and selected staff, to improve road work planning and
programming capacity and to rehabilitate and upgrade important road sections.
The project consists of the following components: (a) a three-year training
program for road maintenance staff; (b) a two-and-a-half year technical
assistance program for road maintenance execution; (c) upgrading of the
Government's soils laboratory to strengthen its participation in road mainte-
nance activities; (d) design of proper and systematic pavement maintenance and
strengthening programs; (e) strengthening and rehabilitation of about 200 km
of primary paved roads; and (f) construction of the Louga-Dahra road (about 85
km) to two-lane, paved standards.



- 34 -                         ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events:
(a) First Bank Mission to consider the project: May 1979
(b) Agency which prepared the project; EDS/SENELEC and Bank staff.
(c) Date of departure of appraisal mission: October 1979
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: April 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1980
Section II: Special Prolect Implementation Actions:
None
Section III: Special Conditions:
The Government would:
(i)       with respect to the headquarters and generation facilities expansion
studies, review in consultation with IDA the conclusions and recom-
mendations of the consultants before proceeding with the architec-
tural specifications/detailed engineering, preparation of bidding
documents, and analysis of bids (para. 46);
(ii)      ensure that the final report on the study of the legal framework of
the power sector would be completed and furnished to IDA by December
31, 1980, and that all measures required for the establishment of a
permanent entity by December 31, 1981 would be taken (para. 46);
and
(iii)     ensure avoidance of duplication between the CIDA-financed long-term
master plan of the power sector and the feasibility study, financed
under the project, for expansion of the power-generating facilities
(para. 37).



M     A    U    R    I   T    A       Nw  I   A                                   1dE            Spoorsf   or,,       r i  . 9tk  ri0' Llbyo
/ fi_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tvono&o g Rchd Toll _tI  rtctfC Et A      
- n Nmply. nt treart q  ,o 0,t
I-d 6ank -nd im ofIons 0'Avrn, 
gnroot nor 1110 lOyal *fdt,,o of ~ ~ ~     M,,f
SENEGAL                                                    N                                                                                                                                                                    <
_ . - EXiSTING PAVEp flOADa                                                                                                                       9                                      t         ler   en,)rCot  Gql     
PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRtUCTION                                                                                     sor _I
GR,AVEL ROADS-                                                                                                                                                                          A    1a ,1                       opol       '    C r
-_-___- EARTH RIOAD5S.                                      5         I           s                                       = =                                                                       c b o a n                             Eq G."o  q     t
F--I-IRAILROAD5S
INTERNATIONAL IOUNDARIFS            /   O                                                                                            -           , 'o'          /
TirowreA  p,>Ngourant Dohls ng tr6 f _-~~~~-   I-o//,, <                          01rf Jj                '\
Mbt>mt!^5-Mi/  t   M'tsen   2                -   ~~~~~~~~~~~ Ron tov                   o       .              !   e                      tpS~~0e11bo0y  )
MA    .-v. I=;n
DI                                                                                                      /                                       ,_ I
N,/_                                                        _______ __                                                                                                                                                    __,,__ iuiN
ODAX 0iO5 0  |_  , l.my    q                                                                                                                                                                                                                T,uo N,Or Aary 
A r Z AIVTIC                                                                                                                                                                                                 NE                                               0
_________________________________________________________________________________   _____                                                                                                                            (.K
LW               OCA



