Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22630-SA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.0 MILLION (US$7.92 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
FOR A
MALOTI-DRAKENSBERG TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
August 20, 2001
Environment and Social Development Unit - AFTES
Country Department 1, Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland - AFCO1
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 2001)
Currency Unit = ZAR
ZAR I = US$0.1219
US$1 = ZAR 8.2
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB:         African Development Bank
CAS:          Country Assistance Strategy
DEAT:         Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism
FMC:          Financial Management Committee
GEF:          Global Environment Facility
ICR:          Implementation Completion Report
INTOSAI:    International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions
KZNNCB:    KwaZulu-Natal Nature Conservation Board
LHETP:        Lesotho Highlands Ecotourism Project
LHWP:         Lesotho Highlands Water Project
LMP:          Land Management and Conservation Project
MEGYA:        Ministry of Environment, Gender and Youth Affairs
MOU:          Memorandum of Understanding
NES:          National Environmental Secretariat
PCC:          Project Coordination Committee
PCU:          Project Coordination Unit
RMA:          Range Management Area
RSA:          Republic of South Africa
SADC:         Southern African Development Community
SANParks:    South African National Parks
SC:           Steering Committee
SNP:          Sehlabathebe National Park
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:   Fayez S. Omar
Sector Manager:   Agnes I. Kiss
Task Team Leader:   Jan P. Boj6



SOUTH AFRICA
MALOTI-DRAKENSBERG TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key perfonrnance indicators                                                           3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        16
3. Benefits and target population                                                       16
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        17
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                  21
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     24
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          24
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             25
2. Financial                                                                            25
3. Technical                                                                            26
4. Institutional                                                                        26
5. Environmental                                                                        27
6. Social                                                                               30
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   31



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       32
2. Critical risks                                                                       34
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       34
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              35
2. Other Dated Covenants                                                                35
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            35
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           36
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            37
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      41
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           48
Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis                                                         49
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                 57
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         58
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       64
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     65
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    67
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              69
Annex I 1: Community Consultation and Social Assessments                                   71
Annex 12: Rangeland Management and Biodiversity                                            78
Annex 13: Conservation Planning                                                            87
Annex 14: Nature-based Tourism in Lesotho and South Africa                                 92
Annex 15: Financial Management Action Plan (South Africa)                                  95
MAP(S)
IBRD 30852



SOUTH AFRICA
Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier Conservation and Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTES
Date: August 20, 2001                             Team Leader: Jan P. Bojo
Country Manager/Director: Fayez S. Omar           Sector Manager/Director: Agi Kiss
Project ID: P052368                               Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Theme(s): Environment
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                      Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ [ Loan    [ I Credit    [X] Grant     [ ]Guarantee     []Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): SDR6.0 (US$7.92)
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                             Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       16.80           0.00          16.80
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                     0.00           7.92           7.92
Financing Gap                                                  16.80                         16.80
Total:                                                         16.80           7.92          24.72
Borrower/Recipient: REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
Responsible agency: NATIONAL DEAT, KZNNC, DEAT (FS), DEAET (EC) & SANP
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):
=FY2002               2003        2004      2005       2006
Annual    0.50         1.00      2.00       2.20       2.20
Cumulative    0.50        1.50       3.50       5.70      7.90
|Project implementation period: 5 years



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The context of the project is a long-term collaborative initiative between Republic of South Africa (RSA)
and the Kingdom of Lesotho (Lesotho) to protect the exceptional biodiversity of the Drakensberg and
Maloti mountains through conservation, sustainable resource use, and land-use and development planning.
The project will focus on the Maloti-Drakensberg mountains, which are situated along the 300 km eastern
boundary of the Kingdom of Lesotho with the Republic of South Africa. Three South African Provinces
are affected. The western part of the KwaZulu-Natal Province forms the major area, but there are
extensions into the Eastern Cape Province to the south and the Free State Province to the north. The
Golden Gate National Park, managed by South African National Parks (SANParks) also falls within the
area. The total area covered in the initial project preparation ("the study area") is more than 13,000 km'.
Gradual delimitation of this vast area has taken place as the preparation has progressed.
The Maloti-Drakensberg transfrontier area encompasses distinct landscape and biological diversity. It is
rich in species and high in endemism. However, excessive livestock grazing, crop cultivation on steep
slopes, uncontrolled burning, alien invading species and human encroachment threatens this asset. Hence,
the GEF objective is to conserve this globally significant biodiversity. The project takes a regional
approach to conservation and development, and serves to hamess the potential of a transfrontier ecosystem.
While the ecosystem shows similarities on both sides of the border, there are considerable legal, social,
institutional and economic differences between the two countries, which the project design recognizes.
The secondary objective of the project is to contribute to community development through income
generation from nature-based tourism, by capacity building for sustainable utilization of the natural and
cultural heritage of the project area. Again, the approach is a regional one, in that a common tourist area
will enhance the attraction for visitors considerably, and in that joint management in a number of areas can
capture economies of scale. It is also clear that Lesotho has much to gain from capitalizing on the advanced
experience of conservation management in RSA, and its successful development of nature-based tourism, in
support of sustainable biodiversity protection.
In both countries, the project will provide new resources for transfrontier collaboration, project
management and coordination. A joint information management structure, common workshops, working
groups and studies, will allow for better planning of existing Protected Areas (PAs) as well as for wider
community-based conservation initiatives, with particular emphasis on rangeland management in
biodiversity priority areas. It will support the establishment of viable conservation management institutions
at local level to ensure community involvement, and planning and community-level training for
nature-based tourism development.
The components are adjusted to the specific situation in each of the countries. For example, there will be
further support to national level institution building for conservation in Lesotho, while this is unnecessary
in RSA. While the receptive capacity is more limited in Lesotho, the needs are also greater, and the
domestic counterpart funding more limited. The transfrontier nature of the project will ensure that the
analysis and resolution of conservation problems will be shared, and the resources and expertise in each
country complemented.
The GEF incremental cost contribution ofS 15.25 million for the two countries together, of which $7.3 25
goes to Lesotho and $7.925 million goes to RSA, should also be seen in the context of major ongoing
support to biodiversity conservation in Lesotho (UNDP: $2.5 million), and support to natural resources and
- 2 -



rural income enhancement in the highlands (AfDB: $8.4 million). Both are counted here as associated
financing, in addition to the Lesotho government contribution ($1.1 million). In RSA, the counterpart
contribution is estimated as $16.8m. Most of this represents expenditure for nature conservation by the
Kwazulu-Natal Nature Conservation Board (KZNNCB).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
(i) Globally significant biodiversity maintained and enhanced through protection for key habitats and
indicator species.
(ii) Expanded protected areas system in place with adequate buffer zones and community involvement.
(iii) Sehlabathebe National Park in Lesotho formally established and conservation management and
development plan agreed and under implementation;
(iv) Community initiatives in nature-based conservation financially viable and benefit transfers working;
(v) Joint declaration by the Government of Lesotho and South Africa of a transfrontier conservation area
incorporating Sehlabathebe National Park, the uKhahlamba-Drakensberg Park, and additional areas as
appropriate.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R99-29/1          Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/23/99
The primary objective of the Bank's assistance to South Africa is to help reduce the apartheid legacy of
poverty and inequality. This work is guided by three subsidiary objectives: (i) promoting growth and
higher employment; (ii) social and environmental sustainability; and (iii) regional development. The project
will contribute to the first by helping to capture the economic potential of nature-based tourism, thereby
creating jobs of which many will require little formal schoolirng. Through active involvement of local
conmmunities, it will also contribute to break down traditional barriers of inequality and exclusion. The link
to the second objective is obvious, in that environmental sustainability rests on the wise utilization of
natural resources. As one of the most biodiversity-rich countries on earth, South Africa also has a global
contribution to make in this respect. The project will contribute to the third CAS objective by furthering
collaboration between Lesotho and South Africa in the field of nature conservation and tourism. It will
engender positive collaboration between the two countries; enable shared learning and facilitate the process
of harvesting joint opportunities, e.g. by creating a regional tourism destination.
Document number: IDA/R98-56         Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/04/98
The primary objective of the Bank's assistance to Lesotho is to support Government's strategy of poverty
reduction and its efforts to sustain macroeconomic performance through greater integration into the
sub-regional economy. In this context, the Bank will support "a comprehensive approach to the natural
resource environment". This project will contribute to the overarching objective on furthering sub-regional
integration thanks to its transfrontier nature. Collaboration with South Africa will offer Lesotho access to a
great deal of experience in protected areas management. With better access to the Maloti mountain from
the South African side, enhanced management and joint marketing, it should be possible for Lesotho to tap
into the considerable tourism flows already available on the other side of the frontier. The project will also
address the explicit CAS objective to "ensure conservation of natural resource and protection of the
environment".
-3 -



la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The project is consistent with the GEF Operational Strategy for Biodiversity Conservation and specifically
with O.P.4 (Mountain Ecosystems). Consistent with this program, the project will address conservation
and sustainable use in a transfrontier mountain ecosystem in southern Africa, which is under increasing
human pressure and imminent threat of degradation. The Drakensberg highlands are a transfrontier area of
high biodiversity and cultural value along the borders of Lesotho and KwaZulu- Natal, Eastern Cape and
the Free State, South Africa. This area lies within one of the 200 Global Ecoregions proposed by World
Wide Fund for Nature (WWF); it has been designated as an Afromontane Regional Center of Endemism.
The uKhahlamba-Drakensberg Park has been listed as a Wetland of International Importance under the
Ramsar Convention, and a substantial part of the project area is proposed as a UNESCO World Heritage
Site and Peace Park.
The project is consistent with COP guidance in that it seeks to encourage conservation and sustainable use
of threatened habitats and endemic species within a vulnerable montane ecosystem. It responds to COP3
and COP4 guidance through capacity building for sustainable rangeland management. It fosters the
ecosystem approach by promoting improved management and sustainable use across national boundaries
and an altitudinal gradient of montane habitats under different management regimes, from protected areas
to community rangelands. The project further responds to COP4 guidance by promoting incentive measures
and community involvement in biodiversity management specifically to attain conservation objectives. It is
expected that conservation co-management initiatives developed for the project area will prove relevant to
other protected areas and community lands elsewhere. The project will support new and innovative
institutional measures to promote regional cooperation and exchange of expertise and to encourage
sustainable livelihoods consistent with both biodiversity conservation and poverty alleviation with a
particular emphasis on sustainable tourism. By building capacity for community conservation programs
and alternative livelihoods based on nature-related tourism the project promotes more equitable sharing of
benefits derived from biodiversity conservation and sustainable use.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
A. Lesotho
The project is firmly grounded in major policy and strategy documents of the Government of Lesotho.
Lesotho ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity on January 10, 1995. The National Environmental
Action Plan completed in 1989 states that the most widespread environmental problems are related to
overstocking of rangelands. Hence, the NEAP proposed the development of grazing associations,
enforcement of grazing regulations and the introduction of grazing fees. Implementation of the NEAP has
been very slow, and it was only in 1994 that a small National Environmental Secretariat (NES) was
instituted.
With support from UNDP, NES developed a National Action Plan to Implement Agenda 21 (1994). It
lays out a set of strategies including: the use of "low cost, easy to use erosion and rangeland control
measures" and the creation of "protected areas to save wildlife, and rare and endemic genetic material."
This plan is currently under implementation by the Ministry of Environment, Gender & Youth Affairs
(MEGYA).
The 1996 National Environmental Policy of Lesotho promotes sustainable management of natural
resources and advocates "broad-based participation of communities in the development and management of
public land and village commons". It also notes the need to "collaborate with neighboring countries in the
- 4 -



conservation of biological diversity with programs of tourism, water, transport and other sectoral
development."
A National Strategy on Lesotho's Biological Diversity: Conservation and Sustainable Use (1999) is also
available. This document specially identifies the need to "Improve conservation of the Maloti-Drakensberg
Ecosystem and reduce over-utilization of the range". Furthermore, it discusses the need to "Create
transfrontier linkages in protected areas to ensure that biodiversity-rich ecosystems and habitat are not
neglected or over-exploited". It proposes the creation of a transfrontier peace park.
The 1996 National Livestock and Range Management Policy established the overall goal "to achieve
greater self-reliance and increased incomes for livestock owners while protecting and regenerating the
underlying natural resource environment and resource base." To achieve this goal, the strategy defines a
large set of measures, including: the elimination of transhumance from the lowlands to the mountains;
adjudication of grazing rights within cattle posts; training of livestock owners in sustainable use of natural
resources; creation of Grazing Associations. To address the problem of degraded rangelands, six Range
Management Areas (RMAs) have been established covering a total of some 200,000 hectares (which
represent about one tenth of the grasslands in the country). The achievements of RMAs include
improvement in range conditions, the quality of animals, empowerment of range users in rangeland
management. This project will work with the Range Management Division of the Ministry of Agriculture,
to manage grazing in areas of importance for biodiversity conservation.
The Environment Bill (2000) has received Cabinet approval. It is being considered by Parliament, and
once the Bill is passed, it will provide a legal foundation for Environmental Assessment in Lesotho, as
discussed further below.
Tourism in Lesotho
In 1994, a consultant report, commissioned by the European Union, outlined a comprehensive Tourism
Development Plan for the Kingdom of Lesotho which was submitted to the Ministry of Tourism, Sports
and Culture but liffle of the plan has been implemented. The national tourism bodies are small and poorly
financed, and the tourism functions of central government are fragmented. The private business sector is
particularly weak in tourism and facilities and services are poor. Overall tourism numbers are low,
reaching a peak of 416,882 arrivals in 1992. Most visitors are South African and there are very small
numbers of non-African intemational visitors. This is in stark contrast to the explosive development of
South African tourism, including the Drakensberg area, which receives approximately 300,000 per year.
Documented problems reveal that in Lesotho the entire legal structure surrounding business development,
property law, insurance regulation, conflict resolution, loan guarantees and tourism regulation must be
upgraded if the private sector is to be enticed to fully contribute to tourism in Lesotho. Such legal
restructuring is being considered and a proposed AfDB project will make a major contribution to tourism
policy and implementation, particularly in the Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP) areas. The
Maloti-Drakensberg Conservation project will promote development of nature-based tourism in the Maloti
range and provide new altemative livelihood opportunities for local communities based on biodiversity
conservation.
The Ministry of Tourism has decided to elaborate a national tourism policy. This is seen as a necessary
precursor to the passing of the Tourism Development and Incentives 2000 Bill. The Bill provides for the
establishment of the Lesotho Development Corporation as a body corporate. All income to the Corporation
is applied to the promotion of tourism, with no dividend paid to the shareholder (GoL). The Lesotho
- 5-



Tourist Board will be abolished once the Bill is passed. It also allows for the designation of specific areas
for tourism development, where land can be sub-let to entrepreneurs. The Bill provides the legal basis for
incentives to the tourism sector.
The AfDB-supported Highlands Natural Recources and Rural Income Enhancement Project will bring
considerable resources to national level tourism development, as well as specifically to the LHDA project
areas. These are distinct from the areas where the current project plans its activities. (Additional details on
tourism are provided in Annex 14).
B. South Africa
South Africa ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity on November 2, 1995. The White Paper on
Environmental Management Policy (Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism, DEAT, 1997)
sets out the vision, principles, strategy goals and objectives and regulatory approach that the government
will use for environmental management. It defines a large set of priority areas, including the need to ensure
sustainable land utilization, conserve biodiversity, ensure sustainable tourism, and develop integrated
coastal-zone management. The White Paper gives a clear indication of the importance of tourism for job
creation and economic growth, but emphasizes that realizing the potential for tourism development will
depend largely on ensuring that development is environmentally sustainable and does not degrade the
environment or reduce biodiversity.
The White paper on the Conservation and Sustainable Use of South Africa's Biological Diversity
(DEAT, 1997) presents the following goals:
-   conserve South Africa's biodiversity;
*   use its biological resources sustainably;
i   ensure that benefits derived from its genetic resources serve national interests;
e   build human capacity to manage its biodiversity;
-   create conducive conditions and incentives for biodiversity conservation;
-   promote biodiversity conservation at the international level.
Root causes of biodiversity loss include rapid population growth, agricultural and human habitation
expansion into areas of biodiversity significance, soil erosion and the spread of alien invading species that
suppress the indigenous vegetation and its related fauna. It is recognized that unless ways are found for
local communities to benefit from nature conservation, these trends are likely to continue at an accelerated
pace in the future. This project builds on that ambition by expanding biodiversity conservation into
community lands through linkages with improved range management and community income generation
linked to biodiversity conservation. The said White Paper gave rise to the National Environmental
Management Act, 1998.
South Africa has seen a major expansion in its tourism volume in the last decade to become the number one
destination in Africa. Since 1994 the South African foreign-tourist arrivals have expanded at a
compounded rate of 20.5% per annum. In 1997 there were 5.5 million tourist arrivals in South Africa,
providing receipts of US $2.297 billion. This growth is expected to continue. The volume of domestic
tourism in South Africa is twice the size of foreign tourism, and 60% of all foreign tourists to South Africa
visit a game reserve or national park, revealing the very important element that parks and game reserves
play. The province of KwaZulu-Natal is the most popular domestic holiday destination and the
KwaZulu-Natal protected areas support a mature nature-based tourism industry. This market creates an
opportunity to combine biodiversity conservation with economic upliftment of local communities.
(Additional details on tourism are provided in Annex 14).
- 6 -



C. Transfrontier Collaboration in Nature Conservation
A fonnal Memorandum of Understanding, signed September 1, 1998 by the Principal Secretary of the
Ministry of Environment, Gender and Youth Affairs (Lesotho) and the Chairman of the KwaZulu- Natal
Nature Conservation Board (RSA) provided the platform for the preparation phase of this project. Both
parties formally pledged support for the preparation of a project proposal to create the Maloti-Drakensberg
Transfrontier Conservation and Development Area.
For the implementation phase, a wider MoU between the two countries is more appropriate. Having a
final MOU between South Africa and Lesotho signed and in effect has been agreed as a condition of
effectiveness. A draft MOU is already under consideration. Lesotho in particular has much to gain from a
transfrontier project. South Africa already has an advanced system for Protected Area management, and
has successfully developed nature-based tourism in border areas with about 300,000 visitors per year.
Through enhanced planning and the development of sustainable financing, this effort can be consolidated
and applied to adjacent areas in RSA where the policies of the previous government resulted in extensive
damage to the resource base and threats to biodiversity. A well-managed transfrontier conservation area
will stimulate further investment in tourism in both countries. If only a fraction of these visitors' flows
could be encouraged to cross the border and utilize facilities there, the local economic impact could be
considerable.
A framework for transfrontier cooperation is already in place through the Southem African Development
Community (SADC) environment and wildlife sectors. The SADC coordination Unit for Environment is
based in MEGYA. It has been consulted in the preparation process, and expressed support for the project
concept.
In addition, the non-governmental Peace Parks Foundation, which has amongst its patrons, former
President Mandela of South Africa and King Letsie III of Lesotho, has recognized the Maloti-Drakensberg
Transfrontier Conservation and Development Area as one of seven key Peace Park initiatives in the SADC
region.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Both countries have somewhat similar problems, but there are also pronounced differences in capacity and
the development of major sectors such as tourism. The main issues in Lesotho are (i) grazing pressure on
rangelands containing globally significant biodiversity, (ii) lack of a protected areas system, (iii) inadequate
conservation management capacity, and (iv) poor utilization of the potential for nature-based tourism.
Lesotho's Biodiversity Strategy identifies the need to manage biodiversity within the context of range
management. The project will build on the experience of creating Range Management Areas with their
associated Grazing Associations to limit overgrazing and create altemative sources of livelihood through
nature-based tourism. The project will also support institution and capacity building measures in Lesotho
to safeguard the efficient management of conservation areas. This entails further support for the
establishment of community conservation forums at the local level, and for the establishment of a
financially viable and properly staffed and equipped conservation agency.
A strategic issue to be addressed is the degree of involvement of the public sector in nature-based tourism
facility establishment and management. The World Bank is currently supporting a more active private
sector involvement, and this includes tourism establishments. In this spirit, the role of the public sector in
- 7 -



tourism development will be limited to matters of policy, legislation, and supportive infrastructure. The
project will work with tourism staff in the public and private sector to implement policy reforms already
suggested by previous sector work. Strong conditionality upfront would only serve to stall the process, but
the project will support the efforts of GoL and interested donors to undertake appropriate reformns to
stimulate private sector investment in tourism.
In South Africa, tourism (both national and international) is well developed, much of it focused on national
parks, but nature conservation has traditionally been the domain of a relatively privileged elite. This has
left a legacy of distrust between local communities and conservation agencies, which are now in the process
of being addressed. Nature conservation services throughout South Africa are keenly aware of the need to
enhance community relations in order to make nature conservation a mandate with broad popular support.
KZNNCB has initiated a program of community conservation, including a neighbor relations policy,
community conservation trust and levy, and associated programs. This policy has progressed far beyond
the Board's former approach of providing neighbors on an ad-hoc basis with natural resources such as
wood and thatch, harvested in protected areas. Today the policy aims to develop joint participation in
conservation programs and shared responsibility between the Service and community which lives adjacent
to protected areas. Liaison forums have been created to discuss boundary and land issues, resolve problem
animal issues, provide controlled access to protected areas, and to formalize mutual commitments.
KZNNCB also gives preference to local communities in employment, seeks to involve local entrepreneurs,
helps develop wildlife areas around the protected areas, conducts awareness raising activities, and has a
staff-training program for neighbor relations' projects.
The KwaZulu-Natal Nature Conservation Management Act now makes specific provision for the
establishment of Local Boards for protected areas, giving communities a statutory role in protected area
management. This concept is relatively new, local boards are in the process of being established and the
project provides an opportunity to implement this innovative approach. In addition, a community trust and
levy has been established, where all visitors making use of the protected areas in KZN contribute. During
1998 and 1999, approximately $0.6 million per year has been raised, and the issue now is to ensure the
equitable allocation of these funds. The local board structure is an essential component of this. The project
will strengthen these efforts in KwaZulu-Natal, Eastern Cape and the Free State, and promote community
initiatives to find suitable ways of utilizing natural resources, while alleviating chronic unemployment
problems.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The context of the project is a long-term collaborative initiative between South Africa and Lesotho to
protect the exceptional biodiversity of the Drakensberg and Maloti mountains through conservation,
sustainable resource use, and land-use and development planning. The project will focus on the
Maloti-Drakensberg Mountains, which are situated on both sides of the 300 km eastern boundary of
Lesotho with the RSA. Three South African provinces are affected. The westem part of the
KwaZulu-Natal province forms the major area, but there are extensions into the Eastern Cape province to
the south and the Free State province to the north. The Golden Gate Highlands National Park, managed by
South African National Parks (SANParks) also falls within the area. The total area covered in the initial
project preparation studies is more than 13,000 sq. km in both countries (see map). Gradual delimitation of
this vast area has progressed during preparation, as specified below.
- 8 -



The GEF project has eight inter-related components in both countries, that together serve to conserve
globally significant biodiversity, and to develop opportunities for nature-based tourism in the area. These
components serve to complement activities in Lesotho funded by UNDP ($2.5 million; ongoing) and AfDB
($8.4 m.), and significant domestic contributions in RSA. Capacity building is a theme that runs through
the entire project in an integrated manner. In RSA, the project will support strategic conservation planning
capacity for the project area and the project oversight function at the National DEAT level.
The components are phased to provide for logical sequencing of tasks, and to allow for basic management
through the PCU to be established before actual implementation starts. It is of particular importance that
financial management and procurement staff are in place early to handle the processing of financial flows
and orders. The phasing of staffing is set to allow for proper time for recruitment in a competitive and
transparent manner. Implementation of community-level investments will be preceded by extensive
consultation. The legal basis for Sehlabathebe National Park (SNP), and recruitment of key staff will be
attended to before any on-site investment there is launched.
Component 1. Project management and transfrontier cooperation
The transfrontier nature of this project requires strong regional coordination mechanisms to support an
ecosystem management approach in the Maloti-Drakensberg area. A bilateral Steering Committee was
established to guide project preparation and will continue to provide guidance to the project. The project
will provide the incremental costs associated with transfrontier consultation, cooperation and management
through financing for (i) a bilateral collaboration forum (Steering Committee, SC), (ii) national Project
Coordination Committees, PCCs, (iii) coordination offices in RSA and Lesotho with full-time coordination,
financial management and procurement staff (PCUs), (iv) Financial Management Committees (FMCs)
attached to these Units, (v) joint technical working groups to develop and implement action plans to focus
on topics and issues of common interest (vi) joint workshops to present results and achieve consensus work
plans, (vii) communication linkages, including a GIS-based Knowledge Management system served by
trained staff, and (viii) joint management activities related to fire protection, rescue service, staff training
and nature-based tourism such as marketing, booking and visitor planning. A bilateral MoU, a condition
of project effectiveness, will define the parameters for transfrontier cooperation.
The project will provide resources for meetings and activities led by domestic coordination committees
within each country, ensuring wide stakeholder representation of all stakeholder groups within the project
area on management decisions related to protected areas and community lands within the broader
ecosystem. This component will also support an extensive communication program using Intemet, radio
and newsletters, and community outreach will ensure that stakeholders are informed and involved in project
activities.
This component will also address monitoring and evaluation of project progress against key performance
indicators through a six-monthly review of results, and involving the PCUs and Steering Committee.
GEF contribution: $2.64 m.         Co-financing: $0.49 m.
Component 2. Conservation planning
The preparatory studies generated extensive documentation and data regarding resources in the study area,
including physical, biological, social and economic resources and uses. The project concept is for a
transfrontier conservation and development area, which needs to be planned and zoned to ensure that areas
-9-



of global and national biodiversity importance are protected and managed appropriately. This requires that
a vision and strategy are prepared following further stakeholder consultation and with the involvement of
the relevant authorities on both sides of the border. Conceptual proposals for compatible land-use zonation
derived in the preparatory phase need to be negotiated and action plans prepared for implementation. This
implies conservation planning at the landscape level, and is designed to be facilitated by appropriate
professionals, and with the full involvement of the staff of the respective ministries and departments in both
countries. At this scale, there is also a need to harmonize, to the greatest degree possible, the approaches
and activities of the five nature conservation management agencies which have a responsibility in parts of
the area, namely the Conservation Division of the Lesotho Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperative and Land
Reclamation (MoA), South African National Parks (SANParks), the KwaZulu-Natal Nature Conservation
Board (KZNNCB), the Free State Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism (FS-DEAT), and the
Eastern Cape Departrnent of Economic Affairs, Environment and Tourism (EC-DEAET).
Deficiencies in data, particularly for biodiversity, were identified in preparation, and these will be
addressed by focused data collection and further analysis to confirm priority areas. A participatory
biodiversity monitoring system will also be designed to ensure that data on trends can be derived for areas
across the landscape. Habitat and species data collected under the assessments will provide the baseline for
monitoring activities to determine project impact. Field assistants recruited from local communities will
also be trained to assist in surveying as a precursor to ongoing monitoring of key components. A core
professional support team for biodiversity conservation will be assembled in this component. The project
interventions will support the current process whereby posts for specialized functions are being established
and filled, especially within the National Parks Section of the Conservation Division of MoA in Lesotho,
and will complement the competent but thinly stretched staff in the South African agencies. By building a
solid foundation, it will be possible for these agencies to maintain effectiveness beyond the project lifetime,
including, in some cases the continuation of employment of specialist staff, for which provision is being
made in future planning.
GEF: $1.40 m.                      Co-financing: $0.50 m.
Component 3. Protected area planning
There are two sets of areas where further detailed planning is required, namely existing protected areas and
proposed conservation areas. Planning is carried out in a number of phases, beginning with the overall
development and zonation plans for each area, then preparing detailed management programs and finally
addressing business planning and sustainability. These phases are described in more detail under each
sub-component below. Further detail is provided in Annex 2.
Sub-component 3.1.  Protected area development planning and zonation
The nature conservation management agencies have been unable to obtain the resources, particularly of
manpower, to complete overall detailed conservation development plans for protected areas. In the
uKhahlamba-Drakensberg Park, the assignment of nature conservation management to the provinces
enabled the consolidation of several separately proclaimed and managed protected areas and state forest
nature reserves and wilderness areas into a single entity. Management was rationalized accordingly, but a
long-outstanding component has been an overall concept development and zonation plan for the park,
which would ensure that protected area development takes place in an orderly way, that management
infrastructure is correctly placed, and to provide a basis for the elaboration of management programs.
- 10-



In other parts of the study area, there are existing protected areas where inadequate overall development
planning and zonation has been conducted, and where there are insufficient skilled staff in the nature
conservation agencies to address the deficit. These include Ongeluksnek and Ntsikeni in the Eastern Cape
and Sterkfontein Nature Reserve in the Free State. The conceptual development plan for Sehlabathebe
National Parks (SNP) requires revision.
Sub-component 3.2   Protected area management planning
The preparation and continual update of protected area management plans is an essential component to
guide the operational management of protected areas in an adaptive way. The protected area management
team including the specialist input of an ecologist and other professionals usually undertakes this exercise.
It is designed to determine the priority management programs for the effective management of the resource
and the activities that occur there, and encompasses:
*   Management to conserve biodiversity
*   Community conservation programs
*   Visitor facilities management
*   Protected area administration (security, infrastructure, communications etc.)
*   Research and information
Objectives are determined for each within the policy framework and zonation established in 3.1 above,
management options are detailed and discussed, action plans for implementation are developed, monitoring
programs are devised and implemented and essential research is conducted. This allows the management
team to implement management programs in pursuit of the protected area objectives and vision. Once the
first version of the management plan is in place, it is the management team that will implement and
adaptively develop the plan further. The preparatory work for developing this project concept document
identified several deficiencies in the existing plans. New areas which are being developed together with
communities will require a facilitated planning processes, once the earlier consultations have been
conducted.
Sub-component 3.3   Protected area business planning
Nature conservation management agencies have traditionally managed areas on the basis of budgets derived
from government subsidies. Whereas, it is likely that subsidies will continue to provide core funding for
biodiversity management, there is an increasing requirement to develop alternative sources of conservation
funding, preferably through the sustainable use of the resource base and the leverage of funds in other
ways. It is therefore essential that business plans be prepared for each managed area. Business plans also
encompass the human resources and organizational systems that need to be in place to ensure effective
management. Areas of interest for this activity include the need to optimize the retums from the use of the
resource base e.g. by tourists, to make contributions to both biodiversity management and community
development.
A key strategy adopted in KwaZulu-Natal has been to ensure that nature-based tourism generates sufficient
revenues for this, but this has also required the development of appropriate business models to incorporate
private sector investment and community equity in developments based in or adjacent to protected areas.
The business-planning component of the project activities will investigate all possible options for
sustainable financing, and provide a basis for the effective management of these resources to meet
performance targets. In the context of new protected areas, it will also be necessary to demonstrate that the
option of conservation/nature-based tourism will generate greater benefits than the current subsistence
land-uses.
- 11 -



The planning will be conducted by the core biodiversity conservation support team (Component 2) together
with a core planning support team established under this component, and with the assistance of the social
ecologists, community extension workers and facilitators (see Component 6).
GEF: $1.35 m.              Co-financing: $0.50 m.
Component 4. Conservation management in existing PAs
Components 4 and 5 address many of the same management issues, but with a major difference in context,
which has justified their presentation in two components. Major threats to mountain biodiversity include
alien plant infestations, historical soil erosion, inappropriate fire management regimes, inadequate security,
over-grazing, poor waste management and poor management of cultural resources. In the existing
protected areas there is need to develop strategies for effectively intervening and addressing continuing
threats and residual impacts. In the areas that have yet to be developed as protected areas, a phased
approach will be taken with active management interventions preceded by extensive consultation.
In RSA, the primary focus will be on the continued implementation of alien invading plant species control
programs, which have been enhanced by the successful Working for Water model already applied in some
parts of the study area. The hallnarks of this approach are the employment and capacity-building of local
communities and the development of entrepreneurial opportunities using the materials that result from the
clearing. This component will also support the (incremental costs) of rehabilitation and maintenance of
management roads, paths and tracks through conserved areas to minimize damage due to historical neglect
and poorly maintained infrastructure. In some protected areas, there is a need to devise and implement an
appropriate fire management regime, improve security programs including the training and equipping of
field rangers, improve the management of flora and fauna, and address concerns with priority species, e.g.
oribi and sungazer lizards which are threatened.
The major focus for activity in Lesotho concerns SNP. This includes the construction of a new office
building, a new nature interpretation facility, a dormitory for school groups, upgrading of skills among its
staff, the employment of a resident ecologist, improvement of administrative, communication and power
facilities, implementation of a fire management program, upgrading of fencing, and acquiring necessary
vehicles for park management. Virtually every aspect of protected area management will require the
development or transfer of strategy and capacity to achieve effectiveness.
GEF: $3.28 m.        Co-financing: $14.90 m.
Component 5. Conservation management outside of existing PAs
Focusing on important areas identified under preparation, the project will work with community
conservation forums to understand concerns and problems, and to devise appropriate management solutions
to conserve biodiversity and promote sustainable use. The management techniques will draw strongly on
strategies devised under Component 4, as well as the experience of Range Management Areas (RMAs) in
Lesotho, and will be tailored to the context of open access range management and the specific community
context in each area. Of primary concern is the issue of overgrazing and loss of wetlands. Conditions for
sustainable livestock management in conservation areas will be determined jointly with local comrnunities.
The approach to be applied draws heavily on the experience gained in the LHDA Contract 604 situation,
where community conservation forums were established to define problems and seek solutions in defined
areas under their jurisdiction. Support will be forthcoming from the Divisions of Land-Use Planning and
- 12 -



Range Management in Lesotho, and it has been suggested by the Lands, Survey and Physical Planning
Unit, that these areas are declared as Planning Areas. Although this is a modest approach to be introduced
in fairly small and well-defined areas, it will provide valuable lessons to all stakeholders regarding its
applicability in other areas of the range. Within new community conservation areas, the community
conservation program will draw on local expertise and employment to build capacity to implement similar
conservation measures to those envisaged in Component 4, but focusing mainly on range management and
the rationalization and rehabilitation of eroded tracks and paths. In KwaZulu-Natal, in addition to range
management, substantial effort will be placed on the eradication of alien plants in the Upper Thukela area.
Cultural heritage management is a part of this component. The project will provide incremental financing
to develop teaching materials and displays, restoration of sites and selective development to attract visitors,
staff training and community education related to cultural heritage, particularly rock art. This will build on
or replicate experience in RSA e.g. the training of community guides, the preparation of sites to
accommodate tourists, and the awareness program carried out by Bergwatch (an NGO) in the Mnweni
area.
GEF: $1.47 m. Co-financing: $0.20 m.
Component 6. Community involvement
The activities in Components 2 to 5 above have emphasized the need for extensive participation and
involvement of local communities. This cannot, however be achieved in an ad-hoc way, since process of
participation must be built on trust, confidence and an enduring institutional framework. The analysis of
stakeholders within the project area has reinforced earlier findings of a complex socio-economic context.
Contemporary approaches to participatory learning and action suggest that enhanced natural resource
management involves the community at all levels and stages.
Building on the highly successful community conservation programs in KwaZulu-Natal and around the
Golden Gate Highlands National Park, the proposed activities will expand these programs into new areas in
RSA and in the focal areas of Lesotho. These community conservation programs will promote
conservation extension and alternative livelihoods consistent with biodiversity conservation objectives. The
project will support staff and equipment needs for community conservation units in each country,
coordinated by a professional social ecologist with a support team of conservation extension staff. At the
local level the project will encourage partnership fora and employ and train community facilitators to work
with local communities. Targeted training will be offered to develop skills related to conservation and
cultural and nature-based tourism. Possible areas for support include the establishment of pony trekking
stations, training local guides for nature and cultural heritage (e.g. rock art) interpretation services, training
in basket weaving, pottery and other craft production and marketing advice, and propagation and sale of
medicinal and omnamental plants.
Community conservation programs will serve as an entry point for communication, conflict resolution and
development programs, and build and maintain trust between communities and conservation agencies. The
long-term nature of this program will demand that there is continuity following project implementation. In
Lesotho, MEGYA has created capacity for community outreach that could be expanded over the project
period to pick up some of these functions. In RSA, there is commitment to support and expand community
conservation program, and to seek further co-financing.
GEF: $3.05 m.              Co-financing: $0.45 m.
- 13-



Component 7. Nature-based Tourism Development
As discussed in detail in Annex 14, nature-based tourism is already a thriving business lead by the private
sector in South Africa. In Lesotho, the private sector is still weak in this respect, and poorly supported by
the legislative and policy environment. However, changes are imminent, as a new Tourism Policy will soon
be prepared in Lesotho, and new legislation has already been drafted. The African Development Bank
(AfDB) is funding an operation in support of tourism development in Lesotho, and the cuwrent project has
carefully steered clear of any duplication of effort. Hence, the focus will be very much on
community-focused capacity building. The role of the private sector will be one of supplying managerial
know-how, marketing skills, and modest amounts of capital for tourism investment. The project will
facilitate such partnerships between the private sector and communities.
While the actual investment in tourism facilities will almost entirely be left to the private sector, there is a
legitimate role for the public sector, supported by this project. The project will provide incremental
financing for planning for visitor management and sustainable tourism development in connection with
areas of particular interest from a biodiversity perspective, as well as providing training for agency staff
and local community members in marketing and service skills to promote community ecotourism initiatives.
Specific components of this component are a sizable training program directed to community leaders and
emerging entrepreneurs in order for local talent to adequately capture commercial opportunities through
small-scale enterprises.
An important component especially in South Africa initially, will be the development of models and
capacity to support the involvement of local communities in tourism development associated with existing
protected areas and proposed conununity conservation areas. In both countries this activity will build on
experience from KwaZulu-Natal where the use of conimunity tourism levies on visitors to protected areas
is generating sufficient funds for communities to invest in equity in planned tourism developments in the
uKhahlamba-Drakensberg Park. This component will provide both direct employment opportunities and
create an enhanced opportunity for the involvement of local communities in economic opportunities based
biodiversity conservation. Private sector developers will also be encouraged to partner communities and the
conservation agencies to build the necessary capacity. Entrepreneurs from the private sector have much to
contribute to the training programs for communities that the project will sponsor. They can also serve as
paid "mentors" for communities.
In Lesotho, there are already some emergent small hiking and pony-trekking businesses with the potential
for expansion to incorporate a "transfrontier mountain hiking way" and which could involve many
communities in the provision of overnight facilities and provision of food. These opportunities will be
explored with the private sector operators and relevant communities. In the Golden Gate National Park,
ovemight hiking accommodation already generates revenues that match the use of similar land for grazing.
At a regional level, the project will support small incremental costs associated with development of regional
tourism information, an awareness program for nature-based tourism.
GEF: $1.65 m.   Co-financing: $0.31 m.+ significant AfDB associated financing
Component 8. Institutional development
Lesotho has identified the need to develop an effective nature conservation management agency to manage
protected areas and nature conservation generally in the country. The expanded scope and intensity of
conservation management at SNP, the development of Ts'ehlanyane and Bokong nature reserves and the
- 14-



potential development of new protected areas in the future will place further demands on this capacity.
Some fundamental issues need to be addressed, including the drafting of appropriate enabling legislation to
create the new agency, and to define its functions and responsibilities. This sub-component is very limited,
and will be implemented in close collaboration with the UNDP-funded conservation project to ensure
synergy and absence of duplication of effort. At the local level, there will be a need to support the
community conservation forums that have already been established.
In RSA, the introduction of local boards and community trusts for protected areas will require support,
following the community consultation and negotiation envisaged under Component 6. In other areas in
South Africa, there are emergent community forums that require support to develop in stature and
involvement, perhaps along the lines of the KwaZulu-Natal model. The activities in this project will be
largely confined to rationalizing some of the legislation, e.g. in the Eastem Cape, where several deficiencies
were identified in the preparatory studies.
In both countries, there is a need to support the emergence of local boards representing communities around
conservation areas (see Components 4 and 5). At the local level, community conservation forums
established in Lesotho will require further support and formalization. In RSA, the initiation of the program
to establish local boards for protected areas will be strengthened. Of primary concem is to establish the
modus operandi for these structures, and to build capacity in the nature conservation agency, in the
appointed board/trust members and in the community at large to contribute towards the compilation and
monitoring of the implementation of the management plans for protected areas.
GEF: $0.41 m.            Co-financing: $0.54 m.
Summary of Component Costs
Indicative          Bank     % of      GEF      % of
Component               Sector         Costs    % of   financing   Bank   financing    GEF
(USsm)   Total   (USSU)  financing  (US$MW  flnancJng
1. Project Management &                          3.13      9.4    0.00        0.0     2.64     17.3
Transfrontier
2. Conservation Planning                          1.91      5.8    0.00       0.0.    1.40      9.2
3. PA Management Planning                         1.85      5.6    0.00       0.0     1.35      8.9
4. Conservation Management.                      18.18     54.8    0.00       0.0     3.28     21.5
PAs
5. Conservation Management.                       1.67      5.0    0.00       0.0     1.47      9.6
Ex-PAs
6. Community Involvement                         3.50      10.6    0.00       0.0     3.05     20.0
7. Nature-based Tourism                           1.96      5.9    0.00       0.0     1.65     10.8
8. Institutional Development                     0.95       2.9    0.00       0.0     0.41      2.7
Total Project Costs                    33.15    100.0    0.00        0.0,.  15.25    100.0
Total Financing Required                     33.15    100.0    0.00        0.0    15.25    100.0
Note: Figures in the table above may not add up due to rounding. Further details on component activities and
costs are contained in Annex 4.
- 15-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The long-term transfrontier collaboration needs to take on a more firmly agreed, legal basis, to provide a
backbone to the implementation of this and possibly other projects related to the same area. A
Memorandum of Understanding between RSA and Lesotho, acceptable to the World Bank, is a condition of
effectiveness.
In RSA, the success of this project is not dependent on any significant change in policy or institutional
arrangements. The basic legislation, policy and regulation for successful conservation and tourism
development is already in place, particularly through the National Environmental Management Act, 1998.
The Lesotho Cabinet has approved the new Environment Bill, which is currently before Parliament. This
will provide an adequate basis for the project in terms of environmental management. For the specific
purpose of conservation management, there is a need for additional resources to establish an effective
conservation management authority. This could be done in the form of a statutory body, probably linked to
MEGYA as a semi-autonomous institution. This would allow the agency to generate and retain earnings
from conservation management, with enhanced prospects of financial viability in the future. An
institutional arrangement that is satisfactory to the World Bank is a mid-term review target.
Furthermore, the legal status of Sehlabathebe National Park needs to be formally confirmed. SNP came
into existence in 1970 as a wildlife sanctuary and national park, by force of Government Notice No. 34,
under the Game Preservation Proclamation No. 33 of 1951. The formal confirmation of its status as a
National Park under the more recently promulgated National Parks Act of 1975 is required as a condition
for effectiveness.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will target local communities as major beneficiaries in both countries, and actively include them
in the implementation. Land use in the project intervention areas will be enhanced through an adapted
RMA approach that will increase local productivity on rangelands in defined areas of high biodiversity
value.
Benefit transfer schemes will be designed, so that a part of the increased tourism revenue will flow to
surrounding communities. They will also be assisted to better organize themselves to capitalize on the
economic opportunities that ecotourism offers. Nature-based tourism development will benefit those
directly employed in this diverse service industry as guides, hotel and restaurant employees, drivers,
tourism agents, makers and vendors of crafts and so on. There will also be benefits for those indirectly
engaged in supplying the tourism industry with its goods and equipment. In addition the project will
provide training and opportunities for community entrepreneurs to become involved in developing small
businesses related to biodiversity conservation such as ecotourism facilities and services, eradication of
alien species etc., and methods of involving communities as direct shareholders in new tourism
developments will be investigated and applied. The conservation of globally significant biodiversity will
benefit everyone concemed with the preservation of the natural heritage, in line with GEF objectives.
International and national visitors to the conserved areas will enjoy recreational and aesthetic use-values,
while non-users will derive option and existence value from their conservation.
It is also foreseen that the project could generate insights into successful models of community-based
biodiversity conservation, which could be replicated in other NRM projects, and hence benefit other target
communities. Adequate provision has been made in the budget for information and communication about
the lessons from project implementation. The project will continue to operate a website through which
- 16-



progress reports, studies and contact details can be disseminated.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Both countries recognize the need to strengthen transfrontier cooperation with respect to the
Maloti-Drakensberg area. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed on September 1, 1998 by the
Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Environment, Gender and Youth Affairs (Lesotho) and the Chairnan
of the KwaZulu-Natal Nature Conservation Board (South Africa) for the preparation of the GEF Project.
This structure has served to successfully test the ability to shape consensus-type solutions across the
frontier.
Based on the experience of transfrontier management during the preparation phase, a Memorandum of
Understanding is being discussed between the two countries forrnalizing their long-term cooperation efforts
with respect to the area. Under the proposed MoU, a joint Steering Committee (SC) will be established for
the purposes of serving as a forum for developing a combined programmatic and strategic vision for the
area. In addition, the Steering Committee will promote policy discussions and issue recommendations
concerning the conservation and development of the area, as well as coordinate programs, projects and
initiatives. Hence, the current project will be one of several initiatives that the new bilateral structure can
oversee. The project will lend further support through legal training, to further strengthen the legal basis
for collaboration between the two countries.
The proposed composition of the SC includes:
(a) Lesotho: (i) Ministry of Environment, Gender and Youth Affairs (Chair); (ii) Ministry of Agriculture,
Cooperatives and Land Reclamation (Conservation Division and Range Management Division); (iii)
Mvinistry of Tourism, Sports and Culture; (iv) Ministry of Local Government; (v) Ministry of Foreign
Affairs; and (vi) Ministry of Development Planning.
(b) South Africa: (i) the Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism (Pretoria: Chair); (ii)
KwaZulu-Natal Nature Conservation Service; (iii) Department of Foreign Affairs; (iv) Department of
Economic Affairs, Environment and Tourism (Eastern Cape); (v) Department of Environmental Affairs
and Tourism (Free State), and (vi) SANParks.
Two Project Coordinators will assist the SC. They will serve as the secretaries of the SC, and have the
overall responsibility for day-to-day implementation of the project in accordance with the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP). Additional staff agreed upon are two Project Accountants, two Procurement
Experts and support staff. Together, these will form two Project Coordination Units (PCUs). The
Coordinators and Accountants will be in place as a condition of effectiveness to minimnize delay in
implementation.
Several institutions in both countries have mandates to manage biodiversity, protected areas and
nature-based tourism. To be effective, the project must accommodate this diversity of institutions in an
efficient framework. The agreed arrangement on the domestic level will be a Project Coordination
Committee (PCC) in each of the two countries. While the representation at the SC level is expected to be
at the top decision-making level, the PCC should attract technical level expertise. At the PCC level,
inclusion of NGO/CBO representatives will be appropriate, which will be further reinforced by the
establishment of community-based conservation fora on a more local level. Draft TORs for the PCCs were
agreed in principle at appraisal, while final agreement on the TORs is a condition for effectiveness.
- 17 -



The PCUs will be overseen by Financial Management Committees (FMC) comprising professional
financial management staff from the PCU and external expertise. The FMC will review quarterly Financial
Statements, Project Progress Reports and Procurement Management Reports. Draft Financial
Management Plans including terms of reference for the FMC were developed at appraisal. Finalization and
agreement on these, and installation of adequate financial procedures, are conditions of effectiveness.
In Lesotho, the main implementing body will be the Ministry for Environment, Gender and Youth Affairs
(MEGYA). The Ministry came about as a result of the amalgamation of the former National Environment
Secretariat (NES), SADC-ELMS, Youth Affairs and the Department of Environment, Ministry of Natural
Resources. NES was instituted in 1994 as a unit under the Prime Minister's Office. NES within MEGYA
is headed by a Director and employs a staff of 31 and manages a budget of approximately $400,000 per
year.
MoA currently oversees SNP and other protected areas. The National Parks Section has 2.5 posts at
Headquarters and 12 in the National Park. Capacity building will be necessary to ensure sustainable
management of these and any new areas delineated in the transfrontier area. Under the overall guidance of
MEGYA, the Conservation Division of MoA or other relevant agency, will be responsible for managing
that part of the grant destined for SNP and related capacity building. The Division for Rangeland
Management within the same Ministry has also contributed to the design of this project, and will be
collaborating in the implementation of rangeland management initiatives.
The Ministry of Tourism, Sport and Culture (MoT) will play a leading role in the nature-based tourism
component of the project in Lesotho. Under the overall guidance of MEGYA, they will be responsible for
implementing this component. Under the leadership of MEGYA, the implementing agencies in Lesotho will
form a Project Coordination Committee Agreement (PCC). Agreement in principle on a national Project
Coordination Committee and draft TORs was achieved at appraisal.
In South Africa, the main implementing institution will be the provincial KwaZulu-Natal Nature
Conservation Board (KZNNCB). The role of KZNNCB and its operative arm, known as "KwaZulu-Natal
Wildlife" (KZNW) is defined in the KwaZulu-Natal Act No. 9 of 1997: "The primary function of the
Conservation Service is nature conservation inside and outside protected areas" under the guidance of a
Board, appointed by the Minister responsible for environmental matters in the province of
KwaZulu-Natal". The KZNNCB has a staff of approximately 3,600 and a budget for 1999 of
approximately R250 million. The KZNNCB is responsible for nature conservation throughout the
province, on state, private and commnunal lands and directly manages 110 protected areas, with a total area
of 79,600 hectares. KZNNCB will implement the project under a management contract with National
DEAT. A draft version was considered at negotiations, and a final version is a condition of effectiveness.
Parts of the project will be implemented by the corresponding nature conservation agencies in the Free
State and the Eastern Cape Provinces and SANParks for the Golden Gate Highlands National Park. The
Free State Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism (FS-DEAT) was established by the
Ordinance #8 of 1969. The mandate was derived from the constitution. DEAT in the Free State has a staff
of 590 and an annual budget of R50 million. The current protected areas within the project study area are
the Sterkfontein Nature Reserve (18,000 ha) and the QwaQwa National Park (22,000 ha). In addition,
39,000 ha of traditional land with conservation status is in the QwaQwa area.
The Eastern Cape Chief Directorate of Environmental Affairs is part of the Eastern Cape Department of
Economic Affairs, Environment and Tourism (EC-DEAET). It was established in 1974 by the Nature
Conservation, Act 10, 1987, the Nature and Environmental Conservation Ordinance #19, 1974, and the
- 18-



Environmental Conservation Decree #9, 1992. It has a staff of 940 and an annual budget of R60 million.
Current protected areas are the Ongeluksnek Reserve, established in 1990 (11,756 ha), and the Ntsikeni
Wildlife Reserve, established in 1950 and extended to 9,200 ha in 1977.
The South African National Parks (SANParks) manages 16 parks covering 3.1 million hectares. In
1997/98 these sites catered to 1.5 million visitors. One of these, the Golden Gate Highlands National Park,
falls within the project study area. SANParks is currently the implementing agency of the highly successful
Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Project, funded by GEF.
Under the leadership of National DEAT, the implementing agencies in RSA will form a Project
Coordination Committee (PCC). Draft TORs for the PCC were considered at negotiations, and final TORs
is a condition of effectiveness. Coordination arrangements in RSA will also be subject to an inter-agency
MoU that is under discussion. A final, agreed version of this is a condition of effectiveness.
The project will provide support on a part-time basis for a long-term consultant attached to National
DEAT. The mains tasks of this person will be to assist the DG of DEAT (i) to develop the appropriate
legal, institutional and managerial model for the long-tenn management of the project area, and (ii) to carry
out the project oversight functions.
0. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
PROJECT RATIONALE
The project area contains biodiversity of global significance. The principal vegetation type is Austral
Afro-alpine vegetation, which is floristically distinct from mountainous areas to the north. It is species
rich, and the entire Maloti-Drakensberg area contains at least 2,153 plant species, 295 bird species, 60
mammal species, 49 species of reptiles and 26 species of amphibians. It is also distinct, with a high degree
of plant (estimated at 30%), bird and invertebrate endemism.
This asset is under threat. In the baseline altemative, the pressure on these resources from livestock
grazing, invading alien species, crop cultivation on steep slopes, umcontrolled burning, and human
settlement will continue to grow. The root causes behind this development are discussed further in Annex
12. The potential for sustainable and economically beneficial use that this asset represents runs the risk of
being squandered. GEF funding to cover the incremental cost is necessary to enhance coordination between
the two countries, and to undertake the planning and management interventions required to secure
prioritized conservation, community consultation and development cooperation to realize the ecotourism
potential.
The project is consistent with the GEF Operational Strategy for Biodiversity, especially support for in-situ
conservation and protected areas under the Operational Program for Mountain Ecosystems. The
Drakensberg-Maloti Mountains form a distinct geological and biodiversity entity in the Austral
Afro-Alpine region, and is likely to meet the criteria for listing as a World Heritage Site in terms of both
natural and cultural criteria. RSA has already submitted a World Heritage nomination proposal for the
Ukhahlamba-Drakensberg Park that the IUCN is currently evaluating.
The project is also consistent with Article 8 (in-situ conservation) of the Convention on Biological
Diversity. It will provide support for the strengthened protection, management and extension of protected
- 19-



areas in a region of unique biodiversity and will promote the protection of ecosystems, natural habitats and
maintenance of viable populations of species within, and beyond protected area boundaries.
Moreover, the GEF alternative will promote the objectives of Agenda 21: Chapter 13 Managing Fragile
Ecosystems: Sustainable Mountain Development, by forging a common set of objectives and cooperative
management of the mountain ecosystem by communities and landowners adjacent to the protected areas,
and in the neighboring territory of Lesotho. The project promotes conservation, sustainable use and the
more equitable sharing of the benefits of biodiversity with local communities. The project will also promote
sustainable land-use practices in a region characterized not only by exceptional natural resource values
including biodiversity and watershed value, but also by great fragility and susceptibility to land
degradation.
The project will support and endorse transfrontier cooperation in Southern Africa, consistent with the
importance given to sub-regional cooperation in the CAS for South Africa, and the restoration of social and
economic stability in the sub-region. It will furthermore unlock the development potential of a region where
many people are greatly in need, and where development opportunities are compatible with the sustainable
development and use of the biodiversity resources within the transfrontier conservation and development
area. It will avert the degradation, which occurs in the absence of comprehensive planning and
(levelopment control, and maintain the outstanding universal value of this unique area for humanity.
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
It is acknowledged that projects confined to a single country are easier to manage than projects with a
transfrontier character. Considerable transaction costs are added to the preparation of the project because
two countries and their respective institutions have to agree on a common approach and set of activities.
Ilowever, the essence of this project concept is to tie together a common ecosystem, and thereby capitalize
on the considerable experience and human resource potential that RSA has built up over decades of active
nature conservation, and Lesotho regarding range management on communal land. The "twinning" of the
two countries in joint management of this area will allow cost-effective, joint activities compatible with
national sovereignty, and capacity building with a minimum of institutional boundaries to interfere.
It should be noted that a road component that was previously prepared for Lesotho has been taken out of
the current project. Road construction for nature-based tourism and conservation is still vital, but it has
been agreed that this component is best pursued as a part of the sizable sectoral program already in
existence in Lesotho.
- 20 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___   ______ ___(Bank-financed  projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Biodiversity Conservation         Cape Peninsula Biodiversity       HS            HS
Conservation Project (RSA)
Biodiversity Conservation         Great Addo National Park
(identified only) (RSA)
Tourism Development Research      Nature Tourism's Contribution
to Econornic Development and
Conservation Finance (RSA)
Biodiversity Conservation         A cluster of MSPs have been
prepared (RSA)
Water, Watershed management,      Lesotho Highlands Water            S             S
community-based conservation      Project (LS)
Agriculture                       Agriculture Policy & Capacity      S             S
Building (LS)
Road Maintenance                  Roads Rehabilitation and           S             S
Maintenance Project (LS)
Poverty alleviation               Community Development
Support Project (LS)
Land Management                   Land Management &
Conservation Project (LS)
Other development agencies
EU                                Drakensberg-Maloti
Conservation Program (LS)
UNDP                              Conservation Mountain
Biodiversity in Southem
Lesotho
African Development Bank          Highlands Natural Resources
and Rural Income Enhancement
Project (LHETP)                                 _
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Land Management and Conservation Project (LMP) in Lesotho was designed to develop local skills
in the planning and management of nature resources through a participatory approach. The Credit became
effective in December 1988, but the project was closed ahead of schedule in June, 1995. The project aimed
to prepare and implement 47 Resource Management Plans to improve land management of both range and
village lands in seven of the ten districts in Lesotho. The project fell far short of its expectations.
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) summarizes a set of lessons learned: the need for careful
and detailed preparation; high training needs within Ministries and Councils; decision making at lowest
- 21 -



appropriate levels; flexible project design. The current project has spent considerably more time in
informing the public and relevant institutions, in gathering necessary information and will build on pilot
experiences to develop community conservation in RSA. There is a strong capacity building component for
Lesotho institutions and communities, building in opportunities for training and exchange of expertise
between Lesotho and RSA.
The LMP project is said to illustrate that changes in required legislation should be in place before
negotiations or that a condition of Board presentation should be that parallel financing should be secured
throughout project implementation. The current project requires only a minor change in legislation, which
concerns the SNP. Realistically, this could be in place at the stage of effectiveness. Parallel financing from
UINDP is already operational, but serves mainly to support geographically separate areas of conservation.
This is also the case for the AfDB financing under preparation. Hence, the success of this project is not
strictly tied to those efforts, but will be strengthened by these projects.
Conservation programs require a long-term time horizon. The current project stretches over five years, but
aims to build sustainable structures that are financially viable through income-generating nature-based
tourism, and substantial investments in training of staff and community members, and investment in
planning and basic infrastructure over the long run. The ICR argues that project suspension or
r estructuring should be used more readily when project implementation problems drag on. This lesson can
only apply in an implementation situation, and will have to be assessed if and when such problems occur.
The Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP) has initiated community-based conservation schemes in
four small areas in the watershed supplying the water for export to South Africa. This is the aspect of the
l HWP that is of most direct relevance to the current initiative. A consulting company, Earthplan, manages
the implementation of the conservation program. The preparation mission visited these sites and reviewed
the experience so far. Progress in terms of community involvement, area and initial construction of tourism
infrastructure is quite impressive. However, the Earthplan involvement and LHWP funding is scheduled to
terminate during 2000. A new "institutional home" for the selected areas must be found. The Highlands
Natural Resources and Rural Income Enhancement Project prepared by the African Development Bank will
take on that challenge.
The Agricultural Policy and Capacity Building Project in Lesotho became effective only in July 1999
and it would therefore be premature to draw any major conclusions. It is noted, however, that domestic
political turmoil and difficulties in donor coordination have delayed the project. However, no other donor
tunding is critical for successful implementation of the Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier Conservation and
Development project.
The EU-funded Drakensberg-Maloti Conservation Program in Lesotho is a preparatory study,
undertaken primarily by two consultants (Team Leader and Community Development Specialist) working
in Lesotho for a period of 18 months. The Team Leader of this program has been co-opted by the Steering
Committee for the current project preparation, in order to ensure full collaboration. Progress reports are
also shared on a continuous basis with this program. Major lessons so far are that it takes considerable
time and care to develop good community relations. Considerable time and resources have already been
invested already in the preparatory phase of this project to consult communities. Project design also allows
for a strong emphasis on community involvement.
The UNDP-funded Conserving Mountain Biodiversity in Southern Lesotho has recently started. The
long-term program objective is to ensure the conservation and sustainable utilization of unique alpine and
montane landscapes in Lesotho. There are two immediate objectives. First, to establish a planned and
- 22 -



rational network of small protected areas which adequately protects the full range of Lesotho's mountain
biodiversity. Second, to create an environment supportive of improved resource management systems such
that the rate of biodiversity loss outside of formal PAs is reduced. About $1 million of the UNDP-GEF
funds of the program are earmarked for PAs and related activities in the southern part of Lesotho, i.e. in
an area that is separate from the one included in the study area of this project. The remaining
approximately $1.5 million is set aside for the creation of a "supportive environment." This entails a policy
review, economic valuation of biodiversity studies, support to RMAs, building of community capacity and
institutional support to conservation. The program coordinator is based at MEGYA, and regularly attends
the Steering Committee meetings for the current project. UNDP and its project staff have been consulted in
the preparation of this project, and it is agreed that the two initiatives are complementary. The current
project will focus on different geographical areas, and add a considerable transfrontier aspect which is
virtually absent in the UNDP project. Recruitment of key staff has been slow in this project. Hence, the
current project contains explicit conditionality with respect to early recruitment of key staff.
The Highlands Natural Resources and Rural Income Enhancement Project: This project is mainly
funded by the African Development Bank (AfDB). The area of intervention coincides with Phase IA and
lB of the LHDA. The objective of the project is to generate revenue at the grass roots level, for private
enterprises as well as for the central government to alleviate poverty, while protecting the environment.
The project is envisaged to contain five components (i) conservation and natural resource management, (ii)
ecotourism development, (iii) rural enterprise development, (iv) institutional strengthening and (v) rual
infrastructure. The latter is particularly focused on LHDA, private sector interests, the Lesotho Tourist
Board and the Ministry of Tourism. Total project cost is in the order of $8.4 million, with a five-year
implementation period, starting late-2000. LHDA is the proposed overall project executing and
coordination agency. The proposed Steering Committee includes a representative of MEGYA. The clearly
specified geographical and institutional focus of this project facilitates coordination with the current
project. The project was approved by AfDB in September, 2000.
In South Africa, the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project has been under successful
implementation since June 1998. It has pioneered the use of "emerging contractors" recruited from
previously disadvantaged areas in Cape Town. The contractors have been given training in group
leadership, accounting and management. Gradually, they have assumed a more independent role as
competitive bidders for conservation activities. This model will also be considered in the current project.
Technical methods for clearing of alien invading species may also be of use in the Maloti-Drakensberg
area, as are also lessons learned from the Working for Water Project. The need for close attention to
procurement training and management is a lesson that will impact the design of the current project.
A tourism study was launched in 1999 in South Africa: Nature Tourism's Contribution to Economic
Development and Conservation Finance. The purpose of this research is to develop a general sectoral
multi-market analytic framework that clarifies the principal direct and indirect linkages between the
economic, environmental, social and policy variables involved in nature tourism. The model will respond
to the three key issues, namely: (i) the sustainability of resource use, (ii) the relative benefits from and
interactions among multiple users, and (iii) the roles of the public and private sectors in nature-tourism
activities. Four types of empirical studies will be undertaken in close collaboration with the KwaZulu-Natal
Nature Conservation Service and with the support of the KwaZulu-Natal Tourism Authority: (i) Demand
studies; (ii) Producer survey; (iii) Ecological study and Construction of the Social Accounting Matrix. The
demand and supply analyses enable an assessment of how changes in policy variables result in changes in
the various tourism product markets. These changes will be broken down by region (local, provincial and
national). While results from this study will not be forthcoming in time to directly influence the preparation
of the project, its results could influence the implementation.
- 23 -



4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The Drakensberg-Maloti Mountain Conservation Program was initiated in 1982 as a collaborative effort
between the two countries. Supervised by an Intergovernmental Liaison Committee, the program was
largely funded by South Africa through the National Department of Forestry, the Natal Parks Board, with
contributions of expertise and logistical support from Lesotho. It continued until 1993 and entered a new
phase with the advent of democratic government in RSA. The KZNNCB and the National Environment
Secretariat (now within the Ministry of Environment, Gender & Youth Affairs, MEGYA) of Lesotho have
been interacting with a range of role-players to maintain the initial momentum of the project, and to secure
further funding for the work required.
This collaborative effort took an important step forward in a workshop held at Giants Castle in September
1997. This workshop gathered representatives from the Government of Lesotho, Natal Parks Board and
other stakeholders to review the program of collaboration in this area, and its strategic direction. This
resulted in a declaration from the participants to: (i) endorse the concept of a transfrontier conservation and
development area; (ii) recommend to the respective governments that they support the initiative; (iii)
establish a joint coordinating unit; and (iv) seek the necessary funds.
The project concept has also been formally endorsed by the GEF Focal Point in Lesotho: Mr. Bore
Motsamai, Principal Secretary of MEGYA (October 16, 1998). The PCD submission to GEF was
endorsed by the samne focal point on February 1, 2000. The preparatory activities were supported by
in-kind contributions (offices, staff time, and supplies) from MEGYA.
Similarly, the project concept was formally endorsed by the GEF Focal Point in South Africa: Dr. Francois
Hanekom, Deputy Director-General of the National Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism
(letter, November 3, 1998) and re-endorsed by Dr. Patrick Fitzgerald (letter, October 25, 1999),
Director-General of National DEAT. The GEF submission of the PCD was endorsed by Dr. Crispian
Olver, DG of National DEAT and current GEF Focal Point, on February 1, 2000. The preparatory
activities were supported by in-kind contributions (offices, staff time, and supplies) and a considerable
financial advance from KZN-NCB to cover consultant studies necessary for the preparation of the project.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
While there is commitment on both sides of the border, there is clearly a lack of financial resources to
enable coordination and to undertake essential investment. The long-term sustainability of this area must
rest on private and communal financial viability and sound public management supported by public
revenue. To achieve a higher degree of protection of biodiversity, and to harness the ecotourism potential,
a period of investment in managerial capacity, planning, and infrastructure is necessary.
In addition to funding, the Bank can offer its experience of similar projects elsewhere. A number of them
have offered insight into adequate design and implementation of conservation objectives, in tandem with
development efforts, all based on community participation.
Finally, the Bank's GEF support serves to complement well the ongoing UNDP-sponsored GEF activities in
southern Lesotho, and the AfDB-financed support to nature-based tourism development.
- 24 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Alnex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
Other:
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The financial management capacity of relevant institutions has been assessed through a separate Financial
Management Assessment Mission to both countries (October, 1999). Draft Financial Management Plans
for both countries were elaborated at appraisal (January 2000). Agreement was reached in principle during
appraisal on the proposed Financial Management Action Plan for Lesotho and its embedded conditions.
Most importantly, MEGYA needs to install necessary financial management and procurement capacity to
adequately implement the project.
In RSA, the Financial Management Mission observed that the financial management systems operated by
the Offices of the National and Provincial Accountants General appear to produce meaningful interim and
final financial statements on a timely basis. Internal control procedures appear to be good and are
documented in a Financial Handbook. The Office of the Auditor General, a member of the International
Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI), is recognized as being a capable and independent
Supreme Audit Institution (SAI). It is a well-respected Institution among members of the accountancy
profession. The KZNNCB' financial management framework seems to be well established under
competent leadership. It appears that either of the accounting systems reviewed is likely to provide a
suitable basis for introducing a PMR Method of disbursement.
Fiscal Impact:
From a national budget perspective, the GEF grant does not entail any repayments, while the investments
that it allows will generate modest tax revenues. However, the small enterprises that will most directly
benefit from the project will not be significant contributors to the government's revenue stream. Some
increased revenue will accrue from the tax levied on goods that increasing numbers of foreign visitors will
buy. Of more importance to consider are the implications for the budgets of conservation agencies that will
be responsible for maintaining the investments that the project will allow.
In Lesotho, the investment in works of about $1.4 million over five years primarily concerns rehabilitation
of wetlands, paths and service roads that have degenerated due to past neglect, and some alien plant
control. Based on rule of thumb of 3% annual maintenance cost, this implies a fiscal burden of about
$20-25 thousand p.a. The other main component concems Sehlabathebe National Park (SNP) and includes
fencing, an environmental education center, upgraded staff accommodation, an entrance gate with reception
and shop, and so forth. Based on a rule of thumb of 5% maintenance costs p.a., this implies a fiscal burden
of about $30-35 thousand. Investment in goods such as cars, PCs, other office equipment, GIS, etc.
amounts to about $450 thousand over the project's lifetime. At a rate of 5% it implies a budgetary burden
of about $25 thousand p.a. for maintenance. Adding running expenses, of about $50 thousand p.a. gives a
total of close to $75 thousand for maintenance and running of goods. The sum total for Lesotho for works
and goods can thus be estimated to in the order of $130 thousand p.a. This should be compared to what
Lesotho currently spends on conservation-related activities, i.e. about $220 thousand p.a.
- 25 -



Hence, four types of measures must be put in place to mitigate this burden (i) revenue-generating activities,
and (ii) mobilizing new domestic resources, (iii) mobilizing new external funding, and (iv) if necessary
dismantle some of the investments. Firstly, in terms of generating more revenue, it is apparent that the
SNP represents a dormant asset that could bring considerable revenues. Assuming that the day visitor rate
could be brought up to 20 per day by year 5, each paying $2 in entrance fee, and that the number of night
visitors could be brought up to 10 per night on average, each paying $10, the revenue would amount to
more than $50 thousand p.a.. Other conservation areas could also begin to generate revenue, albeit at a
lower rate than SNP. Associated spending on crafts, local guides, horses for excursions, pack lunches and
so on would go straight to communities, and have almost no fiscal impact.
Secondly, if only a fraction of the revenue pool available from the Highlands Water Project was devoted to
conservation purposes, the maintenance bill would be easily met. The annual royalty through this project is
currently estimated at $40 million. The UNDP-supported conservation project in Lesotho has identified the
establishment of a royalty-based trust fund as one potential source of sustainable income for conservation
purposes.
Thirdly, the prospect of attracting additional donor funding appears promising. Many bilateral donors
show a propensity to support environmental projects if a viable institutional basis can be demonstrated.
The current project will equip Lesotho with an enhanced absorptive capacity, and increased ability to
market biodiversity-based activities more effectively to other donors in the future.
Finally, to the extent that increased revenue and existing resources would not suffice to maintain completely
the investment, some of it would have to be shed. After 3-5 years, the vehicles would still have a
second-hand value, as would some of the office equipment. In the Lesotho case, it may not be realistic to
think that all staff and their equipment could be maintained after the project's closing, but the investment in
planning and compensation for past neglect would still be worthwhile. The staff maintained during the
investment phase will have left behind trained counterparts at the national and local level that will be able
to carry on the work at lower cost.
For South Africa, the fiscal impact would be negligible. While the level of investment in works and goods
through the project are similar in magnitude to those in Lesotho, the annual fiscal burden would be
negligible in comparison to the more than $3 million that is already spent p.a. on co-financing activities,
most of this in KwaZulu-Natal.
3. Technical:
Methods used for clearing of alien invading plant species similar to those used in the Working for Water
Program and in the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Project will be taken as a point of departure for the alien
clearing sub-component in this project.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
In Lesotho, Ministries of Environment, Agriculture and Tourism will execute the project, under the
leadership of MEGYA. In RSA, the KZNNCB in KwaZulu-Natal, DEAT in the Free State, DEAET in
Eastern Cape, and SANParks in the Golden Gate Highlands National Park are the executing agencies.
- 26 -



Other ministries, both national and provincial, may also be involved in project implementation, and overall
leadership will be provided by the National Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism. The DG of
DEAT will be supported on a part-time basis by a long-term consultant in strategic project area
development and project oversight.
4.2 Project management:
Overall coordination will be managed by the bilateral Steering Committee with high-level representatives
from key institutions in each country. A technical level Project Coordination Committee (PCC) will oversee
the domestic implementation. All executing agencies, as well as other key stakeholder institutions will be
represented on the PCCs. The Project Coordinators will serve as the Secretaries of these Committees. The
coordinators will be supported by adequate financial, procurement, and information management expertise,
and secretarial services. Agreement in principle on its terms of reference was achieved at appraisal. A
signed MoU between Lesotho and South Africa, acceptable to the World Bank, is a condition of
effectiveness.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A Procurement Assessment was undertaken before appraisal. The results are summarized in Annex 6
4.4 Financial management issues:
A Financial Management Assessment was undertaken during project preparation. A Financial
Management Plan was prepared for both countries. This is summarized in Annex 15.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
EA in Lesotho will receive its formal legal backing once the Environment Bill 1998 has been passed by
Parliament. This is expected in the next few months, as the Bill has already received Cabinet approval.
The Bill prescribes a detailed procedure for Environmental Assessment, and defines the types of activities
for which an EA is required. This Schedule includes the creation of national parks and game reserves,
commercial exploitation of natural fauna and flora, establishment of natural heritage sites, policies for
management of ecosystems, especially by use of fire, and any government policy on the use of natural
resources.
In anticipation of the passing of legislation, guidelines for EA applied on a voluntary basis already exist:
EIA Guidelines for Lesotho (1997). The preparation mission reviewed these guidelines and found them
adequate for the purposes of this project. By agreement with MEGYA, the project is committed to follow
the letter and spirit of the guidelines, even in the absence of binding legislation.
The project will be implemented under the leadership of MEGYA, an organization whose main objectives
include environmental protection. The other major institutional stakeholders include the Conservation
Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, whose mandate it is to manage Protected Areas in Lesotho, the
Range Management Division of the same Ministry, and the Ministry of Tourism, for which the
development of nature-based tourism is a key objective.
The legal context is that environmental assessment in South Africa is govemed by regulations under the
Environmental Conservation Act. Any development in the region concemed will be subject to these
regulations which make provision for authorization by the Minister of Environmental Affairs and Tourism.
- 27 -



The provincial departments are responsible for the administration of these regulations. This requires the
scoping of environmental impacts, a full public participation procedure and the preparation of specialist
studies. The provincial department makes a recommendation to the National Minister for any development
in a Protected Area. The KZNNCB is subject to the KZN Provincial Department of Environmental
Affairs.
Institutionally, the project will be implemented by organizations whose main objectives concem nature
conservation. Hence, the environmental objectives of the project are not in danger of being compromised
due to conflict of interest type of situations within the implementing bodies. Significant parts of the project
implementation area are already under PA management status. In RSA, the major area of implementation
falls under KZNNCB, which as an organization has an outstanding record of successful nature
conservation. Several on-site visits by the project team and careful study of annual and special reports, and
meetings with key officials have thoroughly established this fact. Similarly, SANParks, which only
manages a minor portion of the project area (Golden Gate Highlands National Park), is well known for its
conservation track record. There is also direct experience of successful implementation of a GEF project
through SANParks: The Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project.
In both countries, project implementation is also associated with clear environmental benefits:
*   Significant biodiversity assets will be carefully assessed, mapped and awarded better protective
status under active management;
*   Communities concerned will be consulted and their active collaboration sought;
*   The capacity of both communities and implementing agency staff for effective environmental
management will be enhanced;
*   Visitor pressure will be more effectively channeled through upgraded tracks and paths, information
to visitors about appropriate behaviors enhanced, and enforcement of environmental regulation
enhanced;
*   Eradication of alien invading species will contribute to preserve the indigenous flora and contribute
to a more attractive landscape.
A systematic search for environmentally negative impacts related to the project yields few results and all of
them can be appropriately mitigated:
*   Potential erosion of hillsides due to removal of vegetation. Limiting removal areas in size, leaving
litter for ground cover, and generally building upon best practice from the Working for Water
Project and the implementation of the Cape Peninsula Project will mitigate this.
*   Potential health damage related to application of herbicides. In RSA, application of herbicides can
only be carried out by staff who have received adequate training and are licensed for the task.
Proper protective clothing and supervision will be supplied by the project.
*   Potential damage to the natural environment from herbicides. The use of herbicides is strictly
regulated in RSA, and only a few registered and well-tested options exist. The amount of herbicide
applied will be very limited, and application will be done directly onto stems, not using aerial and
seldom knapsack ground-spraying techniques. Herbicides will be chosen that break down rapidly
after use.
*   Increased visitor pressures leading to littering, erosion of tracks, suppressing of indigenous flora,
illegal hunting of wildlife, etc. Planning carefully for the development of Protected Areas and
- 28 -



specific sites will mitigate this. This is a major reason behind the high level of attention given to
the planning stages in the project. Furthermore, some of the resources of the project are
specifically destined to upgrade the infrastructure to better handle visitor pressure. Finally, it
should be recalled that visitor pressure per unit area is expected to remain within reasonable limits
even with upgrades of the area's attractions. The project area is not, and is not likely to be, the
scene of mass tourism.
It should be pointed out that removal of alien invading vegetation will be a marginal activity in Lesotho, as
opposed to South Africa, where this features strongly. Vegetative growth is less vigorous on the highly
elevated Lesotho side, and the few trees that sprout often fall prey to browsing livestock or the firewood
needs of the limited human population that is active in the area. Hence, erosion associated with felling of
trees, health and natural hazards associated with unwise use of herbicides and so forth, are not concerns in
Lesotho.
The reservation of some areas for biodiversity purposes could possibly lead to increased grazing pressure
in other areas. Firstly, the areas concerned will be small in relation to the overall grazing areas in the
region. Secondly, this should be seen in the context of the establishment of Grazing Management
Associations, associated introduction of rotational grazing, and upgrading of existing pastures and
livestock. Implications for surrounding areas will be carefully considered in collaboration with the Range
Management Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, and in agreement with concerned local communities
and livestock managers. Care will be taken for the appropriate selection of indigenous species in any
fodder enhancement program. Grazing restrictions will only work if they have the full support of affected
communities. The protected areas established in association with LHDA, in the LHWP phase lA-project
area illustrate that such agreements are possible to reach. Attention will be paid to the need for maintaining
the genetic diversity of the livestock herd, to the extent that new breeds of stock might be promoted.
In conclusion, the environmental benefits of the project are clear and tangible. In terms of managing any
negative impacts, the legal, institutional and managerial basis is well established.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
As the nature of the project is to enhance management of the environment, it is not applicable to speak of a
separate EMP in this case.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: EA work was integrated in several
consultant reports that were finalized in
December, 1999. See Annex 8.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Please refer to section 6 below and to Annex 11 for details on the consultative process.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Monitoring the environment is at the core of the project's indicators as reflected in Annex 1.
- 29 -



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Community involvement during the preparation has been extensive and is documented further in Section 7
and in Annex 11. KZNNCB already has considerable experience in this regard, and the experience of
LHDA and prior rangeland management project has provided encouraging evidence of such models. A
major theme of this project is community involvement, and considerable resources are requested to
underpin this vital aspect of the project.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
A critical factor for the success of the project is that it involves communities and is supported by them. The
participation of communities was therefore already a top priolity during the initial planning phase of the
project. The details of the approach adopted are given in Annex 11.
As part of the project preparation process, social assessments were commissioned for both South Africa
and Lesotho to assess project impacts and to map out the processes for community involvement (Annex
11). The main factors contributing to loss in biodiversity are a) overgrazing of communal lands, b) out of
season buming regimes and uncontrolled wild fires, c) increased cultivation on steep slopes of the
mountain, d) livestock trespassing across borders, and e) the invasion of alien plant species. Project
components that will address some of these root causes (e.g. revitalization of range management areas,
clarification of customary land tenure and training programs to support community conservation bodies)
are outlined in Annex 12.
a: Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups (see Annex 11 for details):
Lesotho:
The social assessment in Lesotho targeted four districts Qacha's Nek, Thaba Tseka, Mokhotlong and Butha
Buthe A sample of 36 randomly selected villages and 790 respondents were included in the participatory
land use planning surveys.
In addition, the National Environment Secretariat of Lesotho commissioned a participatory rural appraisal
of six villages in the Mokhotlong District to determine the perspectives of the people in conserving the
ecosystem of the area.
South Africa
The consultants charged with social assessment in South Africa adopted a different approach to that used
in Lesotho. They had a far more diverse area and a much smaller budget and chose to base their
conclusions on existing studies. Nevertheless, several community groups in each of the three provinces
were consulted.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
- 30 -



6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7,  Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                      Applica.ility
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                      * Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                       * Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                         0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)      0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)            0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by thie project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The EA safeguard applies as this is classified as a Category B project. However, as the nature of the
project is to enhance environmental quality in the project area, the entire project could be seen as an EA
and EMP that ensures compliance. This is the main management objective of the institutional structures
that the project will establish. The safeguard for natural habitats is applicable only in the sense that such
areas will be enhanced by the project, through measures to decrease the grazing pressure and manage
visitor flows in sensitive areas. The forestry safeguard is concerned only insofar as clearing of alien
invasive tree species will be undertaken as part of the project. This does not involve logging or the
purchase of logging equipment for use in primary tropical moist forest, or even any area that would
generally be referred to as "forest" rather than "woodland" or "brushland." Local stakeholders will be
identified and consulted in each area where alien clearing operations will be taking place.
The safeguard for Pest Management is applicable insofar as limited amounts of herbicide will be used to
prevent certain species from coppicing after the initial clearing. This will be applied directly to the stump
of the tree or coppice foliage, not by spraying of large areas. South Africa's regulatory and institutional
capacity for safe, effective and environmentally sound pest management has been found satisfactory. To
the extent that herbicides will be used at all in Lesotho, their use will be governed by the similar
considerations.
The impact on cultural property was assessed during appraisal. It was found that the project will impact
positively on this heritage, as it will assist in its identification, preservation and utilization as part of the
efforts to develop nature-based tourism. With respect to indigenous people, it was found that most
stakeholders in the project area are AmaZulu, Basotho, AmaXhosa, and Griqua, and could be considered
- 31 -



"indigenous." They will be fully involved in the implementation of the project, as community involvement
is a major component. The San population no longer occupies the areas concerned. In Lesotho, the local
stakeholders belong to the same group as nearly everyone in that country: the Basotho. In terms of
vulnerability, no particular group was identified that could suffer hardship as a result of the project.
With respect to involuntary resettlement, this is not foreseen to be a result of the project. If, contrary to
expectations, this would take place in support of the project's objectives, the World Bank's safeguard would
apply, and a resettlement plan would have to be submitted to the Bank for approval. The project does not
involve the construction of dams, nor will it impact international waterways or involve any disputed
territory.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Firstly, the project will bring new resources to address what are currently unsustainable practices.
Secondly, the transfer of capacity is built into the project, with heavy emphasis on training and institution
building. Thirdly, the domestic resource commitment to environmental management is actually increasing
in Lesotho, which is the country of most concern in this respect. Finally, not all activities need to be
sustained at full cost level, as some items represent investments that only require small maintenance costs
or marginal upgrades. These points are elaborated below.
The project will enhance ecological sustainability by identifying important biodiversity areas, and work
towards the appropriate level of protection status. Past neglect in controlling erosion along roads, trails
and paths in sensitive areas will be remedied, and invading alien species will be suppressed to promote the
indigenous flora and associated fauna. The project will also enhance social sustainability through its
emphasis on community-centered capacity building. Building good community relations between
conservation staff and community members, and illustrating in tangible forms the benefits of nature
conservation will influence the incentives and mindsets of local people. Experience in both countries shows
that it can be done.
Institutional sustainability will be enhanced through investment in legal platforms for nature protection,
establishment of community conservation fora, staff training, participatory planning processes, basic
buildings and equipment. While the latter requires some maintenance, the expenditure level will be much
lower than during the investment phase. This has been discussed in some detail above in Section E.2.
Given the already considerable financial revenues from nature-based tourism in RSA, and the prospect of
raising them considerably in Lesotho, this is an acceptable burden. Moreover, once transfrontier
collaboration has been well established, Lesotho can enjoy the benefits of having good access to training
facilities and the impressive experience in conservation management available across the border.
Through investment in ecological, social and institutional sustainability financial sustainability becomes a
possibility. The potential of nature-based tourism can be harnessed. The opportunity to ensure
sustainability comes from tapping the source of large tourism-flows adjacent to Lesotho, and encouraging a
portion of those visitors to venture a bit further by enhancing the "package" of experiences offered, and by
marketing this jointly with efforts made in South Africa. Entrance fees to PAs, camping fees and
community levies will be instituted and will contribute to financial sustainability. The establishment of an
overall conservation management fund is being investigated by the UNDP-funded conservation project in
Lesotho. This would build on the considerable royalties that accrue from the LHWP, and could also
contribute to the financial sustainability of conservation in Lesotho.
- 32 -



In South Africa, there are already well developed institutions for nature conservation, but their short-term
sustainability is undermined by severe cuts in the provision of subsidies from central and provincial
governments. This tendency can be expected to continue, given the changes in political priorities that
necessitate urgent investment in the provision of social services to previously disadvantaged communities.
This political reality has forced the re-thinking of conservation management in South Africa, and an
opening up of collaboration with the private sector, including surrounding communities, to a new degree.
The project will assist in establishing such partnerships, on the basis of financial sustainability. Private
sector capacity is already strong in RSA, and there is high interest in investing in nature-based tourism
development. The exceptional biodiversity assets in RSA, and strong technical and managerial skills
available in the country, bode well for the future sustainability of nature conservation.
The investments made in staff and consultant services are not necessary to maintain at the same level after
five years of implementation. The same applies to some of the equipment (e.g. computers) hat the project
will fund. Other items equipment will be gradually phased out as they become obsolete, and the
strengthened institutions will have to replace them, but probably to a lesser extent. Plans developed and
agreed on should have a considerable lifetime beyond the project and could be implemented with fewer
staff.
One could also approach the issue of sustainability from another angle: without interventions like the
current project, development would continue on a non-sustainable path.
- 33 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column- of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Bilateral and domestic administrative    M         1. Recruitment of SC and PCCs with wide
dissonance                                            representation
2. Disagreement on conservation             M         2. Thorough technical surveys as basis for
priorities among stakeholders                         priorities; and consultative process
3. Legal and administrative process         H         3. Continued efforts to enhance the dialogue
stalled                                               with concemed parties
4. Disagreement on area designations         S        4. Consultative process with local stakeholders
and planning authorities
5. Ineffective conservation management      M         5. Capacity building & local ownership
6. Community participation ineffective      S         6. Consultative process based on local
experience
7. Main stakeholders disagree on benefits   M         7. Strong communication program
of project
8. Ineffective leadership for domestic and  M         8. Strict and consultative selection procedure
intemational coordination
9. Discontinued constructive bilateral      N         9. Steering Committee leadership
relationships
From Components to Outputs
I. Disagreement on data storage, access     N         1. Demonstration of joint benefits
to information, supply of data and surveys
2. Incompatible regional land-use plans     M         2. Consultation with relevant agencies
3. Skilled staff not available for          N         3. Adequate marketing
employment
4. Alien control technically ineffective    N         4. Building on best practice from Cape
Peninsula Project and Working for Water
projects
5. Lack of acceptance of effective grazing  S         5. Community dialogue and mobilization
protection and anti-poaching measures
6. Benefit transfer to community            M         6. Strict financial procedures
ineffective
7. Non-acceptance of institutional models   N         7. Dialogue to achieve local ownership
8. Lack of interest in participating in     N         8. Adequate marketing
training
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The determination of financial allocations among executing agencies may become controversial, but is best
resolved within the framework of national PCCs and the bilateral SC.
- 34 -



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   RSA and Lesotho have executed the MOU
*   RSA has adopted the PIP, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank
*   The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the Recipient and KZNNCB
*   KZNNCB has adopted a financial management and accounting system and Financial Procedures
Manual, acceptable to the Bank
*   KZNNCB has appointed: (i) the Project Accountant; (ii) the project Coordinator; and (iii) the auditors
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) to the Grant Agreement, all in accordance to the provisions of Section II
of Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Dated Covenants:
*   The Project Accountant in place not later than 2 months prior to effectiveness.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Z 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Acceptable Project Implementation Plan. Agreed MoU between RSA and Lesotho. Agreed Project
Agreement (RSA). Agreed TORs for the PCCs. Relevant staff appointments for the PCUs and financial
management arrangements. SNP National Park Proclamation (Lesotho).
- 35 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
tJan P~ Bojo                      Agi KissFayez S. OmaBrK
ta~   Leader \Sector Mana er/Director                                Country Manager/Director
- 36 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SOUTH AFRICA: Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier Conservation and Development Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
l. Ensure environmental   1. Red Data classification    1. National State of the  1. Poor benefit the most from
sustainability                                       Environment Report        better environmental quality
2. Promote growth and higher 2. Real GDP growth and  2. National Accounts: Real  2. Poor people gain
employment                labor force growth         GDP growth and labor force  employment
data
3. Enhance sub-regional   3. Export - import data    3. Trade statistics       3. Poor regions benefit
integration
GEF Operational Program:
Global Objective:         Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
GEF Global Objectives:    Endemic species maintained.  State of the Environment  Sustained financing and
To conserve globally      Viable populations of      Reports. Survey reports. Red  political commitment
significant biodiversity in the  threatened species.  Data Reports
Maloti-Drakensberg        Improvement in terms of
mountains within a        IUCN categories of threat
transfrontier conservation and
development area framework
Stakeholders work together to Protected area system in  Project progress reports,  Bilateral political harmony;
realize nature-based      place, benefit transfers in $   supervision missions  Continued growth in
development opportunities.   terms, number of people                           international tourism to
employed as a result of project                      Southern Africa;
increased, number and size of                        Stable energy prices
entrepreneurial activities in
response to project initiatives
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Project Management and   1. Bilateral Memorandum of  1. Minutes of meetings of    I. Bilateral and domestic
Transfrontier Collaboration   Understanding. Steering  Steering Committee, PCCs,   administrative coherence
Committee established.    and PCUs.
Project Coordination      Minutes of quarterly FMC
Committees, Project       meetings to consider the
Coordination Units and    PMRs.
Financial Management      Project Annual Reports.
Committees constituted.   Disbursement Reports.
Recruitment of senior PCU    Audit Reports.
Staff. Timely delivery of  Evaluation Reports,
- 37 -



Project milestones.       Supervision Missions,
Endorsement of Cash       Mid-term Review.
Forecasts. Financial
Management System in place.
2. Conservation Planning   2. Completed biodiversity    2. Survey Reports. Protected  2. Compatible regional
surveys in priority areas.  area maps. Local knowledge  land-use plans. Local
New PAs identified and    on biodiversity documented   agreement to supply data and
delineated. Biodiversity  through participatory      allow surveys.
conservation program      involvement
finalized and implemented
3. Protected Area          3. Revised Development and  3. Development, Zonation,   3. Agreement on conservation
Management Planning        Zonation plans for PAs.   Management and Business    priorities among stakeholders.
Conducted                 Initiated process of       plan documents             Agreement on area
development and zonation                             designations, and effective
planning for the identified                          conservation management
proposed conservation areas.                         institutions in place.
Completed Management and                             Competent technical
Business plans for PAs, using                        leadership.
a participatory approach.
4. Conservation Management 4. No populations of       4. Implementation Agency   4. Effective conservation
in PAs                     threatened species in decline, Reports. Patrol logs, visitor   management institutions in
extent of alien plant invasion  statistics per area, rescue  place. Competent technical
reduced significantly,    reports, stock counts.     leadership supported with
sustainable range         Supervision missions       adequate local representation.
management in key areas.
Cultural sites protected.
Significant rehabilitation of
eroded paths and tracks.
Effective anti-poaching,
visitor management and
rescue service, prevention of
illegal grazing,
institutionalized social
fencing
5. Conservation Management 5. Improved range condition  5. Results of vegetation  5. Agreement on area
ex-PAs                     and basal cover in focus areas. surveys undertaken every two  designations, and effective
Education program on      years in areas of intervention. conservation management
grazing management        Education program report.   institutions in place.
implemented.              Resource management plan   Competent technical
Resource management plan   and survey of implementation  leadership supported with
for improved range condition                         adequate local representation.
and animal productivity in
place within two years of
project implementation.
6. Community Involvement  6. Recruitment of I social    6. Recruitment records.  6. Community interest.
ecologist/country. Creation of Existence of community  Political stability.
3 community conservation    centers. Forum records.
centers by end of year 2.  Training programs and
- 38 -



Recruitment of community    evaluation reviews
extension officers (EOs) for
the centers as completed. Not
less than 10 community
facilitators per community
center, before the end of year
2. Preparation of training
materials, visual aids within
12 months. Annual training of
trainers' workshops for EOs
and community facilitators.
Workshops with at least 50
community members p.a. At
least I training workshop for
community leaders and
livestock owners p.a.
7. Nature-based Tourism    7. At least 200 people      7. Local tourism plans,     7. Communities and private
employed in local          records from workshops.     commercial sector derive
nature-based tourism       Trail maps & verification   benefits from investment in
enterprises by end of year 2   walks/drives. Nursery visits   nature-based tourism and
and additions of 300 p.a.  and accounts. Local         respond well to the enabling
Nursery output. Local tourism  employment surveys. Visitor  environment.
plans for community areas    counts and client feedback
finalized. At least 100    surveys.
community entrepreneurs and
10 civil servants trained each
year starting in year 2.
No. of km hiking & 4x4 trails
installed p.a. At least 2 village
nurseries installed by end of
year 2, with additions of 2
every year thereafter.
8. Institutional Development 8. Establishment of       8. Community Conservation  8. Agreement about
Community Conservation     Forums documents. Gazetted  institutional models and staff
Forums. Support development establishment of national  interest in training.
of national and local      conservation institution in
institutions for nature    Lesotho. Training programs
conservation and land use    reports.
planning measures in priority
areas. Staff training program
implemented.
- 39 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy: of ObjeCtve           inYicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
1. Project management &    $3.1 Million               1. SC and PCC minutes.    1. Bilateral harmony
transfrontier cooperation:                            PCU Coordinators' progress  Institutional commitment at
Bilateral MoU, PCCs & PCUs                            reports                   national and provincial levels.
with FMCs, GIS capacity                                                          Agreement on storage &
access to information.
2. Conservation planning:    $1.9 Million             2. Strategy Plan          2. Compatible regional
Design of protected area                              Participation Plan. Survey    land-use plans. Local
system. Conceptual                                   reports.                   agreement to supply data and
development planning.                                                            allow surveys.
Participatory planning
Comprehensive biodiversity
surveys. Participatory data
collection
3. Protected area management $1.9 million             3. Strategy documents and    3. Institutional basis
planning                                              progress reports from      established in Lesotho
implementing agencies
4. Strengthening of PA     $18.2 million             4. Conservation Agency     4. Acceptance of effective
management, including alien                           Reports                   grazing protection and
plant control, erosion control,                                                 anti-poaching measures
fire management, security and                                                   and inter-agency support
wildlife management
programs
5. Conservation management $1.7 million               5. Project annual reports  5. Alien eradication and
Addressing threats and                                                          erosion control technically
impacts posed by alien plants,                                                  effective, and community
soil erosion and unsustainable                                                  cooperation in enforcing
range management                                                                agreements.
6. Community conservation   $3.5 million              6. Strategy plan          6. Benefit transfer to
program: Community                                    Extension staff installed.  community effective
conservation centers,                                 Forum agreements.         Local community acceptance
Conservation Forums and                                                         of local forums and programs.
Local Boards
7. Nature-based tourism    $2.0 million              7. Records from training   7. Synergy between the
development: Community                                courses.                   project and other nature-based
training and entrepreneurial                                                    tourism promotion exercises.
development
8. Institutional development  $1.0 million            8. Regulations and bylaws for 8. Agreement on institutional
including comprehensive                               conservation institutions.    reforms and counterpart
nature conservation staff                             Progress reports          funding.
development program
effective.
-40 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SOUTH AFRICA: Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier Conservation and Development
Project
The project has eight interrelated components. Justification for their inclusion is given here, and
supported by the preparatory studies listed in annex 8.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.10 million
The first component is project management and transfrontier cooperation. This component consists of
(i) a bilateral collaboration forum ("Steering Committee"; SC), (ii) coordination offices with full-time
coordination, financial management and procurement staff, (iii) domestic coordination committees with
wide stakeholder representation, (iv) joint working groups for technical work on topics of common interest,
(v) joint workshops to present results and achieve consensus work plans, (vi) a GIS-based Knowledge
Management system served by trained staff, and (vii) joint activities with respect to marketing, booking,
visitor planning, fire protection, rescue service and so forth. In addition, part-time support will be provided
for a long-term consultant to enhance the oversight function of the DG of DEAT, and to strengthen
strategic conservation planning for the project area.
Proposals for improved project management and transfrontier cooperation were derived from several
sources, including the experience of the coordinators of the preparation phase over the past year, the
suggestions of the bilateral steering committee, the workshops which have been held with the various
government agencies in both Lesotho and South Africa, and the suggestions made in the report on legal and
institutional issues prepared by EnAct Intemational (1999). Because of the large number of stakeholders,
both in government and in community-based and non-governmental organizations, the domestic
coordination committees and an extensive communication program using Intemet, radio, newsletters and
community outreach will ensure that stakeholders are informed and involved in project activities.
An essential component is the derivation of an overall strategy for the transfrontier conservation and
development area, a process which was strongly recommended in several of the preparatory studies,
including Richard Davies and Associates (1999), Loxton, Venn and Associates (1999) and ECRA (1999).
In addition, a firm basis for decision-making using information at an appropriate accuracy and resolution
will be provided by enhancing the GIS which has been a product of the preparation phase (Environmap,
1999).
Project Component 2 - US$1.90 million
Conservation planning forms the second component. Annex 13 provides greater detail on the hierarchical
nature of conservation planning from the landscape level to focused business plans for individual protected
area. The preparatory studies generated extensive documentation and data regarding resources in the study
area, including physical, biological, social and economic resources and uses. The project concept is for a
transfrontier conservation and development area, which needs to be planned and zoned to ensure that areas
of global and national biodiversity importance are protected and managed appropriately. This requires that
a vision and strategy are prepared following further stakeholder consultation and with the involvement of
the relevant authorities on both sides of the border. Conceptual proposals for compatible land-use zonation
derived in the preparatory phase need to be negotiated and action plans prepared for implementation. This
implies conservation planning at the landscape level, and is designed to be facilitated by appropriate
professionals with the full involvement of the staff of the respective Ministries and Departments in both
-41 -



countries. At this scale, there is also a need to harnonize, to the greatest degree possible, the approaches
and activities of the five nature conservation management agencies which have a responsibility in parts of
the area, namely the Conservation Division of the Lesotho MoA, South African National Parks, the
KwaZulu-Natal Nature Conservation Board, Eastern Cape DEAT and Free State DEAET.
Deficiencies in data, particularly for biodiversity, were identified in preparation (e.g. CSIR, 1999), and
these will be addressed by focused data collection and further analysis to confirrn priority areas. A
participatory biodiversity monitoring system will also be designed to ensure that data on trends can be
derived for areas across the landscape. Habitat and species data collected under the assessments will
provide the baseline for monitoring activities to determine project impact. Field assistants recruited from
local communities will also be trained to assist in surveying as a precursor to ongoing monitoring of key
components. A core professional support team for biodiversity conservation will be assembled under this
component. The project interventions will support the current process whereby posts for specialized
functions are being established and filled, especially within the Conservation Division of the MoA in
Lesotho, and will complement the competent but thinly stretched staff in the South African agencies. By
building a solid foundation, it will be possible for these agencies to maintain effectiveness beyond the
project lifetime, including, in some cases the continuation of employment of specialist staff, for which
provision is being made in future planning.
The project components will supplement the resources of the nature conservation agencies to eliminate the
backlog of conservation planning, and ensure a sound foundation for further planning and action.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.90 million
Protected Area Planning is the third component. There are two sets of areas where further detailed
planning is required, namely (i) existing protected areas and (ii) proposed conservation areas. Planning is
carried out in a number of phases, beginning with the overall development and zonation plans for each area,
then preparing detailed management programs and finally addressing business planning and sustainability.
These phases are described in more detail under each sub-component below.
Sub-component 3.1   Protected area development planning and zonation
The nature conservation management agencies have been unable to obtain the resources, particularly of
manpower, to complete overall detailed conservation development plans for protected areas. In the
uKhahlamba-Drakensberg Park, the assignment of nature conservation management to the provinces
enabled the consolidation of several separately proclaimed and managed provincial protected areas, state
forest nature reserves and wilderness areas into a single entity. Management was rationalized accordingly,
but a long-outstanding component has been an overall concept development and zonation plan for the park,
which would ensure that protected area development takes place in an orderly way, that management
infrastructure is correctly placed, and to provide a basis for the elaboration of management programs. This
exercise will entail the appraisal of all previous plans, the conduct of workshops with management staff
and with adjacent communities and the drafting of the appropriate maps and documentation. The statutory
requirement for this planning to undergo a public participation process demands expert facilitation.
In other parts of the study area, there are existing protected areas where no overall development planning
and zonation has been conducted, and where there are insufficient skilled staff in the nature conservation
agencies to address the deficit. These include Ongeluksnek and Ntsikeni in the Eastern Cape and
Sterkfontein Nature Reserve in the Free State. The conceptual development plan for Sehlabathebe National
Park requires revision.
- 42 -



Through this process, managers will build an understanding of the vision for the protected areas in the
landscape, and the opportunities and constraints for management. The zonation plan and associated
schedules, which describe the limits of acceptable change, become the basis for all future management and
development activities. It is usually unnecessary to revisit this level of planning at the same detail, because
the recurrent nature of operational management plans ensures adaptation of the conceptual planning and
zonation to emerging circumstances. The intervention will therefore overcome a significant hurdle to
effective conservation management.
Sub-component 3.2   Protected area management planning
The preparation and continual update of protected area management plans is an essential component to
guide the operational management of protected areas in an adaptive way. The protected area management
team including the specialist input of an ecologist and other professionals usually undertakes this exercise.
It is designed to determine the priority management programs for the effective management of the resource
and the activities that occur there, and encompasses:
e   Management to conserve biodiversity
v  Community conservation programs
3   Visitor facilities management
3   Protected area administration (security, infrastructure, conununications etc.)
3   Research and information
Objectives are determined for each within the policy framework and zonation established in 3.1 above.
Management options are detailed and discussed, action plans for implementation are developed, monitoring
programs are devised and implemented and essential research is conducted. This allows the management
team to adaptively implement management programs in pursuit of the protected area objectives and vision.
Once the first version of the management plan is in place, it is the management team that will implement
and adaptively develop the plan further. The preparatory work for developing this project concept
document identified several deficiencies in the existing plans. New areas which are being developed
together with communities will required more extensively facilitated planning processes, once the earlier
consultations have been conducted.
In Lesotho, the SNP Management Plan will be revised and updated, involving both park staff and local
communities. In the identified priority areas, including Phofung-Mont-aux Sources, Senqu Sources, and
Thabana Ntlenyana-Sani Top, the process will be more extensive, beginning with extensive consultation
with stakeholders. As a first step, the areas are likely to be managed as Managed Resource Areas, and
initial management plans will be drafted, with ecological and planning experts working with and being
guided by social ecologists, extension workers and community facilitators.
In the RSA, deficiencies in management plans for component parts of the uKhahlamba-Drakensberg Park
will be addressed, and in accordance with the statutory requirements, with the full involvement of Local
Boards which are being established. New management plans will be prepared for Ongeluksnek, Ntsikeni
and Sterkfontein Nature Reserves. In the priority areas of QwaQwa and the Upper Thukela, a similar
process to that envisaged for Lesotho will be adopted, involving local communities, community-based
organizations and some active NGOs and other organizations.
- 43 -



Sub-component 3.3   Protected area business planning
Nature conservation management agencies have traditionally managed areas on the basis of budgets derived
from government subsidies. Whereas, it is likely that subsidies will continue to provide core funding for
biodiversity management, there is an increasing requirement to develop alternative sources of conservation
funding, preferably through the sustainable use of the resource base and the leverage of funds in other
ways. It is therefore essential that business plans be prepared for each managed area. Business plans also
encompass the human resources and organizational systems that need to be in place to ensure effective
management. Areas of interest for this activity include the need to optimize the retums from the use of the
resource base e.g. by tourists, to make contributions to both biodiversity management and community
development.
A key strategy adopted in KwaZulu-Natal has been to ensure that nature-based tourism generates sufficient
revenues for this, but this has also required the development of appropriate business models to incorporate
private sector investment and community equity in developments based in or adjacent to protected areas.
The business-planning component of the project activities will investigate all possible options for
sustainable financing, and provide a basis for the effective management of these resources to meet
performance targets. In the context of new protected areas, it will also be necessary to demonstrate that the
option of conservation/nature-based tourism will generate greater benefits than the current subsistence
land-uses.
For Sehlabathebe National Park, it will be necessary to fulfill promises that the protected area will generate
greater benefits than the former use of the rangeland for cattle production. Business planning expertise will
be required to supplement the conservation planning and management teams to achieve this greater level of
sophistication in planning. This component is likely to develop many options that have the potential to
inform nature conservation management, community involvement and tourism planning in other protected
areas in the Southern African sub-region and beyond.
The planning will be conducted by the core biodiversity conservation support team (Component 2) together
with a core planning support team established under this component, and with the assistance of the social
ecologists, community extension workers and facilitators (see Component 6). In South Africa, it is
envisaged that one team will be established and based near the Upper Thukela component of the study area.
To ensure greatest interaction and effectiveness, the biodiversity conservation and planning support teams
(I ecologist, I planner, I technician) will be based together with the Social Ecologist.
In Lesotho, it is envisaged that two teams will be necessary to span the geographic area and achieve the
planned activities. One team will be based in Sehlabathebe National Park in the south, and one team will
possibly be based in the town of Mokhotlong, a central point accessible to both the Phofung/Mont-aux
Sources and Senqu areas and the Thabana-Ntlenyana/Sani top areas.
It will be possible to reduce the level of staffing once the initial planning has been conducted. In Lesotho,
the first ecologist in the Conservation Division is about to be appointed, and the envisaged core team will
provide substantial support for ecological advice in the early stages of this appointment. It is anticipated
that Lesotho will require at least two ecologists to provide an acceptable level of support for long-termn
conservation management, but it will be possible to scale down the remainder of the support team following
the project implementation.
- 44 -



Project Component 4 - US$18.20 million
Conservation management in existing protected areas forms the fourth major project component. The
threats to biodiversity and the management interventions required were identified in several preparatory
reports including CSIR (1999), Davies and Associates (1999), ECRA (1999), Loxton, Venn and
Associates (1999). These include alien plant infestations, soil erosion, inappropriate fire management
regime, inadequate security, over-grazing, poor waste management and poor management of cultural
resources. Dealing with threats requires the formulation of a strategy, and the design and implementation of
appropriate management programs for each threat, and the tailoring of these in accordance with the
capacity and specific context. The approach which will be adopted is to use these interventions as a
participation learning and action program for both protected area managers and communities alike, with
recruitment and training of local community members to carry out the bulk of the work. In South Africa,
the primary focus will be on the design and implementation of an alien invading species control program,
which has been enhanced by the successful Working for Water model currently applied in some parts of the
study area. The hallmarks of this approach are the employment and capacity-building of local communities
and the development of entrepreneurial opportunities using the materials that result from the clearing. It
also concems the rehabilitation and maintenance of management roads, paths and tracks through conserved
areas to repair historical damage. Finally, wildlife management programs, e.g. management for priority
species, will be developed for selected areas.
The major activity in Lesotho concems Sehlabathebe National Park. This includes the construction of a
new office building, a new nature interpretation facility, a dormitory for school groups, upgrading of skills
among its staff, the employment of a resident ecologist, improvement of administrative, communication and
power facilities, implementation of a fire management program, upgrading of fencing, and acquiring
necessary vehicles for park management.
Project Component 5 - US$1.70 million
Conservation management outside of existing protected areas is the fifth component. Focusing on areas
outside the existing protected areas which have been identified during the preparation as being of high
biodiversity value, the approach will be to establish and work with community conservation forums to
understand concems and problems, and to devise appropriate solutions. Of primary concem is the issue of
overgrazing. Rather than promoting the exclusion of the existing land-uses, the community conservation
program will draw on local expertise and employment to build capacity to implement conservation
measures. As within PAs, this entails the design and implementation of an alien invading species control
program. It also concems establishment, rehabilitation and maintenance of paths and tracks through
conserved areas to minimize damage to biodiversity under the pressure of increasing visitor flows.
Conditions for sustainable livestock management in conservation areas will be determined jointly with local
communities. Cultural heritage management forms a part of this component. It entails the development of
teaching materials and displays, restoration of sites and selective development to attract visitors, staff
training and community education related to cultural heritage, particularly rock art. The identification of
priorities, approaches, methods has been derived from the preparatory studies, especially those dealing with
threats and impacts (CSIR, 1999), cultural resource management (Amafa, 1999) and the reports on
land-use planning and zonation (Metroplan, 1999; Loxton, Venn and Associates, 1999), informed by the
studies which have identified stakeholders and socio-economic issues (ECRA, 1999; Kiepiel and
Associates, 1999).
- 45 -



Project Component 6 - US$3.50 million
Community involvement is an element that runs through several components, but it is also one component
in its own right. The analysis of stakeholders has reinforced earlier findings of a complex socio-economic
context. Contemporary approaches to participatory learning and action suggest that enhanced natural
resource management involves the community at all levels and stages. Building on the highly successful
community conservation programs in KwaZulu-Natal and around the Golden Gate Highlands National
Park, the proposed activities will expand and strengthen these programs into new areas in RSA and in the
focal areas of Lesotho. The core of this is the development of an expanded community conservation
program, supported by community conservation units in each country. The program in each country will be
supported and coordinated by a professional social ecologist with a support team of conservation extension
staff. These will in turn employ community facilitators drawn from the local communities and who will be
the focus of the training of community members involved in other conservation management and tourism
activities.
These units will require infrastructure, equipment and means of transportation to fulfill their function. A
partnership forum will be established to engage local communities, and the component will fund frequent
meetings with all community members, and targeted training to develop skills related to conservation and
nature-based tourism. Possible areas are support for the establishment of pony trekking stations,
development of local guides for nature and cultural heritage (e.g. rock art) interpretation services, training
in basket weaving, pottery and other craft production and marketing advice for sale to visitors, and sale of
medicinal and omnamental plants. Community conservation programs are often described as an open
starting point for any or all of communication, conflict resolution and development programs, where
building and maintenance of trust is a critical component, and which results in enhanced awareness of
environmental problems and demonstrated capacity to devise and implement solutions. The vision for this
activity is that the consistent engagement of communities in these programs in their areas will engender
sustainable approaches to natural resource management with the continued support of the community
conservation units.
Primary sources of information regarding the design and costing of these activities was obtained from the
reports prepared by ECRA (1999), Kiepiel and Associates (1999) and the ongoing successful models being
applied in nature conservation management in the region.
Project Component 7 - US$2.00 million
Nature-based tourism planning forms the seventh major component. While the actual investment in
tourism facilities will almost entirely be left to the private sector, there is a legitimate role for the public
sector, supported where appropriate by this project, to attend to planning, environmental assessments,
marketing, and training of both agency staff and communities. Specific components of this component are a
sizable training program directed to community leaders and emerging entrepreneurs in order for local talent
to adequately capture commercial opportunities through small-scale enterprises. An awareness program
for nature-based tourism, and a training program for community members with a declared interest in
participation, will be conducted. PA management staff will also be trained to manage tourism flows.
An important component will be the development of models and capacity to support the involvement of
local communities in tourism developments associated with existing protected areas and proposed
community conservation areas. In KwaZulu-Natal, the use of community tourism levies is generating
sufficient funds for communities to invest in equity in planned tourism developments in the
- 46 -



Ukhahlamba-Drakensberg Park. In addition to the increased number and diversity of employment
opportunities created, this facility also creates an enhanced opportunity for the involvement of local
communities in economic opportunities based on sustainable and local biodiversity conservation. The high
social costs of private sector developers including communities in new projects will be addressed by the
capacity-building and empowerment activities supported by this project. Private sector developers will also
be encouraged to partner communities and the conservation agencies to build the necessary capacity. The
design and costing of the activities prepared in this component of the project were derived principally from
the reports and workshop inputs of AfED (1999).
Project Component 8 - US$1.00 million
Institutional development is the eighth component. The achievements of the project will not be
sustainable if there is an inadequate institutional structure to "inherit" the results, and to ensure their
long-term sustainability. In the baseline, Lesotho is likely to see some improvement on the national level,
thanks to support from the GEF-funded UNDP-implemented project focusing on southern Lesotho.
Localized support in the LHWP area is also forthcoming from a project funded by the AfDB. In South
Africa, the core institutions at the provincial and national level are already well established, but local
activities would be very limited in the project area, and coordinated landuse planning would remain weak in
the Free State and Eastern Cape Provinces.
In the GEF alternative, the projec would support the emergence of local boards and forums representing
communities around conservation areas. Community conservation forums established in Lesotho will
require further support and formalization. In KwaZulu-Natal, the initiation of the program to establish
Local Boards for protected areas will be strengthened, at a cost of about $0.4m for both countries. An
approximately equal amount would be spent on coordinating landuse planning across agencies and
stakeholders. Lesotho would upgrade its conservation management capacity to adequately manage not only
the SNP, but also several areas that will be handed over to government from the Lesotho Highlands
Development Authority during 2001. National level support would be limited (less than $0. lm) as it would
build upon already available GEF-support through UNDP.
- 47 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SOUTH AFRICA: Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier Conservation and Development Project
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                  US $million    US $million    US $million
Project Management                                           1.96          0.76          2.72
Conservation Planning                                        1.20          0.46           1.66
PA Management Planning                                       1.17          0.44           1.61
Conservation Management: PAs                                11.48          4.33          15.81
Conservation Management.: Ex-PAs                             1.05          0.40           1.45
Community Involvement                                        2.21          0.83          3.04
Nature-based Tourism                                         1.24          0.47           1.71
Institution Building                                         0.60          0.23          0.83
Total Baseline Cost                                         20.91          7.92         28.83
Physical Contingencies                                      1.05          0.39           1.44
Price Contingencies                                         2.09          0.79          2.88
Total Project Costs               24.05          9.10         33.15
Total Financing Required               24.05           9.10         33.15
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Catry                    US $million    US $mil1ion    US $million
Goods                                                          3.07           1.19          4.26
Works                                                          4.79           2.06          6.85
Services                                                      11.02           4.54         15.56
Training                                                       3.67           0.93          4.60
Operational costs                                              1.50           0.38          1.88
Total Project Costs      24.05           9.10         33.15
Total Financing Required      24.05           9.10          33.15
Identifiabie taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and thc total project cost, nct of taxes, is 24.72 (US$m). Thereforc, the project cost sharing ratio is 32.05% of
total project cost net of taxcs.
- 48 -



Annex 4
SOUTH AFRICA: Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier Conservation and Development Project
Incremental Cost Analysis
1.     Baseline Scenario
The project area contains biodiversity of global significance. The principal vegetation type is Austral
Afro-alpine vegetation, which is floristically distinct from mountainous areas to the north. It is species
rich, and the entire Maloti-Drakensberg area contains at least 2153 plant species, 295 bird species, 60
mammal species, 49 species of reptiles and 26 species of amphibians. It is also distinct, with a high degree
of plant, bird and invertebrate endemism, estimated at 30% for plants. A substantial part of the area is
already listed as a Wetland of International Importance under the Ramsar Convention, and is also being
evaluated as a World Heritage Site under the applicable convention. The area is attracting a considerable
number of visitors; around 300,000 registered visits per year on the South African side, while the Lesotho
side remains rather inaccessible and under-appreciated. Therefore, its economic potential is not realized,
and the local population remains in poverty.
This asset is under threat. In the baseline altemative, the pressure on these resources from livestock
overgrazing, improper cultivation, invading alien species, and improper development and poaching will
continue to grow. The potential for sustainable and economically beneficial use that this asset represents
runs the risk of being squandered. There is significant deterioration due to both natural and human causes.
Underlying factors are the pervasive poverty and lack of economic opportunities that most of the area's
population is facing. It has been estimated that some 250,000 people are indirectly or directly dependent on
resource utilization within the Lesotho sections of the study area, while some 600,000 people live in the
RSA section of the study area. Many of these lack alternatives to continued unsustainable use of the land.
(See Annex 11). The threats to biodiversity are discussed further in annex 12.
The Lesotho Government and the Basotho at large recognize that their natural environment is suffering
from considerable stress. There is also general agreement that the country's natural beauty is a
considerable, but virtually untapped source of wealth. It is also clear that current institutions and financial
arrangements do not adequately harness this potential, neither in terms of conservation nor in terms of
tourism development. MEGYA does receive support from UNDP ($2.5 million) through the GEF project
entitled Conserving Mountain Biodiversity in Southern Lesotho. This amount will be spent roughly in
parallel with the current project, and is therefore entered as base case contributions. Furthermore, EU is
funding the Drakensberg-Maloti project in a first Phase with some $0.7 million. However, this resource
will be exhausted by the time the current project is ready for implementation.
Lesotho has one of the smallest protected areas in relative terms of any country in the world. The only
legally protected area is the tiny Sehlabathebe National Park (SNP). SNP is located in the southeastern
corner of Lesotho in the Drakensberg Mountains i.e. along Lesotho's eastern border to South Africa. It is
about 7,239 hectares of highland species-rich vegetation ranging from around 2,200 m to about 2,600 m
above sea level (Sub-alpine zone) with nearly 100 % short grass and no significant ground cover of tall
grass, or woody vegetation.
There are also patches of marshlands and wet meadow at all altitudes, in addition to small areas of dwarf
shrub heaths on steep and rocky ground, which have been badly damaged by uncontrolled burning. Aquatic
vegetation is also present in the Tsoelikane River, its Oxbow Lakes and in rock pools. In addition there are
scattered tall shrubs of Polemannia montana, Rubus ludwighi, Rhus spp., Leucosidea sericea, Euryops
- 49 -



spp. and Helichrysum spp. on cliffs, rocky grounds and other places protected from fire and browsing
animals. Rocklands constitute about 13%, wetlands 11%, and grasslands 76 % of the area.
Even this tiny piece of protected area is under threat from persistent grazing encroachment, poaching and
loss of biodiversity, related to deficient management, poor community relations, decaying fences and lack
of funds, training and equipment. The 4-km road from the unmarked gate to the lodge takes one hour to
travel by terrain vehicle. With a regular car, it is impassable. Capacity utilization at the lodge is below
5%. In the baseline alternative, decay will continue. No significant external support to SNP has been
identified in the base case. The responsibility of managing PAs rests with the Conservation Division of the
MoA, which only has 3 staff members at Headquarters to attend to conservation management in the
country. In the baseline therefore, PA management will continue to be neglected.
UNDP is already offering support to MEGYA through its recently started project: Conserving Mountain
Biodiversity in Southern Lesotho. The long-term project objective is to ensure the conservation and
sustainable utilization of unique alpine and montane landscapes in Lesotho. There are two immediate
objectives, namely to establish a planned and rational network of small protected areas which adequately
protects the full range of Lesotho's mountain biodiversity, and to create an environment supportive of
improved resource management systems such that the rate of biodiversity loss outside of formal PAs is
reduced. About $1 million of the LJNDP-GEF funds of the program are earmarked for PAs and related
activities in the southern part of Lesotho, i.e. in an area that is separate from the one included in the study
area of this project. The remaining approximately $1 .5 million are set aside for the creation of a
"supportive environment." This entails a policy review, economic valuation of biodiversity studies, support
to RMAs, building of community capacity and institutional support. This support is valuable, but will only
allow a partial approach to biodiversity conservation in Lesotho, with a focus on the southern part of the
country. It will not provide sufficient resources for transfrontier collaboration, and establishment of new
PAs in the Maloti chain.
Another project is under preparation by the African Development Bank: the Highlands Natural Resources
and Rural Income Enhancement Project: The area of intervention coincides with Phase IA and 1 B of the
LHDA. The objective of the project is to generate revenues at the grass roots level, for private enterprises
as well as for the central government to alleviate poverty, while protecting the environment. The project is
envisaged to contain four components (i) ecotourism development in the LHDA area, (ii) conservation and
natural resource management, (iii) rural enterprise development, and (iv) institutional strengthening. The
latter is particularly focused on LHDA, private sector interests, the Lesotho Tourist Board and the Ministry
of Tourism. Total project cost is in the order of $11.4 million, with a five-year implementation period,
starting mid-2000. LHDA is the proposed overall project executing and coordination agency. The
proposed Steering Committee includes a representative of MEGYA. The clearly specified geographical
and institutional focus of this project facilitates coordination with the current project. This project can
provide an important boost to baseline activities in tourism management. Its focus, however, is not in the
Maloti chain, and institutionally it is addressing tourism more than biodiversity.
The baseline alternative for RSA looks rather different. South Africa has already had listed the
uKhahlamba-Drakensberg Park as a Wetland of International Importance under the Ramsar Convention,
and the uKhahlamba-Drakensberg Park is currently being evaluated as a World Heritage Site. The
nominated site covers an area of approx. 243,000 ha. It comprises almost equal proportions of Wilderness
Areas and National Park and equivalent reserve. The Park is the largest protected area established on the
Great Escarpment of the southern African subcontinent. The rock art of the Drakensberg is regarded as
being the best preserved of any region in Sub-Saharan Africa. The number of sites is about 600, and the
number of individual images is estimated to at least 35,000. The Park can accommodate 2,000 persons per
- 50 -



night. In addition, about 2,200 beds are provided by private enterprises outside the Park, but in close
proximity. The number of visitors in 1996/97 was 288,200. These are tremendous assets, but there are
also threats: an area of about 2,500 ha is described as infested with alien plants, and a costly clearing
program is needed to address this. There is a need to expand the participation of local communities in both
protected area management and in deriving economic benefits from sustainable nature-based tourism.
The country has several very large park systems. The South African National Parks agency manages 16
parks covering 3.1 million hectares. In 1997/98 these sites catered to 1.5 million visitors, of which 31%
were foreigners. The KwaZulu-Natal Nature Conservation Service manages 80 sites, covering almost 0.7
million hectares. In 1997/98 they serviced 1. 1 million visitors, of which 13.2% were foreigners. The Free
State DEAET manages 16 PAs comprising a total area of 191,440 hectares. There are an estimated 300
private game lodges in South Africa, with about 9,000 rooms and 18,000 beds. These private lodges cater
to a variety of levels in terms of price and service level, including the most exclusive. The parks, in general,
cater to a modest level of price and service. Many of the private game reserves are located adjacent to
government-owned parks. The private reserves take advantage of the ecological benefit obtained from being
near the parks, and provide significant levels of additional environmental protection by providing wildlife
habitat.
In terms of nature-based tourism, South Africa has excellent natural assets. It has a very good range of
natural-environment types, from ocean shores to mountain heights. It has a solid set of national parks and
other types of protected areas, run by both national and provincial agencies, that provide experiences,
tourism infrastructure and site management at world class levels. The transportation infrastructure,
international airports, regional and local roads are the best in Africa. But rmost importantly, South Africa
has a sophisticated and modem tourism business system that enables the country to penetrate international
markets to a significant degree. Further details are contained in Annex 14.
In summary, there is every reason to assume that South Africa has good prospects for financial
sustainability in the tourism industry. However, the picture for nature conservation is rather different, at
least for the next few years. Relatively generous subsidies in the past have been cut drastically in the last
few years. This is not surprising, as the apartheid era has left a heritage of vast unmet social needs. These
have now advanced to the top of the political agenda, and nature conservation is under severe stress to
accommodate the new demands. A transition through commercialization, out-sourcing and staff reductions
is taking place, but if this is driven too far, the core values of conservation will be compromised. There are
clear signals that reductions in subsidies to nature conservation agencies will continue; with or without
GEF, this is a given baseline scenario.
In the baseline alternative, research on biodiversity would still go on in RSA, but mostly confined to
universities, with very limited resources to carry out directly management-relevant studies for conservation
implementation. There would also be continued efforts to enhance tourism planning in the region. Road
investment would also be considerable. For example, the areas south-east of the Lesotho border around
Matatiele have long been neglected, although they hold a substantial population. This upgrading, however,
would stop at the border, and tourism flows would be discouraged by the sharp decline in road standard on
the Lesotho side. Small-scale community programs would continue, but would lack resources to branch
out in the northern and southern parts of the study area in South Africa.
- 51 -



2. Global Environmental Objectives
The objective of the project is to protect the globally significant biodiversity in the Maloti-Drakensberg
mountains through a two-pronged approach: (i) identifying, zoning and protecting biodiversity areas of high
significance, and (ii) establishing alternative livelihoods for the affected population so as to change the
incentives from degrading to enhancing from a biodiversity perspective. This will be done through an
integrated program outlined in detail in the next section.
3. GEF Alternative
In a previous section, the general threats against the biodiversity assets in the project study area were
discussed. Annex 14 discusses some general remedies, and proceeds to outline specific project
components. In responding to the identified threats, and building a set of opportunities for altemative
livelihoods for local communities, the project has been designed as eight inter-related components that
together serve to conserve globally significant biodiversity, and to develop opportunities for nature-based
tourism in the area. Annex 2 above provides considerable detail, but the current annex summarizes the
incremental costs and provides some further details in this respect, and in terms of co-financing.
This GEF project has eight inter-related components that together serve to conserve globally significant
biodiversity, and to develop opportunities for nature-based tourism in the area. These components also
serve to complement activities in Lesotho funded by UNDP ($2.5 million; ongoing) and AfDB ($8.4
million), as well as significant domestic contributions, particularly in RSA. Capacity building is a theme
that runs through the entire project components in an integrated manner.
Project Components
The summary tables at the end of this annex show both the baseline costs and the incremental costs per
component and country, as well as total costs per component for the entire transfrontier project. The costs
have been derived through detailed consideration of unit costs and activity proposals, much of it contained
in the preparatory consultant report listed in annex 8. Unit cost data from the preparatory phase
implementation has also been used. The detailed cost break-downs are available in the project file, but for
the purposes of this annex, they are grouped together in functional aggregates.
1. The first component is project management and transfrontier cooperation. The contribution to global
benefits of this component is to provide "the glue" that keeps the entire project together as a transfrontier
concept, ensures implementation in accordance with GEF objectives through its monitoring and evaluation
reporting, and lays the foundation for long-termn sustainability.
In the baseline alternative, Lesotho would spend a minimal amount (as shown in the table below) over five
years to maintain a core environment data unit and to participate in ad-hoc international meetings. South
Africa would be spending closer to $300,000 over five years in the baseline option. There would be no
full-time staff dedicated to transfrontier collaboration. The GIS capacity would be sufficient to serve the
needs of KZNNCB, but there would not be institutional links to the other implementing organizations in
South Africa or Lesotho.
In the GEF alternative, this component consists of (i) coordination offices with full-time coordination,
financial management, procurement staff, support staff, office equipment and vehicles, domestic
coordination committees with wide stakeholder representation, and an external communication program
($ 1 .8m); (ii) a GIS-based Knowledge Management System, including new hardware and software extended
- 52 -



into all the main implementing organizations, served by increased core staff with new external technical
support ($ lm); (iii) A bilateral Steering Committee (SC) meeting four times per year, and associated
strategic planning workshops, and joint working groups for technical work on topics of common interest,
such as marketing, booking, visitor planning, fire protection, and rescue service. The meetings are
expected to take place ten times per year, at a cost of $0.35 million.
2. Conservation planning formns the second component. In the baseline alternative, Lesotho would have
limited capacity to undertake such planning. South Africa, especially KZNNCB and SANParks would
have capacity to undertake some biodiversity surveys and conservation planning, while activity in the Free
State and Eastern Cape Provinces would be minimal.
Annex 13 provides greater detail on the hierarchical nature of conservation planning from the landscape
level to focused business plans for individual protected area, and the derived needs for staffing. The
preparatory studies generated extensive documentation and data regarding resources in the study area,
including physical, biological, social and economic resources and uses. The project concept is for a
transfrontier conservation and development area, which needs to be planned and zoned to ensure that areas
of global and national biodiversity importance are protected and managed appropriately. In the GEF
alternative, biodiversity assessments ($1.6m) would be possible to undertake to thoroughly document
biodiversity assets of global interest The detailed costs have been derived in the framework outlined in
annex 13, and with teams of one ecologist in Lesotho (two in RSA), two technicians in Lesotho (one in
RSA) and three field assistants in each country. Local community members would be trained in
biodiversity data collection: 60 in Lesotho and 40 in RSA. These efforts also require two vehicles per
country, computer and other office equipment. Designing a protected area system is the other main
sub-component, (SO.3m) which would require a set of workshops organized by the same staff, in
collaboration with overall project coordination staff. Annual unit cost per staff type is available in the
project file.
3. The third major component of the project is Protected Area Planning. In the baseline alternative,
Lesotho would not have any financial means at all to undertake this type of activity. No new areas could
be added to the system, and the existing area would not benefit from any enhancement in planning. In
South Africa, most of the funds available would pertain to KwaZulu-Natal and SANParks which already
have good planning capacity, with limited capacity in the Eastern Cape and Free State Provinces.
There are two sets of areas where further detailed planning is required, namely existing protected areas and
proposed conservation areas. Planning is carried out in a number of phases, beginning with the overall
development and zonation plans for each area, then preparing detailed management programs and finally
addressing business planning and sustainability. See annex 13 for further detail. In the GEF alternative,
Lesotho and the weaker provinces in RSA would be able to benefit from experience learned in the other
institutions. They would also enjoy a new level of resources to build their own capacity directly. RSA
would also benefit from building on the experience in Lesotho with respect to grazing management on
communal lands. Using the results of the preliminary biodiversity survey in the preparatory phase and the
priority areas identified in the main text of this document (four areas in Lesotho and five in RSA) and the
staffing plan and approach outlined in annex 13, the cost for PA planning was derived as almost $0.5m for
Lesotho and approximately $0.6m for RSA. In Lesotho, about $70,000 would be spent on a business plan
for the SNP and four other identified priority areas. In RSA, close to $0.2m would be spent on similar
plans for six priority areas under provincial management, and the community management area in Upper
Thukela, QwaQwa Highlands, and East Griqualand
- 53 -



4. Conservation management in existing protected areas forms the fourth major project component.
The threats to biodiversity and the management interventions required were identified in several preparatory
reports including CSIR (1999), Davies and Associates (1999), ECRA (1999), Loxton, Venn and
Associates (1999). These include alien plant infestations, soil erosion, inappropriate fire management
regime, inadequate security, over-grazing, poor waste management and poor management of cultural
resources. See annex 12 for further discussion.
In the baseline alternative, the MoA would maintain an annual level of about $100,000 for the funding of a
small conservation management unit and the upkeep of Sehlabathebe National Park (SNP). As described,
in the main text, SNP is degrading environmentally, and is utilized only to a fraction of its potential. This
would not change in the baseline. In South Africa, significant resources would be available to KZNNCB
and in relation to areas covered, to SANParks. Resources in the other two provinces would be very limited.
Even in the case of KZNNCB, the declining path of public subsidies would put a strain on management
capacity, that can only be alleviated by investing now for long-term financial viability in partnership with
the private sector and local communities.
In the GEF alternative, The Sehlabathebe National Park would get a complete overhaul as described in
detail in annex 2, for an incremental cost of close to SIm. In South Africa, the most costly incremental
component would be alien invasive clearing ($1 m) based on area estimates from preparatory studies and
unit cost data from the Working for Water Project. The erosion control sub-component would be as costly
as $0.9 million, including compensating for past neglect of erosion control around tracks and paths in
conservation areas.
5. Conservation management outside of existing protected areas is the fifth component. In the
baselines altemative, Lesotho would have no resources at all to spend for conservation purposes in the
areas identified as priorities outside of SNP. Limited capacity would continue to exist in South Africa,
with an accumulated spending in the order of $0.2m over five years, mostly in KwaZulu-Natal.
Focusing on areas outside the existing protected areas which have been identified in the main text of this
document as being of high biodiversity value, the approach will be to establish and work with community
conservation forums to understand concerns and problems, and to devise appropriate solutions. Of primary
concern is the issue of overgrazing. Rather than promoting the exclusion of the existing land-uses, the
community conservation program will draw on local expertise and employment to build capacity to
implement conservation measures. It also includes measures to enhance altemative livelihood activities,
such as capitalizing on the cultural heritage. The project's success with communities hinges on its ability to
deliver tangible benefits from activities that are environmentally sustainable. Hence, activities which are
not immediately related to biodiversity conservation, but indirectly serve to underpin that goal, are
necessary to achieve the overall objective of conserving globally significant biodiversity.
In the GEF alternative, erosion control would be the most expensive sub-component ($0.7m), followed by
fire management, range management, and alien invading plant clearing (all in the range of $0.2m). Smaller
sums have been allocated to office infrastructure in support of the community management work, and to
cultural heritage activities (about SO. Im each).
6. Community involvement is an element that runs through several components, but it is also one
component in its own right. In the baseline alternative, a limited program would be undertaken in Lesotho
under the auspices of the Conservation Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, but it would not have
dedicated staff for the program, sufficient transportation, or locally recruited facilitators In RSA, a
successful model already exists, but it is constrained in its coverage by lack of funds.
- 54 -



Building on the highly successful community conservation programs in KwaZulu-Natal and around the
Golden Gate Highlands National Park, the proposed activities in the GEF alternative will expand and
strengthen these programs into new areas in RSA and in the focal areas of Lesotho. The core of this is the
development of an expanded community conservation program, supported by community conservation units
in each country. The program in each country will be supported and coordinated by a professional social
ecologist with a support team of conservation extension staff (three in each country). These will in turn
employ community facilitators drawn from the local communities (36 in each country) and who will be the
focus of the training of community members involved in other conservation management and tourism
activities. Each team will need four vehicles to adequately reach out to communities. In total, the
community support teams as defined here, would cost about $1 m for Lesotho, and $1.1 m for South Africa.
Capacity building measures, including workshops for community members, establishment of community
fora, and support to locally managed conservation activities (erosion control, fire management, alien plant
species clearing) would require about $0.3m in Lesotho and $0.5m in RSA.
7. Nature-based tourism planning forms the seventh major component. While tourism developmentper
se is not a GEF objective, the level of domestic benefits from tourism development in the project area is not
on a level that attracts private sector investment without the creation of an enabling environment. Without
this component, the project would be more constrained in the incentives it can offer to communities for their
interest and collaboration.
In the baseline alternative, Lesotho would have some resources (approx. $0. tlm) to spend on nature-based
tourism planning on a more general scale, but without the possibility to target training and development
activities to the eastern Highlands. South Africa would have about twice as much resources than Lesotho
for this particular area, and the indirect support of an already vibrant private sector. However, it would not
have amy resources for community-based training.
While the actual investment in tourism facilities will almost entirely be left to the private sector, there is a
legitimate role for the public sector, supported where appropriate by this project, to attend to planning,
environmental assessments, marketing, and training of both agency staff and communities. The most
sizable sub-component is a training program directed to community leaders and emerging entrepreneurs in
order for local talent to adequately capture commercial opportunities through small-scale enterprises
(approximately $0.7m for both countries). In Lesotho, there is a need for basic product development,
development of a forum that gathers the main stakeholders, and marketing efforts ($0.5m). PA
management staff will also be trained to manage tourism flows, and some training will be directed towards
provincial and national level staff in order to create the necessary linkages between them and the emerging
local capacity for tourism ($0.3m). In Lesotho, a modest infrastructure will be designed and installed:
hiking trails, 4x4 tracks, basic trail shelters and so forth ($0.3m). In both countries, village-level nurseries
for the propagation of indigenous, commercially attractive species will be established and community
members trained ($0. 1m).
8. Institutional development is the eighth component. The achievements of the project will not be
sustainable if there is an inadequate institutional structure to "inherit" the results, and to ensure their
long-term sustainability. In the baseline, Lesotho is likely to see some improvement on the national level,
thanks to support from the GEF-funded UNDP-implemented project focusing on southern Lesotho.
Localized support in the LHWP area is also forthcoming from a project funded by the AfDB. In South
Africa, the core institutions at the provincial and national level are already well established, but local
activities would be very limited in the project area, and coordinated landuse planning would remain weak in
the Free State and Eastern Cape Provinces.
- 55 -



In the GEF alternative, the project would support the emergence of local boards and forums representing
communities around conservation areas. Community conservation forums established in Lesotho will
require further support and formalization. In KwaZulu-Natal, the initiation of the program to establish
Local Boards for protected areas will be strengthened, at a cost of about $0.4m for both countries. An
approximately equal amount would be spent on coordinating landuse planning across agencies and
stakeholders. Lesotho would upgrade its conservation management capacity to adequately manage not only
the SNP, but also several areas that will be handed over to government from the Lesotho Highlands
Development Authority during 2001. National level support would be limited (less than $0. Im) as it would
build upon already available GEF-support through UNDP.
4. Incremental cost matrix ($US million)
Component              Base case          GEF alternative       Incremental cost
1. Project management &        0.49                  3.13                  2.64
transfrontier collaboration
2. Conservation planning       0.50                  1.91                   1.40
3. PA management               0.50                  1.85                   1.35
planning
4. Conservation                14.90                 18.18                  3.28
management. PAs
5. Conservation                0.20                  1.67                   1.47
management. Ex-PAs
6. Community                   0.45                  3.50                   3.05
involvement
7. Nature-based tourism        0.31                  1.96                   1.65
8. Institutional               0.54                  0.95                  0.41
development
Totals                         17.89                 33.15                 15.25
Note: Figures may not add up exactly due to rounding errors.
Incremental Costs per Country
Component               Lesotho GEF  RSA GEF  Co-financing Co-financing
(US$M)      (US$M)       Lesotho       RSA
1. Project management & transfrontier     1.3          1.4          0.2          0.3
collaboration
2. Conservation planning                  0.6          0.8                       0.5
3. PA management planning                 0.5          0.8                       0.5
4. Conservation management. PAs            1.1         2.2          0.6          14.3
5. Conservation management. Ex-PAs         1.0         0.4                       0.2
6. Community involvement                   1.4         1.6          0.2          0.3
7. Nature-based tourism                    1.2         0.5          0.1          0.2
8. Institutional development              0.2          0.2                       0.5
Total Project Costs                       7.3          7.9          1.1         16.8
- 56 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SOUTH AFRICA: Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier Conservation and Development Project
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year 1    Year2      Year3     Year 4        Year 5   Year 6  1 Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            1.8        3.0        4.9        6.2        5.6        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             1.0         1.7       2.7        3.3        3.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           2.8        4.7        7.6        9.5        8.6        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               2.8        4.7        7.6        9.5        8.6        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   1.0        2.0        4.0        5.0        3.3       0.0        0.0
Government                 1.8        2.7        3.6        4.5        5.3       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.3        0.4        0.5        0.7        0.8       0.0        0.0
Provincial              1.5        2.3        3.0        3.8        4.6       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      2.8        4.7        7.6        9.5        8.6       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Services approximately 47% (recurrent) works approximately 20% (investment), goods approximately 13%
(investment), training approximately 14% (recurrent), operational cost approximately 6% (recurrent).
- 57 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SOUTH AFRICA: Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier Conservation and Development Project
Procurement
General: Procurement of goods, works, and services will be carried out following Annual Procurement
Plans agreed with the Bank as part of the Annual Work Plan. Procurement of goods and works will be in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January
1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and procurement of
Consulting Services will be in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999). The
Bank's Standing Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for all International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
and Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (RFP) will be used for Consulting Services under QCBS.
Civil works: This category consists of erosion control works, alien clearing and fixed infrastructure. The
erosion control refers to rehabilitation of wetlands, paths and management tracks that have degraded due to
past neglect. The alien clearing program will be substantial in South Africa, but very limited in Lesotho.
The built infrastructure mainly concerns Lesotho, where the SNP will be upgraded in terms of the entrance
gate, reception, administration and research center, water supply, power, environmental education center
and staff accommodation. Limited infrastructure is also planned for Sani Top. New trails for hiking and
small huts along these will also be constructed. The total for both countries is $6.8 million, of which $3.15
million will come from GEF. No ICB is foreseen, as all contracts will be below $0.5 million. NCB is
expected to amount to about $0.4 million of the GEF financed activities, primarily related to the works in
SNP. A major part will consist of Small Works, where the experience from the Cape Peninsula in terms of
training local, small-scale contractors will be utilized. Small Works estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2.75 million equivalent, may be procured
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor
who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully. All procurement documents relating to Small Works will be properly
filed and retained by the main coordinating agencies for post review and audit by the Bank.
Goods: This category includes several vehicles (2 cars and 19 4WDs) and office equipment such as PCs,
printers, faxes and so on, and GIS hardware, software and peripherals. This investment is necessary to
underpin the objectives of community involvement, biodiversity surveying and coordination in a very
inaccessible environment and over a large project implementation area. Some of these purchase can be
lumped together for ICB (about $0.6 m), while others will have to be staggered to coincide with the
demands of staff. NCB is expected to amount to $0.8 m. Smaller items will be handled through Shopping,
and all procurement documents relating to Shopping will be properly filed and retained by the main
coordinating agencies for post review and audit by the Bank.
Services: This category refers mainly to individual, long-term consultant who will be engaged in assisting
the implementing agencies, and who will also build capacity among long-term staff to continue their work
after project implementation. The PCUs in each country will be staffed with a Coordinator, a Financial
Manager, a Procurement Specialist and support staff. Specialists in ecology, park planning, field
technicians, social ecologists, community facilitators, cultural heritage specialists, tourism consultants,
- 58 -



micro-enterprise consultants, marketing consultants, and legal expertise will also be engaged. A few large
contracts (e.g. for GIS services) are expected to fall under QCBS ($ 1.0 m), while most of the services
pertain to small, individual contracts ($6.2 m). Where contracts are not prior reviewed by the Bank, all
procurement documents will be properly filed and retained by the main coordinating agencies for post
review and audit by the Bank.
Training: This category includes numerous workshops, training courses and study tours. The training
program will be submitted annually to the World Bank, and reviewed every 6 months as part of the
supervision missions. As for services, the type of selection method will depend on the size of the contract.
A total of $2.1 million is earmarked for training.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB           Other2        N.B.F.   fTotal Cost
1. Works                              0.00             0.40           2.75          3.69         6.84
(0.00)          (0.40)         (2.75)        (0.00)       (3.15)
2. Goods                              0.60             0.80           0.56          3.31         5.27
(0.60)           (0.80)        (0.56)        (0.00)       (1.96)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00           7.16          8.40        15.56
(0.00)          (0.00)         (7.16)        (0.00)       (7.16)
4. Training, workshops, study         0.00             0.00           2.12          2.50         4.62
tours
(0.00)           (0.00)        (2.12)        (0.00)       (2.12)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00           0.86          0.00         0.86
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.86)        (0.00)       (0.86)
Total                              0.60             1.20           13.45         17.90       33.15
(0.60)           (1.20)        (13.45)       (0.00)       (15.25)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to managing the project.
- 59 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
F  I                     Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category j QCBS    QBS    SFB    LCS        CQ     Other   N.B.F. I Total Cost
A. Firms               1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    1.68      2.68
(1.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)    (1.00)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    6.16    6.72      12.88
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (6.16)  (0.00)   (6.16)
Total  1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    6.16    8.40      15.56
(1.00)  (0-00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (6.16)  (0.00)    (7.16)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 60 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review '
Contract Value                                   Contracts Subject to
Threshold                Procurement               Prior Review
Expenditure Category        (US$ thousands)               Method                  (US$ millions)
1. Works                           >500                      ICB                        0.0
50 - 500                   NCB                         0.5
<50                   Small Works             Prior review first 3
contracts
2. Goods                           >100                      ICB                        0.6
30 - 100                   NCB                  Prior review first 3
<30                                             contracts only.
Shopping                 Post review
3. Services                        >100                     QCBS                         1.0
50 - 100              QCBS/CQ/Other         All contracts >$50,000 for
individual consultants and
< 50              QCBS/CQ/Other            >$100,000 for firms.
<50     QCBS/CQIOther               ~~~~Post review
4. Training, Workshops         >100 (firms)                  Other                       2.0
and study tours*                >50 (indiv.)
5. Operating Expenses              N/A                       N/A                     Post review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:      $4.1 m.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
* Review of training proposals will be carried out on the basis of IDA-approved annual training programs that
would identify the nature of training/study tours/workshops, institutions were training/study tours/workshops
would be conducted (selection of institutions and justification thereof), cost estimates, and contents of the course.
These will be reviewed by IDA on an annual basis
- 61 -



The following major findings and actions were identified as part of the Procurement Assessment in South
Africa:
Procurement regulations differ between implementing agencies, and some aspects of provincial
procurement regulations in the Free State are problematic from a World Bank perspective. There is no
procurement capacity available for this type of project within National DEAT, and limited capacity within
DEAET in Eastern Cape and DEAT in the Free State. The KZNNCB manages most of the geographical
area of the project on the RSA side, and is expected to spend most of the grant within its provincial
boundaries. Hence, it is agreed that:
1. All procurement activities, including procurement planning, for this project should be centrally managed
by KZNNCB, under contract with National DEAT. This should be done in coordination with all the other
beneficiary agencies. Minor procurement of goods could be delegated to the other beneficiary agencies
within agreed authority limits (i.e. all orders/contracts for goods below R15,000. However, monthly
reports on such procurements should be submitted to the PCU for consolidated reporting under the project.
2. KZNNCB will fill the vacant procurement officers' positions with qualified and experienced personnel.
Rigorous training on the Bank's procurement procedures is required.
3. The PCU will submit a procurement procedures and implementation manual, and a standard bidding
document for National Competitive Bidding for review and acceptance by the World Bank.
4. The World Bank will organize a procurement workshop to all the key personnel who are involved with
this Project prior to or at the time of launching the projects.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 62 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
The proposed GEF Grant of $15.25 million, of which $7.92 million will go through RSA, would be
disbursed over five years with an expected Project Completion Date of December 31, 2006 and a Closing
Date of June 30, 2007. The proposed allocation of Grant proceeds for RSA only is shown in table C.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
Goods                                      0.82                 80% local, 100% foreign
Works                                      1.27                 80% local, 100% foreign
Services                                   3.37                         10(%
Training                                   1.17                         100%
Operating Expenses                         0.51                         80%
Unallocated                                0.78
Total Project Costs                        7.92
Total                                      7.92
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Grant will be fully documented, except for: (a) expenditures
of contracts with an estimated value of $50,000 each or less for works and (b) $100,000 or less for goods
and consultants' services provided by firms; and (c) $50,000 or less for individual consultants; and (d) all
operating costs, which may be claimed on the basis of certified statements of expenditure (SOEs).
Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by PCU and will be made
available for review when requested by World Bank supervision missions and project auditors. All
disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the procedures
defined in the Disbursement Letter.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for works, goods and services, the Government will
open a Special Account in a comrnercial bank to cover the part of GEF's share of eligible expenditures to
be managed and administered by the PCU. The Authorized Allocation of the Special Account would be
$0.5 million covering an estimated four months of eligible expenditures financed by GEF. Initially, the
authorized allocation will be limited to an amount of $0.25 million until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
shall be equal to SDR 1.5 million. The PCU will be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment
applications with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures. To the extent possible, all of GEF's
share of expenditures should be paid through the special account.
- 63 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SOUTH AFRICA: Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier Conservation and Development Project
Project Schedule                                     Planned                       Acal
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         18                            47
First Bank mission (identification)                09/01/1997                    09/01/1997
Appraisal mission departure                        01/10/2000                    01/09/2000
Negotiations                                      03/15/2000                     05/04/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                      12/31/2001
Prepared by:
Jan Boj6, Team Leader, and Caroline Guazzo, Task Team Assistant
Preparation assistance:
Eagles, Paul, Ecotourism                                 Everson, Terry, Rangeland Management
McFoy, Cyrus, Biodiversity                               McNeely, Jeffrey, STAP review
Pomela, Emmanuel Motebang, Project Preparation Coordination  Sandwith, Trevor, PA Management
Stewart, Greig, Project Preparation Coordination         Thomson, Cheryth, Project Administration
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Speciality
Adu, Elizabeth                      Country Legal Matters
Bojo, Jan                           Team Leader
Brandon, Carter                     Peer Reviewer
Crepin, Christophe                  GEF Regional Coordinator
Falloux, Francois                   Project Conceptualization
Fisiy, Cyprian                      Social Scientist
Gaginis, Steve                      Disbursement
Guazzo, Caroline                    Processing
Hegarty, Anthony                    Financial Management
Janeiro, Jose                       Disbursement
Kiss, Agi                           Peer Reviewer
Krishnakumar, V. S.                 Procurement
Mackinnon, Kathy                    Peer Reviewer
Marke, William                      Disbursement
Mpoy-Kamulayi, T.                   Country Legal Matters
Ninio, Alberto                      Environmental Law
Seth, Subhash                       Roads
Sugar, Marcos                       Disbursement
Warner, Christopher                 Post-Negotiations Processing
*Note on the Actual Negotiation Date: Post-negotiations with the Government of RSA continued until June 2001.
- 64 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SOUTH AFRICA: Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier Conservation and Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft for negotiations, April 21, 2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Management Assessment
Procurement Assessment
C. Other
Report from Project Identification Workshop (September, 1997)
Minutes from PCD Review Meeting (April, 1999)
Aide-meinoire from Preparation Mission (May, 1999)
STAP review
Minutes from Decision Meeting (December, 1999)
Aide-memoire from Appraisal Mission (January-February, 2000)
Progress reports from Project Coordinators
Minutes from Steering Committee Meetings
Nomination Proposal for the uKhahlamba Park, to be listed as World Heritage Site.
Spreadsheets with detailed cost break-downs for each project component
GEF CEO sign-off (April 24, 2000)
Minutes from negotiations (May 4-5, 2000)
Revised Grant Agreement from DEAT, October 12, 2000
Consultant reports (available on CD-ROM) (see table)
DEAT Approval of revised legal documents, June 5, 2001
- 65 -



Task    Title                                     Date      Consultancy Firm
1    Infonnation Management Standards and       Dec.99   Enviromap GIS Consultants
Guidance
2    Biodiversity Assessment                    Dec. 99   Environmentek CSIR, Pretoria
3    Assessment of threats and impacts, priorities   Dec. 99   Environmentek, CSIR, Pretoria
and necessary management interventions.
4     Road Feasibility Assessment               Dec. 99   Muir Associates, Consulting Engineers
5    Economic Assessment & Development          Dec. 99   Associates for Economic Development
Planning
Conclusions and recommendations with cost
estimates for inclusion in the Project Concept
Document
6RSA   Social Assessment - South Africa           Dec. 99   Kiepiel & Quimlan
6LES   Social Assessment                          Dec. 99   ECRA Consulting (Pty) Ltd
7    Cultural Heritage Audit                    Dec. 99   Amafa aKwaZulu-Natali
Heritage / Erfenis KwaZulu-Natal
8RSA   Transition Management & Development        Dec. 99   Metroplan Development Consultants
Planning - Rep. of S.A.
8LES   Lesotho Transition Zone Management &       Dec. 99   Loxton, Venn & Associates
Development Planning
9    The legal and institutional framework for  Dec. 99   EnAct International
conservation and natural resource
management in the proposed
Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier
Conservation and Development area
10    Protected area management and development  Dec. 99   Richard Davies & Associates
planning
11    International Recognition                 Dec. 99   Environmentek, CSIR, Durban
Volumes I-III
Including electronic files
- 66 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SOUTH AFRICA: Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier Conservation and Development Project
May-2001
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
disbursements'
Project ID   FY   Purpose                           IBRD       IDA              GEF   Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig  Frm Rev'd
P035923    1997   CAPE PENINSULA                        0.00     0.00            12.30     0.00    2.36     9.83     0.00
P048606    1997  IND.COMPET&JOB CREAT                   46.00    0.00             0.00    21.53    18.69    30.89    17.81
Total:    46.00     0.00          12.30     21.53     21.05    40.72    17.81
SOUTH AFRICA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval           Company                        Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
0                   AEF Bulwer                     0.00     0.00     0.19     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.19     0.00
1996                 AEF Carosa Farm                 0.00     0.09     0.13     0.00     0.00     0.09     0.13     0.00
2000                  AEF DBS                        0.00     0.00     0.75     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.75     0.00
1999                 AEF Dargie Timbr                0.30     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.30     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997/98              AEF E.R. Medical                0.00     0.18     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.18     0.00     0.00
1997                 AEF Erand Hotel                 0.00     0.40     0.65     0.00     0.00     0.40     0.65     0.00
1999                 AEF FOXTROT MEAT                0.66     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.33     0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                 AEF Green Chare                 0.00     0.09     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.09     0.00     0.00
1999                 AEF IHS Techno                  0.49     0.00     0.65     0.00     0.49     0.00     0.65     0.00
1998                 AEF Lesedi Hosp                 0.16     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.16     0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                 AEF NSAPIC                      0.00     0.00     0.30     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                 AEF Roodepoort                  0.00     0.00     0.34     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.34     0.00
1998                 AEF Sordale                     0.33     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.33     0.00     0.00     0.00
1996                 AEF Wip Motors                  0.00     0.33     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.33     0.00     0.00
1995/96/99           AFLIFE                          0.00     5.94     0.00     0.00     0.00     5.94     0.00     0.00
1996/98              Cashbank                        8.16     0.00     0.00     0.00     8.16     0.00     0.00     0.00
1999                 Energy Afr Ltd                  0.00    38.02     0.00     0.00     0.00    38.02     0.00     0.00
0                   FRBI                          30.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    30.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
2000                  KIWANE                         0.00     0.00     9.28     0.00     0.00     0.00     3.78     0.00
1995                 SACGF                           0.00     2.61     0.00     0.00     0.00     2.61     0.00     0.00
1995                 SAFCF                           0.00     2.06     0.00     0.00     0.00     2.06     0.00     0.00
1995                  SAFFM                          0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
2000                  SAHL                           0.00     2.47     0.00     0.00     0.00     1.41     0.00     0.00
1999                  SAPEF                          0.00    35.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    15.99     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:         40.10    87.19    12.29     0.00    39.77    67.12     6.49     0.00
- 67 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
2001                Printability                     3.21      2.46       1.56      0.00
1999                SABIC                            0.00      0.00       1.00      0.00
2000                SAHL-LF                         11.77      0.74       0.00      0.00
2001                SpierEstate                     10.00      7.50       2.00      0.00
2000                ABSA                           100.00      0.00       0.00    100.00
2000                AEF Tusk                          1.91     0.00       0.12      0.00
2000                EDU LOAN                          1.62      1.62      0.00      0.00
2000                KIWANE ASSET MGT                 0.00      0.00       0.44      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      128.52     12.31      5.12    100.00
- 68 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SOUTH AFRICA: Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier Conservation and Development Project
Sub-   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    South   Saharan   middle-       _       _     _   _     __       _
Africa    Africa   Income       Development diamond*
1999
Population. mid-year (millions)                         421        642       573                  Life expectancy
GNP Per capita (Alias method, US$)                    3170         500     4,900
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       133.5       321     2,811
Average annual growth. 1093-99
Population /%)                                           1.9       26         1.4     GNP                               Gross
Labor force M%                                           2.4       2.6        2.1     Gpe                              Grossr
Most recent estimate (/htott year available, 1993-99)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of pDoulation below national poverty line)
Urban Population (% of total population)                 52         34        76
Life expectancv at birth (vears)                         55         50        70
Infant mortality (per t 000 live births)                 51         92        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                9         32         7                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (1 of poPutation)        70         43        78
Illiteracy /X of population ape 15+)                     15         39        10
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-apre Population)  133         78       109             South Afnca
Male                                                  135         85         --   Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                131         71
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999           -  -           - --
Economic ratio$*
GDP IUS$ billions)                            559       96.0     133.9      131.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 17.6      16.5      16.2       15,7                     Trd
Exports of qoods and services/GOP             35.0      26.2      25.7       2S.4                      rade
Gross domestic savinosJGDP                    27.1      21.5      17.4       18.2
Gross national savinostGDP                    22.8      1810      14.6       15.3
Current account balancelGDP                    6.2       16        -1.6      -04      Domes
Interest Pasments/GDP                                              0.6        0 7     Doetic        -   ;          Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                    17,1       19.0     S
Total debt service/exports                                         9.9
Present value of debtlGDP                                         18.0
Present value of debt/exports                                     67.7
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1995       1999   1999-03
faveraqo annuslt rrowth)
GDP                                   1.4      1.6       0.6       1.2        3.3        -      South Africa
GNP per capita                        0.9     -0.4       1 2       -0.5       1.8               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         1.2      4.9       2,3       0.0        3.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            20
Agriculture                                    6.0       5.4       3.8        3.8
Industry                                      45.5      40.7      32.0      32.4      rs
Manufacturing                                21.7     23.5       19.1      19.2
Services                                      48.5      53.8      64.2      63.7       o
94   vs  s9      sr    s
Private consumDtion                           57.8      59.3      62.8      62.6    .,:.-
General qovernment consumption                15.0      19.2      19.8       19.2              -      GDI    -O-GDP
Imports of goods and services                 25.4      21.2      24.4       22.9
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aqriculture                                    2.6       0.2      -3.1        4.3    20
Industry                                       1.0       0.6      -0.9       -0.2
Manujfacturing                                1.5      0.6       -1.8       0.2    15
Services                                       2.7       2.2        1.9       1.9
Private consumption                            2.7       2.4       1.3        0.7       -     4    55    a    97   5I a    8
General qovernment consumption                 3.9       0.8      -0.5       -1.9
Gross domestic investment                     -3.9       1.5      -1.0       -3.5   -10
Imoorts of qoods and services                  -0.4      7.4       2.1       -7.0            -Exports           Imports
Gross national Droduct                         1.5       1.7       0.5        1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-groun averae. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 69-



South Africa
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                   1
(% change)
Consumerprices                               13.1    14.7        6.9      5.2    10
Implicit GDP deflator                        15.5    17.3        7.6      6.9
Government finance
(r of GDP, includes current qrants)                                               o
Current revenue                             21.9    27.0        28.6     30.6            94   95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                        2.2     0.6       -2.3      0.3                GDP de6ator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      -4.2    -1.2       -5.1     -4.7
TRADE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                        19,560   22,949    29,116    26,169    40,000
Gold                                      7,129    6,653     4,685    4,116          .
Chemicals                                 2,295    1,593     2,496    2,516     3000_
Manufactures                              2,861    5,694    10,170    4,622
Total imports (cif)                        14,215   17,642    27,269   27,042    20.000
Food                                       623      966      1,632     1,585    -10.000
Fuel and energy                           4,855    6,511    10,929    2,877
Capital goods                                ..       ..        ..  11,830
93  94  95  96  97  99  99
Exportpnceindexf1995=100)                              52       108       111
Import prce index (1995=100)                           52        99       100                  a Exports     o Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                             100       109       111
-ALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UIS$ millions)                             1979    1989       1998     1999      Currert account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and servces               19,922   25,129    34,385   33,321     2
Imports of goods and services              14,288   20,465    32,733   30,009
Resource balance                           5,633    4,664      1,652    3,312
Net income                                 -2,331   -3,286    -3,018   -2,852
Net current transfers                        143      186       -738     -927     0   -+         ,l
Current account balance                    3,445    1,564    -2,104      -467     1  9    14
Financing items (net)                     -2,978   -1,650      2,830   -3,506                  1 1          1
Changes in net reserves                     -466       86       -726    3,973    -2
Memo:
Reserves including pold (US$ mnillions)    5,088    2,633      7,627    9,857
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)              0.8     2.6        5.5      6.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(USS millions)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..      ..   22,851    24,901
IBRD                                                            0         1                      A: 1 D: 10
IDA                                          .        ..        0         0
Total debt service                             ..      ..    3,531
IBRD                                         ..       0         0         0
IDA                                          ..       0         0         0      G: 10,928
Composition of net resource iows                                                                                  F: 13,962
Official grants                             ..       ..       246
Official creditors                          ..
Private creditors                           ..        0         0         0
Foreign direct investment                 -488        8       550
Portfolio equity                                     ..       619
World Bank program
Commitments                                           0         0         0     A - IBRD                    E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                         0         1         1     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                  0         0         0     c - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                             0         1         1
Interest payments                                     0         0         0
Net transfers                                         0         1         1
Development Economics
- 70 -



Additional
Annex 11
Community Consultation and Social Assessments
Introduction
The Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier Project supports a conservation and development program, whose
primary goals are i) to protect globally significant biodiversity and ii) to facilitate development initiatives
for the communities in the program area. Involvement of these communities is central to the design and
implementation of the project. As part of project preparation, the coordinators carried out extensive
consultations with the communities in the study area. In addition, social assessments were commissioned
for both South Africa and Lesotho to assess project impacts and to map out the processes for community
involvement in the long-term biodiversity conservation program.
The key elements in the preparation of these social assessments include the analytical components that
address i) stakeholder analysis and ii) institutional analysis; and the process components, which address
long-term participatory aspects. The process components deal with the mode of engagement of stakeholder
in the project (i.e. their consultation and participation) and the framework for monitoring (participatory
monitoring, program monitoring and impact monitoring) and evaluation. The analytical aspects in this
project clarify the different stakes involved and the stakeholders, as well as the institutional arrangements
underpinning existing relationships.
It is on this basis of this framework that the social assessments for South Africa and Lesotho are presented.
Although this is a transfrontier project, this distinction between the two countries is relevant because the
social issues and trends are not the same and different consultants carried out the studies.
Part 1: Social Assessment - South Africa
The South African social assessment was carried out in four areas, as follows:
(i)    The Maluti area of the Eastem Cape Province is dominated by service delivery activities. The
service sector accounts for about 57.8% of all employment according to the 1991 DBSA census data.
Apart from the employment opportunities provided by the service sector, the overwhelming majority of the
households rely on subsistence agriculture practiced on communal lands. Most of the villages in this study
zone are located in the montane zone and are therefore dependent on the project area for their livelihoods.
(u)    St. Bernard's Peak in KwaZulu-Natal is characterized by commercial farmlands, and private
property holdings. There is a high rate of unemployment and male absenteeism for the few jobs that exist.
Most of the properties adjoining the project area are privately owned, and subsistence use poses little
pressure on the biodiversity of these areas. However, existing and potential land-uses including commercial
afforestation have resulted in significant impacts on the mountain environment and need to be addressed
through effective land-use planning.
- 71 -



(iii)   The Upper Thukela area, also in KwaZulu-Natal, is a traditional rural area with high levels of
unemployment. Even where opportunities exist, there is also a high level of male absenteeism. This is a
locality where NGOs, such as Bergwatch, are involved in community conservation. The Rand Water
Mnweni Trust has also initiated greater community participation in conservation activities.
(iv)   The QwaQwa area in the Free State was fornerly a self-governing territory under the apartheid
regime. This economy of the area is dominated by employment in the mining sector, albeit a declining
activity in the Free State. Having been subjected to self-government, the power of traditional authority is
omnipresent and is manifested in the control of land allocation. Unfortunately, the area has high
unernployment, stock theft, random burning of the rangelands, and overgrazing. These negative trends
consequently exert undue pressure on natural resources to sustain the livelihoods of people and livestock.
In summary, the four study zones are characterized by a high level of unemployment, an unusually high
proportion of females and children which negatively affects decision making in livestock management, and
in most cases reliance on natural resources for sources of livelihood. In those areas where common property
resources are still managed by local chiefs and their agents, free rider problems associated with overgrazing
are predominant. For a population of approximately 600,000 (excluding St. Bernard's Peak) the
employment profile is as follows:
_   Formal employment                     34.0%
-   Informal sector                        13.1%
e   Marginal sector (subsistence)         26.7%
-   Unemployed                            26.2%
These figures show significant levels of poverty. It is therefore not surprising that most stakeholders
expressed the following needs and concerns:
* Unemployment was seen as the main concern and priority should be given to job creation in the project;
* Stock theft, uncontrolled burning of rangelands, and livestock trespassing negatively affects the
biodiversity of the study area;
-   Overgrazing, especially on communal land, was widely reported to negatively impact tourism;
i   Infrastructure investments, including water supply, roads, and telecommunications, were identified as
factors that will increase the tourism potential of the area;
*   Finally, there was a strong interest in training and capacity building (e.g. biodiversity assessments, tour
guides).
Given these concerns, and the natural beauty of the landscape, the overriding view of stakeholders was that
nature-based tourism development, which emerged as a key component in the resolution of the huge
problem of unemployment, would be a major force behind rural economic restructuring. The project was
therefore visualized as setting the stage for an expansion of livelihoods and bringing about the convergence
of conservation and development (e.g. rehabilitation of thatch-producing grasslands for income generation).
Institutional Issues
On institutional analysis, there is a list of the different government, parastatal, provincial, and local level
institutions operating in the four study areas (Kiepiel & Quinlan 1999). This list describes the attributes of
these organizations but does not provide an adequate basis to assess their efficiency and effectiveness. It is
generally noted that areas under common property regimes are subjected to high levels of resource
- 72 -



degradation. This has prompted communities to take their own initiative in the implementation of resource
conservation in their areas. Consequently, the lessons of such initiatives as Landcare and Working for
Water are cited as models worthy of further studies during implementation.
Further institutional analysis will be required during the early phase of program implementation to clarify
the institutional platform (rules, regulations, normative systems, etc.) on which various actors stand to
articulate their claims. That analysis should further provide insights into those actors who can deliver on
project outcomes, other actors who have veto power in the system, and how to engage these groups of
actors to move in the desired direction.
Also worth mentioning as part of the institutional and cultural landscape of the project area is the existence
of historically dated and culturally significant San rock paintings. These rock art resources, which provide
us with glimpses of other times, are of global cultural significance.
Consultation and Participation
On the consultation process, it is obvious that no viable conservation approach can achieve any long-term
success in any of the four regions without the involvement of local communities. The social assessment
therefore advocates community involvement in the planning and implementation of the project.
Although the South African study relied mainly on secondary data sources, a strong case has been made for
involving the communities in biodiversity conservation. It is highly recommended that intensive
consultations be carried out with various stakeholders during the entire implementation of this program.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Finally, benchmarking the social assessment, as a process, needs to carried out. This phase of both
program and impact monitoring is critical in the design and implement of the different components of this
project for each of the biodiversity hot spots.
Social Safeguard Issues
The possibility of project-induced involuntary resettlement in South Africa is not envisaged in any of the
areas identified as hot spots that require immediate investments. Agricultural pressure, which is the
common form of economic displacement, is not an issue in the afro-alpine reaches of the project area.
However, the project aims to work with the communities outside the project zone as a strategy to enhance
conservation efforts within afro-alpine biodiversity areas.
At first sight, the prevalence of rock art resources within the project area might suggest that issues of
cultural property might become topical. But in view of the fact the project aims at conservation of
biodiversity and setting the stage for nature-based tourism, these cave paintings stand a much better chance
of conservation with the project than without the project.
There is no question of indigenous peoples' policy being triggered, as the stakeholders are all indigenous to
the region. When an analysis of vulnerability was carried out, no particular ethnic or social group could be
said to suffer undue impacts as a result of project implementation.
- 73 -



Part II: Social Assessment - Lesotho
A key challenge for project design and implementation in Lesotho is the fact that the rangeland is a
commnon property resource, whose management regime is a mixture of the traditional system of maboella
and the state sponsored system of the range management area (RMA). The local perception that rangeland
can be exploited for free, challenges concepts of conserving biodiversity that is of global significance. It is
in search for common ground, which blends conservation with development that necessitated the
commissioning of a social assessment for the project. The underlying assumption is that the success of the
project is contingent on a community-driven approach, which involves the stakeholders during the initial
planning phase as well as the implementation phase.
Stakeholder Analysis
Pursuant to this goal, the four districts of Qacha's Nek, Thaba Tseka, Mokhotlong and Butha Buthe were
targeted for social analysis. A sample of 36 villages and 790 respondents were included in the participatory
land-use planning surveys. Workshops in Makanyaneng, Mashai and Linakaneng were conducted to
identify the principal environmental concems and perceptions of the users. All these groups were within the
Thaba Tseka District and use the Sani and Sehlabathebe summer grazing areas. The groups' composition
included chiefs, headmen, livestock owners, women's group, Stock Theft Control Unit members and
members of the Village and District Development Councils.
In the field, proven social science research tools, including participatory rural appraisals, participatory
stakeholder workshops, participatory land-use planning, and institutional surveys were carried out to elicit
the relevant information as well as engage the stakeholders in the assessment of the issues. This
consultation process laid the foundation for long-term engagement of the stakeholders in the management of
the resource base. Furthermore, the National Environment Secretariat of Lesotho commissioned a
participatory rural appraisal of six villages in the Mokhotlong District to determine the perspectives of the
people in conserving the ecosystem of the area. The concems of the communities will be addressed in this
project.
The stakeholder analysis identified three levels of stakeholding: i) individual actors, ii) households, and iii)
communities. Although the household emerged as the primary unit of analysis, with an average size of 5.8
persons in the project area, other institutional actors such as chiefs, principal chiefs, VDCs, etc. were
identified as significant actors in the project context. Approximately 250,000 people depend on natural
resources from the area.
A generalized finding of poverty and unemployment, expressed in terms of lack of cash (monemetrics), was
identified as a serious problem facing most households. This situation has recently been compounded by the
retrenchment of Basotho men from the mines in South Africa. This has significant consequences on
household incomes and the living standards in the study areas. To cope with these hardships, many
households have resorted to beer brewing, an occupation carried out primarily by women. Other sources of
income include livestock products (wool and mohair), cattle sales during auctions, herders wages, sale of
firewood, sale of vegetables, etc. The vast majority of these beneficiaries rely on rangelands for their
livelihoods.
The data also show that 79% of the households are male-headed, and that most of the female-headed
households are those occupied by old widows. Educational attainment in the study area is significantly
below the national average of 78%; 31% of people surveyed had no formal education. Livestock herding
kept most of the boys out of school.
- 74 -



When viewed from the standpoint of the rangeland resources, 93% of the households surveyed utilize these
resources as their primary source of livelihood. Farming pressures on the land are not reported, the main
source of pressure on the range is overgrazing.
Consultations during the preparation of the social assessment produced the following conclusions:
*   All communities were aware that rangelands particularly in the summer grazing areas are seriously
degraded;
* Stock theft is a major concern of these communities;
*   Communities are aware that wetlands in the area are severely damaged and are drying up;
*   There are problems in the administration the areas due to disagreements between headmen and chiefs.
Other Forums for Stak-eholder Consultations
In addition to the consultations carried out by the social assessment team, the project carried out multiple
sessions of consultations with institutional stakeholders as part of the project preparation effort. These
included:
(i)    NGOs: At an NGO meeting held on October 13, planned project activities were discussed and
views from the various groups will be incorporated into the planned activities. The following NGOs were
present: Lesotho Red Cross, Lesotho National Wool & Mohair Growers Association, World Vision
International (Lesotho), Lesotho Durham Link Office, Church Action Group (an advocacy group), Plenty
Lesotho, Christian Council of Lesotho, Helvetas Swiss Development Corporation, GROW - Mokhotlong,
Community Legal Resource and Advice Center, Development for Peace Education, Transformation
Resource Center, Highlands Church Action Group. NGOs in Lesotho, having understood the project
objectives are now keen to contribute to implementation.
(ii)    Local Government: Several meetings have been held with District Secretaries of the affected
districts. In the districts of Butha-Buthe Mokhotlong and Thaba Tseka, the District Management Teams
also attended the meetings with the District Secretary. The District Management Teams comprise the
District Senior sectoral and departmental Officers: Agriculture, Tourism, Health, Roads and Planning. The
major conclusions from the meetings were:
*   careful participatory planning of the transfrontier area must be undertaken;
*   grazing in the RMAs must be controlled;
*   mechanisms to protect the wetlands should be developed and implemented;
*   community involvement in the management of resources within the RMAs is critical.
(iii)   National Government and Parastatal Organizations: Consultations with the national
Government leaders have been with the senior officials of the Ministry of Works, Roads Department,
Ministry of Tourism, Sports and Culture, and the Lesotho Tourism Board. Officials from these ministries
have also been taken to the project study area. Since parts of the project study area are within the LHDA
jurisdiction, consultations took place with the Authority Nature Conservation Officers, the Infrastructure
and engineering officers, Tourism Officers, LHDA Environment and Social Services Group and the LHDA
Contract 604 (design of nature conservation areas in LHDA areas). These consultations complemented our
understanding of the institutional issues.
- 75 -



Institutional Issues
The institutional analysis for Lesotho highlighted a complex web of relationships relating to rangeland
management (see Annex 12). The function and role of these institutions must be determined if interventions
in range management are to be successful.
The introduction of range management areas and grazing associations has been met with mixed feelings.
Proper range management rotations have been ignored for fear of livestock theft. In fact, the fear of
livestock theft is a major threat to rational rangeland management.
Emphasis on de-stocking has been met with resistance on both cultural and marketing grounds. First, on
cultural grounds, local livestock owners perceive cattle as a store of value, not as an economic factor of
production. According to local registers of value, owning large heads of cattle enhances a person's status in
the community. Second, markets are said to be inaccessible in the highlands for those livestock owners who
want to de-stock. Access to adjoining markets in South Africa has been restricted and owners are obliged to
take their livestock to markets in the lowlands or the foothills of Lesotho. These issues need to be during the
project design and implementation phase, if globally significant biodiversity is to be conserved.
Implications for the project
Both the analytical and processing aspects of the social assessment emphasize community engagement
during the design and implementation of this project. The following implications are derived from the
Lesotho study where there was ample consultation of stakeholders during the survey.
(i)    Preparatory workshops undertaken during the social assessment will provide a sound basis for
future participatory work with the relevant stakeholders. The identification of the relevant institutions and
their relative power should form the basis for future planning of activities.
(ii)    The main needs identified by the communities were the need for income generating activities
(including nature-based tourism) and training. These should be given top priority in proposed project
activities.
(iii)   The social assessment discussed four models for sustainable land management:
*   total exclusion;
*   formation of range management areas;
*   traditional range management involving resting of certain areas (maboella);
*   mixed use.
The model that was favored by most communities was an adapted range management area model. If this
model is adopted it should be legitimized by the govemment. The communities stated the need for strict law
enforcement to support the model.
(iv)    The social assessment identified the need to train communities in grazing management. It is
apparent from the detailed description of the traditional maboella system that livestock managers have a
sound understanding of the principles of grazing management. The reasons for the breakdown of the system
(both political and social) need to be identified and solutions sought.
- 76 -



(v)    The identified need for education on the hydrological cycle and importance of wetlands should be
highlighted as a project activity.
(vi)   The social assessment recommended the promotion of abattoirs and markets to encourage
de-stocking.
(vii)   The central tenet of the social assessment is the involvement of communities at all levels of project
design and implementation. The request for the fonnation of community committees (e.g. community
conservation forums) and their participation in regular meetings and follow-up session should be
institutionalized and monitored.
The same framework for monitoring and evaluation proposed above for the South African version applies
to Lesotho.
Social Safeguard Issues
No specific social safeguard issues have been identified in Lesotho. However, due to rapid emergence of
unplanned settlements close to govemment offices, especially at Sani Pass, a decision may be taken during
the implementation phase to move out the residents from these unplanned settlements. If that scenario were
to take place in any of the project areas not visited by the appraisal mission, resettlement planning
consistent with world Bank guidelines on involuntary resettlement, must be followed and a plan submitted
to the Bank for approval.
- 77 -



Additional
Annex 12
Rangeland Management and Biodiversity
An assessment of the biodiversity content of the Maloti-Drakensberg area, which is considered to be an
area of high regional plant endemism, shows some significant deterioration due to both natural and human
causes. Factors contributing to such resource deterioration include: (i) overgrazing of communal lands, (ii)
out of season burning regimes and uncontrolled wild fires, (iii) increased cultivation on steep slopes of the
mountain, (iv) livestock trespassing across borders, and (v) the invasion of alien plant species. The aim of
this section is to identify some of the underlying causes of biodiversity loss and to propose ways of
addressing such root causes within the project components.
(i)    Overgrazing of communal lands
In Lesotho and South Africa rangeland is a communal resource to which every community member has the
right of use, but not ownership. Prior to the 1900's there was little pressure on the rangelands and people
could graze their animals wherever they liked. However, increased population growth and their dependence
on livestock have resulted in greater pressure on the natural resource base and degradation of the
rangelands. Increased stock theft has also constrained some stockowners to keep animals close to their
homesteads for long periods, further engendering overgrazing of the rangeland.
In South Africa many of the communal areas were subject to "Betterment" planning by the government in
the 1950's. The areas were divided into three zones (grazing camps, villages and croplands) which were
fenced to control livestock movement. During summer, livestock were kept in grazing camps in the higher
lying areas, but had open access to the rangeland and crop residues near the villages during winter.
Although this system still operates in many communal areas today, lack of consultation with the
communities led to the breakdown of the fences and uncontrolled use of the rangelands.
The government of Lesotho has put considerable effort and resources into developing management
strategies to address the problem of overgrazing in communal areas. Although it is apparent from the long
history of govemment and donor aid programs that there is no simple solution, there are a number of
lessons that can be leamt from these interventions.
A review of these interventions (Hartley 1999) illustrates Lesotho's strong history of grazing management.
Under the traditional transhumance grazing system there is a seasonal migration of livestock from the
pertnanently settled arable areas to the pastoral summer grazing areas in the high mountains. In winter the
grasses are dormant and have low forage value so that it is necessary for the livestock to feed on crop
residues close to the villages. During the growing season (summer) the livestock are moved up into the
mountains when the grazing value of natural grasslands is high and livestock damage to crops is minimized.
Traditionally, chiefs were responsible for managing grazing by controlling stock numbers in certain grazing
areas and setting aside areas for protection of thatch grass, reed beds, tree planting and rotational grazing.
Historically, chiefs were powerful and effective administrators, but today their effectiveness in regulating
grazing control has been eroded (Motsamai 1991). The main contributing factors to this are diminishing
range resources, expansion of settlements, increased stock theft and lack of administrative capacity (e.g.
manpower, support services). Several state interventions (e.g. the establishment of Village Development
Councils) were subsequently initiated to address these problems. However, the transfer of power from
Chiefs to Village Development Councils has caused serious tensions and conflicts within many
- 78 -



communities and has hampered the effective management of rangeland resources (Loxton, Venn &
Associates 1999).
Livestock owners and mangers in Lesotho currently operate under two institutions:
1)     Chieftainship which comprises traditional leaders, and
2)     Central government, which enacts legislation and operates through professional civil servants and
elected bodies (Tshabalala 1995).
Although the statutory regulations were meant to provide a means of regulating land use their
implementation has failed, largely due to lack of proper institutions to administer them (Loxton, Venn &
Associates 1999). Another problem is that responsibility and jurisdiction over natural resources is scattered
across many government ministries and departments as well as across several local structures. Consultation
and collaboration with all these ministries will be crucial for successful range management policy
formulation and implementation.
One of the most substantial interventions in Lesotho has been the Range Management Areas (RMAs)
Program initiated in 1982 by the Range Management Division with donor assistance from USAID (Hartley
1999). Areas were set aside for the exclusive use of a set number of communities, whose livestock keepers
were members of a legally registered Grazing Association. The main principles of RMAs are:
*   increase the productivity and income of rural livestock producers;
v   facilitate commercialization of the extensive livestock industry, while at the same time satisfying the
subsistence needs of rural households and
*   initiate management of renewable resources in a manner that is sustainable and socially acceptable to
rural Basotho.
Perceptions on the success of RMAs range from "considerable success" in some areas (Weaver 1991) to its
rejection in Mokhotlong (Hartley 1999). Indicators of the success of the Sehlabathebe RMA (Weaver &
Sekoto 1991) were:
*   increased livestock productivity;
*   a decrease in percentage bare ground from 26.8% to 20.3%;
*   an 16% increase in range condition; and
*   a 33.8% increase in species diversity.
In the Pelaneng/Bokong RMA, that was initiated by the Range Management Division under the
USAID-supported Community-based Natural Resource Management Project, within the Lesotho Highlands
Water Project catchment area, the main achievements have been an increase in community income
generation through tourism, the initiation of planted pastures for livestock and an increase in the number of
livestock auctions.
Social and political issues appear to be the main reasons for dissatisfaction of RMAs (e.g. election of
political members on to committees, lack of community input in decision making, poor communication,
lack of perception of benefits). These issues need to be addressed through the project if future interventions
are to be successful.
In conclusion, a number of factors that must be addressed by the project to achieve sustainable
management of communal resources in the study area are:
- 79 -



* the development of community conservation forums to ensure the participation of all the people who
depend on the resources.
*   facilitation of the development and implementation of a resource management plan by the community
to control the manner and rate of resource exploitation. This can be achieved through consultation and
participation of all the stakeholders and by supporting and strengthening the institutions involved.
*   the employment and training of extension staff and the provision of adequate resources and incentives
to support them.
*   employment and training of community facilitators to implement the management of the resources.
*   education of herd boys to support livestock management plans.
*   facilitation of legislation to support local government structures and implementation of resource
management plans.
*   facilitation of market-based tourism opportunities to support the people's need for income generation.
* introduction of alternative fodder programs.
*   build on transfrontier co-operation between Lesotho and South Africa so that livestock owners have
ready access to markets and auctions.
(ii)    Out of season burning of the rangelands
Fire management is a critical and time-tested mechanism for range rejuvenation and environmental
management in the locality. However, when mismanaged, it can cause serious damage to the rangelands.
Two factors account for the uncontrolled wild fires in the Maloti-Drakensberg area. Firstly, out of season
burning (e.g. summer burning) reduces the high quality grazing species resulting in the encroachment of
low quality forbs and unpalatable grasses. Secondly, the unchecked actions of conimunity members,
especially the herd boys, who put in fires during the dry winter period to promote new flushes of growth
often results in uncontrolled wild fires that are a threat to property and biodiversity.
The project aims at dealing with uncontrolled fires through the implementation of better fire management
practices (e.g. seasonal burning programs, firebreaks, etc.) and as part of the educational aspects of the
community outreach program. Communities will also be associated with the fire fighting strategies that the
project will develop.
(iii)  Increased cultivation on the slopes of Maloti-Drakensberg Mountains
Rapid population increase in the highlands has exerted undue pressure on limited land resources. Moreover,
dam construction, especially the Katse dam in Lesotho, has attracted more migrants into the highlands and
further has increased the need for cultivable lands. This increase in population trend has undoubtedly
brought into agricultural production more marginal and fragile lands along the slopes of the mountain
range.
A land use planning exercise, with the involvement of the communities, will complement some of the
initiatives being implemented by the Lesotho Highland Development Authority along the margins of the
project area.
(iv)   Livestock Trespassing across Borders
Given the transhumance nature of cattle management in the highlands, stock owners tend to see land in
terms of territory for grazing purposes, unmindful of national borders. In some cases, these transhumance
corridors predate the establishment of national boundaries. Hence, South Africa conservation authorities
have been registering cases of cattle trespassing across the borders into protected areas.
- 80 -



The effective organization and enforcement of rules within the RMA will institutionalize more structured
grazing practices in the program area. The project's contribution to this process will consist of revamping
the RMAs or the creation of new RMAs. In addition to project-level intervention, bilateral discussions on
the enforcement of border controls might be required, if community-level intervention fails to work
(v)    Alien plant species
The invasion of most alien plant species, as a result of overgrazing and human settlement, is a major threat
to biodiversity and water resources in the catchment areas. The major problem plants are Acacia dealbata,
and Pinus patula, which have invaded approximately 44,000 ha of the project area. The removal of these
species in the Maloti-Drakensberg area is necessary if biodiversity of the project area is to be conserved.
Project activities that will address this problem include an alien clearance program, where local
conmmunities will be trained and employed to manually remove the problem plants. This will be combined
with an education program on land management and rehabilitation. Herbicides will be used sparingly, and
only by trained staff on species that coppice aggressively without such treatment. Direct application will
be used, as opposed to general spraying. The alien eradication program will be used as a springboard to
train emerging entrepreneurs from previously disadvantaged communities. Through training in
management skills, including accounting, tendering procedures, group leadership and so forth, these
entrepreneurs will be ready to take on increasingly sophisticated tasks.
MANAGING RANGELAND IN THE COMMUNAL AREAS OF SOUTH AFRICA
In South Africa, communal rangelands support approximately a quarter of the human population and half
the livestock population of the country. These high population pressures have resulted in degradation of
natural resources and decreased productivity. In the past, development initiatives aimed to achieve
sustainability through the control of excessive livestock numbers. These efforts failed because they clashed
with the basic reasons for which people were keeping cattle (milk, draft, security etc.). Following the 1994
democratic elections in South Africa, a number of new resource conservation and land management
programs have been initiated to deal with the problem of resource degradation. This report is an overview
of current issues (historical, social, ecological, and institutional) that need to be addressed to achieve
sustainable land management in communal areas.
1.    Historical issues
Traditionally the response of African pastoral societies to variable forage availability was to retain a high
degree of mobility (nomadic pastoralism). Increased population pressure and political changes have
contributed to the breakdown of this type of pastoralism.
With the implementation of the 1913 Land Act, rural people were settled into "homelands" and forced to
subsist either on marginal agricultural land or on high potential land which required large amounts of
capital and an in-depth knowledge of intensive production systems in order to use it effectively. Livestock
numbers began increasing beyond the carrying capacity of this rangeland and signs of over-utilization
became evident. In 1932 a Commission of Enquiry into the Agricultural Economy of "Bantu Reserves"
wamed that accelerated soil erosion through over-grazing was turning developing areas into deserts. This
led to the proclamation of "Betterment" Areas in 1939.
- 81 -



"Betterment" Planning
Many communal areas in South Africa were subjected to "betterment", which was implemented in the
1950's. Communal areas were divided into three main resource areas by planners who sought to impose a
"scientific" resource management regime. Each resource area had unique tenure arrangements and rules
(Von Maltitz 1998).
The homestead area
The traditional settlement pattern of scattered homesteads was replaced by villages. Each family was
allocated land on which to build their homestead. Tenure for this land was generally secure. It was common
for this area to be fenced and used for kraaling livestock, keeping poultry and growing fruit and vegetables.
The fields
Households had usage rights to specific fields. Tenure of this land was relatively secure and was allocated
by the "tribal authority". Rights to exclusive use of the fields was reserved for the summer months. In
winter the fields were used for communal grazing. All maize stalks (stover) were considered to be part of
the communal winter grazing resource. Fields could be reallocated under specific conditions such as
continued non-use. In some cases land was rented out.
Rangeland
This area was designated largely for summer grazing, but was also used for other resources such as water,
thatch grass, fuel wood, timber and medicinal plants. All members had access to this area, and use patterns
were controlled by local regulations. There was no limit to the number of livestock that an individual could
keep. In some areas permits were required to keep livestock, but these were not used to control numbers.
Although some communal areas still operate under the "betterment" system, it is no longer functioning in
many areas. The main reason for this was the top-down approach and lack of consultation with the people
on key issues such as fence boundaries.
Intervention in communal rangelands must focus on the people and make production an integral part of
sustainable land management.
Land reforrn in South Africa is currently underway to address the past history of unequal land distribution.
Many planners have called for privatization of land to stop overgrazing. However, in many cases resource
productivity per unit area is not high enough to guarantee the individual or group the retums needed to
sustain private property regimes. In addition, resource poor people that have been allocated private
property regimes may not be able to bear the cost that these systems impose. Turner (1995) suggests that
the solution to natural resource management problems in southem Africa is to be found in a combination of
institutional arrangements that combine the best attributes of private, common and state property.
New land policy therefore needs to take into account the diversity of conditions under which rangelands
are used in South Africa, the range of stakeholders involved and the variety of socio-economic conditions
under which rangelands are managed.
- 82 -



2.     Social issues
Past failures of development initiatives to solve the problems of environmental degradation in South Africa
have been attributed to the lack of consultation and involvement of the rural population. In the past, the
top-down approach to implementing management strategies excluded the local people from decision
making. Participation will empower people and give them a sense of ownership in managemrent decisions.
New conservation policies are based on the need to adopt more socially responsible methods of
conservation management.
Participatory methods must play a central role in development work in rural communities. Extension
officers must receive appropriate training in participatory methodology to work with the people in
participatory partnership.
3.     Ecological issues (range and livestock management)
When "betterment" was first initiated a destocking campaign was implemented by the government, but after
strong opposition this was discontinued. Traditionally, livestock management was the responsibility of the
men and herding was carried out by young boys. Today women play a major role in livestock management.
As men migrate to industrial and mining sites in search of jobs, women are left in rural areas as heads of
households. Although women's interactions with cattle have increased over the years, decisions on issues
such as slaughtering and selling are still vested with the men.
During the 1950's when "betterment" was implemented, the grazing area was fenced off from the cropping
area and individual grazing camps were also fenced. However, the fencing system has collapsed largely
through theft and lack of maintenance. It is clear that any cattle and rangeland management strategy will
require some mechanism to control cattle movement. Cattle movement can be controlled by physical
fencing or 'social' fencing such as herding.
Management of individual livestock herds on communal rangelands is largely exercised by herders and the
level of herding varies. Over much of South Africa the absence of young boys, who now attend school,
imposes a major limitation to livestock management, though in Lesotho large numbers of herders guard
access to grazing. Increased social development, including increased schooling, effects a breakdown in the
traditional herding system. This results in losses through the theft of stock and conflict between crop and
cattle owners when crops are destroyed by untended cattle. One solution to this may be a system based on
the Lesotho model whereby herders are paid, either in money or livestock, to look after livestock.
The grazing system in comnmunal rangelands closely follows the cropping cycle. During the cropping
season in sunmmer the cattle are moved away from the crop fields to graze on the surrounding natural
grasslands. Milk cows and calves are usually kept in the vicinity of the homesteads. In winter, following
harvest of the crops, the cattle graze on the maize stalks in addition to rangeland. Fodder shortage,
especially during the dry winter season, is one of the main constraints to livestock production. Agroforestry
species have the potential to provide an affordable fodder supplement for increasing cattle productivity.
Another problem that will have to be addressed by rangeland managers is the very skewed ownership of
livestock (De Bruyn 1998) and the tendency for a large proportion of the livestock to be in the hands of
absentee members employed in industry outside the communal area. The livestock which such individuals
accumulate in the communal area, primarily for the purpose of storing their wealth, denies the local
inhabitants of a large proportion of the resources of the rangeland.
- 83 -



*      Unequal livestock ownership must be recognized when planning range management strategies.
*     Alternatives to destocking (e.g. control of animal movement) need to be investigated.
*     Recognized agroforestry systems that are successful in other African countries should be adapted
for South African rangelands. The potential of alternative fodder crops needs to be investigated.
4.    Institutional issues
Communities dependent on comrnon property resources have adopted various institutional arrangements to
manage these resources. The varying degrees of success that have been achieved is dependent largely on the
effectiveness of the Tribal elders managing the communities under their control.
Local institutions are likely to be the key to future sustainable range management
In South Africa the protection and conservation of biodiversity has been carried out largely through the
creation of national parks with patrolled perimeters (Dikeni, Moorhead & Scoones 1996). Local
communities generally did not receive significant benefits from these areas and often had no access to the
resources. The KwaZulu-Natal Conservation Services is currently investing considerable financial and
manpower resources into involving local people and communities in the running of parks and in policy
decisions on how they should be managed. Processes are currently taking place whereby local boards are
created and community members can be appointed onto these boards to promote more effective regulation
of protected areas.
Communities surrounding protected areas should have the opportunity to benefitfrom such resources
(e.g. product harvesting, employment opportunities and revenue sharing) and be represented on
management bodies of such areas. The capacity of these communities needs to be built in areas of
conservation management and tourist development.
When the apartheid administration came to an end with South Africa's first democratic elections in 1994 a
niumber of studies were initiated to identify major environmental policy issues surrounding rangeland use.
The comerstone of development policy for the new South African Government is the Reconstruction and
Development program.
UJnder the current conditions of rapid change in South Africa, there is an urgent need to develop a local,
provincial and national policy framework based on continued input and negotiations amongst all
stakeholders in rangelands. The Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier project should play a key role in the
initiation of environmental projects and policy development surrounding rangeland use. It should work
within the framework of the Reconstruction and Development Program.
- 84 -



REFERENCES
Anon. 1990. National livestock policy implementation plan. The Lesotho National Livestock Task Force,
Maseru.
Anon. 1991. Ha Moshebi/Ha Ramatseliso vegetation analysis for transects 1-10 & 1-23 1987 vs. 1991.
Range Management Division, Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Marketing, Maseru.
Artz NE 1993. Local participation, equity and popular support in Lesotho's Range Management Area
Programme African Journal of Range and Forage Science 10:54-62.
Bainbridge WR, Motsamai B & Weaver LC 1991. Report of the Drakensberg/Maluti Mountain Catchment
Conservation Programme. Natal Parks Board, Pieternaritzburg.
Buzzard RF 1994. Assessing the sustainability of grazing associations in Lesotho. Presented at the second
Symposium of the Developing Areas Branch of the Grassland Society of Southern Africa, Maseru,
Lesotho.
De Bruyn T 1998. The condition, productivity and sustainability of communally grazed rangelands in the
central Eastem Cape Province. In: Proceedings of symposium on policy-making for the sustainable use of
southern African communal rangelands. University of Fort Hare, Alice: 248-257.
Dikeni L, Moorhead R & Scoones 1 1996. Land use and environmental policy in the rangelands of South
Africa: case studies from the Free State and Northern Province. LAPC Working Paper No. 38.
Dobb AJ 1985b. The organization of range use in Lesotho, Southern Africa: evaluation of attempted
modifications and case study. MSc thesis, Washington State University, Pullman.
Erskine JM 1993. Creating the right conditions for optimal management of grazing livestock and
sustainable use of grasslands in the less developed areas of southern Africa. Proceedings of the first
Developing Areas Symposium of the Grassland Society of Southern Africa, pp. 16-26.
Hartley D 1999. Final draft synthesis report of the Drakensberg/Maloti Mountains Conservation
Programme. Drakensberg/Maloti Mountains Conservation Programme. EDF Project (No. ACP LSO 024
& 031).
Ivy D & Turner S 1996. Range management areas and grazing associations - experience at Sehlabathebe
Lesotho. In: successful natural resource management in southern Africa. Gamsberg Macmillan Publishers,
Windhoek, Namibia.
Lyne MC & Nieuwoudt WL 1990. The real tragedy of the commons: livestock production in Kwazulu. The
South African Journal of Economics 58:88-96.
Morris CD 1994. Grazing management options for Lesotho Highlands - a brief review. Unpublished report.
Motsamai B 1991. Management of Conimunal Range Resources in Lesotho. In Portillo EM, Weaver LC &
Motsamai B (Eds). Planning for Management of Communal Natural Resources Affected by Livestock.
Range Management Division, Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Marketing, Lesotho.
- 85 -



National Livestock Development Study 1999. Phase 1 report. Government of Lesotho, Maseru.
National Forestry Action Programme 1995. Literature review and recommendations for future
interventions. Sechaba consultants, Maseru.
Sechaba Consultants (1999). Report on A Rapid Rural Appraisal of Six Villages in the District of
Mokhotlong. Drakensberg/Maloti Mountains Conservation Programme. EDF Project (No. ACP LSO 024
& 031).
Sekoto M 1990. Report on the Status of the Implementation of Mokhotlong/Sanqebethu Range
Management Area. Unpublished report, submitted to the Chief Range Management Officer, Range
Management Division
Shoup JA 1987. Transhumant pastoralism in Lesotho: case study of the Koeneng-Mapoteng ward. Range
Management Division, Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Marketing, Maseru.
Tshabalata MT 1994. The social organisation of range utilization and livestock production in Lesotho.
Presented at the second Symposium of the Developing Areas Branch of the Grassland Society of Southern
Africa, Maseru, Lesotho.
Tumer SD 1995. Common property resources and the rural poor in sub-Saharan Africa. International Fund
for Agricultural Development, Amsterdam.
Von Maltitz G 1998. Communal rangeland management options for the Okhombe community. In
Proceedings of symposium on policy-making for the sustainable use of southern African communal
rangelands. University of Fort Hare, Alice: 68-74.
Weaver LC 1987. Sehlabathebe Range Management Area: grazing management plan. Land Conservation
and Range Development Project, Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Marketing, Maseru.
Weaver LC & Sekoto MG 1991. Community-based natural resource management in Lesotho. Presented at
the International Congress of the Grassland Society of Southern Africa "Meeting Rangeland Challenges in
Southern Africa in the 1990s". Pretoria, South Africa.
- 86 -



Additional
Annex 13
Conservation Planning
A key component of the project is the provision of technical support for addressing the backlog of
conservation planning which serves as the framework for future management action. Building on
contemporary best practice in bioregional planning, and protected area management planning, the planning
process is a phased but also adaptive progression from the broad scale strategic plans to more detailed and
focused action plans.
Project activities dealing with conservation planning are divided into a nested hierarchical sequence of
conservation planning levels, encompassing the following components, but with crosscutting relevance to
all other project components:
Component 2:         Landscape level conservation planning for the Transfrontier Conservation and
Development Area;
Component 3:         Protected area planning for component protected areas and priority areas;
including
Sub-component 3.1    Conservation development planning and zonation;
Sub-component 3.2    Management planning;
Sub-component 3.3    Business planning;
Component 2:         Landscape level conservation planning for the Transfrontier Conservation
and Development Area
The preparatory studies generated extensive documentation and data regarding resources in the study area,
including physical, biological, social and economic resources and uses. The project concept is for a
transfrontier conservation and development area, which needs to be planned and zoned to ensure that areas
of global and national biodiversity importance are protected and managed appropriately. This requires that
a vision and strategy are prepared following further stakeholder consultation and with the involvement of
the relevant authorities on both sides of the border. Conceptual proposals for compatible land-use zonation
derived in the preparatory phase need to be negotiated and action plans prepared for implementation. This
implies conservation planning at the landscape level, and is designed to be facilitated by appropriate
professionals, and with the full involvement of the staff of the respective ministries and departments in both
countries. Deficiencies in data, particularly for biodiversity, were identified in preparation, and these will
be addressed by focused data collection and further analysis to confirm priority areas. At this scale, there
is also a need to harmonize to the greatest degree possible the approaches and activities of the five nature
conservation management agencies which have a responsibility in parts of the area, namely the
Conservation Division of the Lesotho MoA, and SANParks, KZNNCB, EC-DEAET, andFS-DEAT in
RSA.
Component 3:         Protected area planning for component protected areas and proposed
protected areas
There are two sets of areas where further detailed planning is required, namely existing protected areas and
proposed conservation areas. Planning is carried out in a number of phases, beginning with the overall
development and zonation plans for each area, then preparing detailed management programs and finally
- 87 -



addressing business planning and sustainability. These phases are described in more detail under each
sub-component below.
Sub-component 3.1   Protected area development planning and zonation
The nature conservation management agencies have been unable to obtain the resources, particularly of
manpower, to complete overall detailed conservation development plans for protected areas. In the
Ukhahlamba-Drakensberg Park, the assignment of nature conservation management to the provinces
enabled the consolidation of several separately proclaimed and managed protected areas and state forest
nature reserves and wilderness areas into a single entity. Management was rationalized accordingly, but a
long-outstanding component has been an overall concept development and zonation plan for the park,
which would ensure that protected area development takes place in an orderly way, that management
infrastructure is correctly placed and to provide a basis for the elaboration of management programs. This
exercise will entail the appraisal of all previous plans, the conduct of workshops with management staff
and with adjacent communities and the draffing of the appropriate maps and documentation. The statutory
requirement for this planning to undergo a public participation process demands expert facilitation. It is
through this process that managers build an understanding of the vision for the protected area in the
landscape, and the opportunities and constraints for management. The zonation plan and associated
schedules, which describe the limits of acceptable change become the basis for all future management and
development activities. It is usually unnecessary to revisit this level of planning, because the recurrent
nature of operational management plans ensures adaptation of the conceptual planning and zonation to
emerging circumstances.
Sub-component 3.2   Protected area management planning
The preparation and continual update of protected area management plans is an essential component to
guide the operational management of protected areas in an adaptive way. This exercise is usually
undertaken by the protected area management team including the specialist input of an ecologist and other
professionals. It is designed to determine the priority management programs for the effective management
of the resource and the activities which occur there, and encompasses:
*   Management to conserve biodiversity
*   Community conservation programs
*   Visitor facilities management
*   Protected area administration (security, infrastructure, communications etc.)
*   Research and information
Objectives are determined for each within the policy framework and zonation established above,
management options are detailed and discussed, action plans for implementation are developed, monitoring
programs are devised and implemented and essential research is conducted. This allows the management
team to adaptively implement management programs in pursuit of the protected area objectives and vision.
Once the first version of the management plan is in place, it is the management team which will implement
and adaptively develop the plan further. The preparatory work for developing this project concept
docurnent identified several deficiencies in the existing plans. New areas which are being developed
together with communities will require more extensively facilitated planning processes, once the earlier
consultations have been conducted.
- 88 -



Sub-component 3.3   Protected area business plans
Nature conservation management agencies have traditionally managed areas on the basis of budgets derived
from government subsidies. Whereas, it is likely that subsidies will continue to provide core funding for
biodiversity management, there is an increasing requirement to develop alternative sources of conservation
funding, preferably through the sustainable use of the resource base and the leverage of funds in other
ways. Business plans also encompass the human resources and organizational systems, which need to be in
place to effective management. Areas of interest for this activity include the need to optimize the returns
from the use of the resource base e.g. by tourists, to make contributions to both biodiversity management
and community development. A key strategy adopted in KwaZulu-Natal has been to ensure that
nature-based tourism generates sufficient revenues for this, but this has also required the development of
appropriate business models to incorporate private sector investment and conmmunity equity in
developments based in or adjacent to protected areas. The business planning component of the project
activities will investigate all possible options for sustainable financing, and provide a basis for the effective
management of these resources to meet performance targets. In the context of new protected areas, it will
also be necessary to demonstrate that the option of conservation/nature-based tourism will generate greater
benefits than the current subsistence land-uses. For Sehlabathebe National Park, it will be necessary to
fulfill promises that the protected area will generate greater benefits than the former use of the rangeland
for cattle production. Business planning expertise will be required to supplement the conservation planning
and management teams to achieve this greater level of sophistication in planning.
Envisaged methods, activities and costs, and sustainability
The preparatory studies considered and costed these planning steps as a series of specialist consultancies.
The project preparation has preferred to adopt the approach of building capacity in the respective agencies
by establishing and managing a conservation planning support team to work interactively with park
managers and communities through each phase in the planning process, and so build capacity through
participatory learning and action. Specialist expertise, e.g. for cartography, will be needed, but the whole
effort will be supported by the envisaged team, including protected area managers, ecologist, conservation
planner, social ecologist, technical support and information management expertise. A preliminary
breakdown of the roles and responsibilities of these support teams is provided in Table 1 below. For each
major activity, it is envisaged that any additional specialist skills required, will be sourced through
consultant services.
In terms of sustainability after the end of the project period, it is considered that there will be a continuing
need for ecological advice to protected area management and specialist expertise for community
conservation programs in Lesotho. Planned appointments in the Conservation Division of the Ministry of
Agriculture (1 ecologist) will partially meet this need, but there will be a need for a further ecologist at least
to ensure long-term sustainability. This is within the capacity of Lesotho to put in place. In MEGYA,
there will be a need for the Community Outreach program to include at least one Social Ecologist. The
foundations of this support are already in place in the Ministry and will be sustainable after the completion
of the project.
In South Africa, there will be long-term need to sustain the additional community conservation activities in
the Upper Thukela, Eastern Cape and Qwaqwa sections of the study area. In the Upper Thukela, the
KZNNCB has agreed in principle to expand the community conservation program and has already
expanded the professional support unit based in Pietermaritzburg. There will be a need for continued
support from NGOs who are already active in the Eastern Cape and Upper Thukela areas, but revenues
- 89 -



from water use of these catchments is already being used to support community conservation action, and
will be sustained.
The other support units will not be required after the project activities are complete as a firm strategic and
management planning framework will have been achieved. The conservation agencies will be able to
maintain the ongoing activities with existing resources.
Table 1. Project components and specialized support unit composition and responsibilities
Project component     Biodiversity       Planning support    Social ecology    Counterpart
conservation      team                support team      resources
support team
Team composition      ecologist (I LS, I   conservation planner  social scientist (1   ecologist (I LS, 6
RSA); technician   (I LS, 2 RSA);     LS, 1 RSA);        RSA)
(2 LS, I RSA);    technician (I Les, 1   extension staff (3   conservation planner
field assistants (3   RSA)            LS, 2 RSA); cty.   (1 RSA); social
Les, 3 RSA)                           facilitators (18   scientist (I RSA);
LS, 18 RSA)       extension staff (2
RSA)
Component 2:          Address           Integrate            Continue          Biodiversity,
Landscape-level       information       biophysical, social   consultation with   ecological advice
conservation planning   deficits        & economic info.    key stakeholders    and planning staff
Spatial analysis of  Derive opportunities  Contribute to  (KZNNCB).
biodiversity      & constraints.      design of          Community
components and    Cartography         community based   conservation team
processes                             data collection    (SANParks,
KZNNCB)
Management staff
(all agencies).
Ecologist (LS)
Component 3:
Protected area planning
3,1                   Identification of    Undertake resource   Conduct public  Protected area
Development planning   priority         analysis and         involvement       management is fully
and zonation          components        strategic           program            involved
environmental
assessment
3.2                   Design of         Facilitate mngmt.    Integrate local   All protected area
Management planning   appropriate       planning workshops.  boards & other    managers
monitoring        Set standards &     stakeholder
programs          review              interests. Training
documentation       workshops
- 90 -



3.3                                    Specialist advice
Business planning                      required
Component 4:         Ecological advice   Planning advice   Social scientist  All protected area
Conservation                                               advice            managers
management in PAs
Component 5:         Ecological advice   Planning advice   Social scientist  All protected area
Conservation                                               advice. Extensive   managers
management in                                              consultative
proposed protected                                         process planned &
areas                                                      implemented
Community trg.
Component 6.                                               Community         Community
Community                                                  conservation pgm.  conservation team
conservation                                               designed, trg.    (KZNNCB)
conducted & cty.   Social ecology team
consultation     (SANParks)
effective         Community outreach
(NES)
Component 7.         Ecological advice   Planning advice and   Cty. consultation   Conservation
Nature-based tourism    and review of  review of plans     & involvement     planner (KZNNCB)
planning             plans                                 Community trg.
Contribute to &
review social
impact assessment
Component 8.                                               Support for local   Community
Institutional                                              boards & other    conservation team
development                                                cty. conservation   (KZNNCS)
forums
- 91 -



Additional
Annex 14
Nature-based Tourism in Lesotho and South Africa
Lesotho
The Ministry of Tourism has decided to elaborate a national tourism policy. This is seen as a necessary
precursor to the passing of the Tourism Development and Incentives 2000 Bill. The Bill provides for the
establishment of the Lesotho Development Corporation as a body corporate. All income to the Corporation
is applied to the promotion of tourism, with no dividend paid to the, shareholder (GoL). The Lesotho
Tourist Board will be abolished once the Bill is passed. It also allows for the designation of specific areas
for tourism development, where land can be sub-let to entrepreneurs. The Bill provides the legal basis for
incentives to the tourism sector.
In 1994 a consultant report, commissioned by the European Union, outlining a comprehensive Tourism
Development Plan for the Kingdom of Lesotho was submitted to the Ministry of Tourism, Sports and
Culture. In the absence of a formal policy, this document is often referred to as providing guidance. The
report proposed an ambitious program of activities to develop the tourism industry in Lesotho.
Unfortunately, little of the plan has been implemented. The lack of plan implementation appears to flow
from several factors. The national tourism bodies are small and poorly financed, and the tourism functions
of central government are fragmented. The private business sector is particularly weak in tourism.
The Lesotho Tourism Board statistics on tourist arrivals from 1981 to 1998 show that visitor arrival
increased over the period, peaked, then declined. The highest arrival numbers occurred in 1992, with
416,882 arrivals. The numbers dropped down to an estimated 225,000 in 1998. The majority of arrivals
are traveling for visiting of friends and relatives, with South Africans constituting the vast majority of
foreign travelers. Very small numbers of non-African international visitors arrive in Lesotho. In 1998 only
1,016 came from the Americas, 4,266 from Europe and 1,053 from Asia and Oceania. This is in stark
contrast to the explosive development of South African tourism. Already existing visitor numbers to the
Drakensberg area is in the order of 300,000 per year.
There are important constraints to the development and operation of tourism in Lesotho. The
accommodation capacity is small. As of 1998 there were only 24 hotels, 21 lodges and 8 hostels in the
country, providing 1500 rooms and 3800 beds. This small capacity, and its concentration in Maseru,
severely limits travel in the country, and particularly in the Maloti-Drakensberg transfrontier region.
Generally there is a poor standard of accommodation, with the majority of rooms being in small hotels with
only very basic standards. Service in the industry is weak, with a lack of training in tourist service workers.
Business management skills are weak, leading to tourism management problems. The low tourism volumes
provide little incentive for an upgrading of the private business tourism sector.
Through 1998 and into the first part of 1999 considerable effort was placed into the restructuring of the
legal structure governing tourism, tourism development and incentives. A major consultancy report
recommended sweeping changes to the legislative framework governing tourism management in Lesotho. A
total of 118 recommendations were made. A new Tourism Development bill is recommended, and a draft
bill is included in the report. This bill sets out expLicitly the functions of the Ministry of Tourism Sport and
Culture, and the relationships of this Ministry to other Ministries. The report recommends that the Lesotho
- 92 -



Tourist Board Act be repealed and that a new Tourism Promotion and Development Corporation be
established.
The documented problems reveal that in Lesotho the entire legal structure surrounding business
development, property law, insurance regulation, conflict resolution, loan guarantees and tourism
regulation must be upgraded if the private sector is to be enticed to fully contribute to tourism in Lesotho.
Such legal restructuring is being considered in the country and must be encouraged to continue to
completion. There can be a constructive role in this process for the World Bank. The complementary
AfDB project will make a major contribution to tourism policy and implementation, particularly in the
LHWP areas.
South Africa
A very high proportion (60%) of all foreign tourists to South Africa visit a game reserve or national park,
revealing the very important element that parks and game reserves play in the attraction and management of
foreign tourists. The country has several very large park systems. The South African National Parks
agency manages 16 parks covering 3.1 million hectares. In 1997/98 these sites catered to 1.5 million
visitors, of which 31% were foreigners. The KwaZulu-Natal Nature Conservation Board manages 80 sites,
covering almost 0.7 million hectares. In 1997/98 they serviced 1.1 million visitors, of which 13.2% were
foreigners. The Free State DEAT manages 16 PAs comprising a total area of close to 0.2 million hectares.
There are an estimated 300 private game lodges in South Africa, with about 9,000 rooms and 18,000 beds.
These private lodges cater to the upper level of the price and service levels. The parks cater to a more
modest level of price and service. Many of the private game reserves are located adjacent to
government-owned parks. The private reserves take advantage of the ecological benefit obtained from being
near the parks, and provide significant levels of additional environmental protection by providing wildlife
habitat
In terms of nature-based tourism, South Africa has excellent natural assets. It has a very good range of
natural-environment types, from ocean shores to mountain heights. It has a solid set of national parks and
other types of protected areas, run by both national and provincial agencies, that provide experiences,
tourism infrastructure and site management at world class levels. The transportation infrastructure,
international airports, regional and local roads are the best in Africa. But most importantly, South Africa
has a sophisticated and modem tourism business system that enables the country to penetrate international
markets to a significant degree.
Within the study area in South Africa, the nature-based tourism industry is mature. The KwaZulu-Natal
parks have decades of experience, with a corresponding tourism market profile. Golden Gate, managed by
South African National Parks, is also important. There is a mature industry of hotels, farm stays, vehicle
rentals, guiding companies, information providers and voluntary groups in the area. Within environmentally
significant areas that are not parks, important tourism feasibility studies and discussions with local people
are well advanced. The work underway in the Mnweni Valley is a good example of such work.
Economic Assessment and Development Planning
As part of the preparatory studies commissioned by the project preparatory phase, Associates for
Economic Development (AfED, 1999) carried out a study with the title as above. Among the key findings
of this voluminous report is that "a nature based tourism industry can be developed in the
Maloti-Drakensberg region that can provide significant economic upliftment and biodiversity protection."
- 93 -



However, the authors caution that ecotourism alone will be insufficient to meet the vast economic needs of
the population in the area. They estimate that such tourism can bring about 10,000-15,000 visitors to the
project study area in Lesotho. In order to reach much higher impacts, and attract in the order of 200,000
visitors per annum to the Maloti area, considerable investment in roads ($25 m) and supporting
infrastructure ($3m) is needed. In addition, considerable private sector investment in bed capacity (around
600 beds for $14 m) would be needed. Product club development and effective marketing are other
necessary ingredients.
The project team takes note of these observations, but must shape its proposals within the mandate of GEF.
Hence, only investment that supports biodiversity conservation through the development of nature-based
tourism that generates alternative livelihoods for local communities are included in the current project.
Even a flow of 15,000 visitors to the Maloti mountain areas would imply considerable local economic
opportunities, in relation to what is currently available.
- 94 -



Additional
Annex 15
Financial Management Action Plan (South Africa)
1- GENERAL
Reporting to the Chief Executive of KZNNCB and under the supervision of a Project Coordinator, a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established at KZNNCB with responsibility for ensuring that
financial management, procurement and reporting procedures will be acceptable to Government and the
World Bank.
The PCU's financial management system (FMS) must support management in their deployment of limited
resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs
required to achieve desired outcomes. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing timely,
understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable management to-plan, implement,
monitor and appraise the Project's overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives.
For the PCU to deliver on the aforementioned objectives, its financial management system will be
developed in accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan presented in Section 2 below.
2 - FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
2.1 Financial Management Committee (FMC)
A representative FMC will be appointed to review the Project Management Report (PMR) every quarter.
The PMR will comprise:
Financial Statements, as discussed below. Members of the FMC will review and approve Quarterly and
Annual Financial Statements; they will also examine material variances between budget/actual figures,
seeking remedial action as appropriate within an agreed timeframe.
Project Progress, i.e., Output Monitoring Report (OMR). The format and details of the OMR will need to
be developed. An important aspect of the OMR will be the accompanying narrative interpreting the
project's progress with agreed financial performance indicators and how costs to date relate to those
planned at appraisal, and the likely effect on the Project by completion.
Procurement Management (including Goods, Works and Services)
2.2 Staffing
A Project Accountant will be appointed to direct and guide the financial operations. A Procurement
Specialist as well as administrative and support staff will be in place. Varying levels of staff training will
be required in financial, management and government accounting; information systems and computer
applications; and procedures relating to utilization of funds (e.g., Special Accounts, SOEs, Special
Commitments, procurement, etc.). On-the-job coaching will also be provided.
- 95 -



Financial Procedures Manual/Internal Audit
The Project Accountant, in consultation with the Project Coordinator, will document the internal control
systems in a Financial Procedures Manual.
Project activities will be reviewed by the Internal Audit Section of KZNNCB.
2.3 Accounting System and Information Technology
The Project Accountant will introduce a spreadsheet system (Excel) to facilitate timely accounting for the
GEF Grant and Counterpart Funds.
Provision has been made in the Budget for hardware and software requirements.
2.4 Planning and Budgeting
Counterpart Funding will be approved in line with the Government's, KZNNCB and other executing
agencies budgetary processes. The Project Accountant, in consultation with the Project Coordinator and
FMC, will be responsible for preparing the Project's Quarterly/Annual Cash Flow Forecast.
Members of the FMC will review and approve Quarterly and Annual Project Financial Statements; they
will examine material variances between budgetlactual figures - seeking remedial action, as appropriate,
within an agreed timeframe.
Arrangements for Non-cash Counterpart Contributions by Government, KZNNCB and other executing
agencies will be finalized during negotiations.
2.5 Government Accounting-Cash Versus Accruals
As the Project must meet the Governnent's requirement for cash accounting, Project funds will be
accounted for on a cash basis. This requirement is not expected to change in the short to medium term. In
due course, for management reporting purposes, the FMC will decide whether to convert to an accruals
basis of accounting.
2.6 Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
The Project will comply with World Bank and Government procurement regulations. The Project
Accountant and support staff will be conversant with those procedures, as internal control issues and the
incurring of liabilities on behalf of the Project will be matters of concern to the financial management
function.
A Procurement Management Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments, will be
prepared quarterly for consideration by the FMC (see above).
Procurement procedures will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
- 96 -



2. 7 Banking Activities-Flow Of Funds
The PCU will maintain 4 accounts as follows:
(a) A Current A/C in Rand with Bank X (Part 1 Account) to which draw-downs from the Special A/C will
be credited for Project administrative expenses.
(b) A Current Project Account in Rand with Bank X (Part 2 Account) to which Counterpart Funding will
be deposited. Initially, a three months float should be provided and, thereafter, it should be replenished
monthly.
(c) Special Account with Bank X in US Dollars/Rand, that will show:
*   Dollar/Rand cost of transfers to Part I Account with Bank X;
*   Dollar/Rand cost of direct payments to suppliers;
*   Dollar advances (Rand equivalent cost) from the GEF Grant Account;
*   Opening and Closing Balances.
(d) GEF Grant Account (Washington) in US Dollars/Rand/SDR, that will show:
*   Cost of transfers to Bank X;
*   Cost of direct payments to suppliers;
*   Opening and Closing Balances.
Bank accounts will be reconciled monthly and will be approved by the Project Coordinator; identified
differences will be expeditiously investigated. Control procedures will be documented in the Financial
Procedures Manual.
2.8 Withdrawals/Disbursements
By effectiveness, the PCU will not be ready for PMR-based disbursements (World Bank's Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook, LACI, September 1998). Thus, in the short tenn, existing
disbursement procedures as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook will be followed, i.e.
Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitment. However, the timely appointment of the Project
Accountant, coupled with the development of the PUC's financial management system, should facilitate the
introduction of PMR-based disbursements within 18 months of credit effectiveness.
LACI/PMR integrates project accounting, procurement, contract management, disbursement and audit with
physical progress through the Project Management Report (PMR), as summarized above. In due course,
the adoption of LACI/PMR by the PCU will enable it to move away from time-consuming
voucher-by-voucher disbursement methods to quarterly disbursements to the Project's Special Account,
based on the PMR.
2.9 Fixed Assets/Civil Works and Inventories
A Fixed Assets Register will be prepared using Excel, regularly updated and checked. Regarding
Construction/Capital Work in Progress, controls will be established to ensure that payments are made only
for certified work (including physical verification). Contract Status Reports will be prepared quarterly for
consideration by the FMC as part of the PMR referred to above.
- 97 -



2.10 Financial Reporting (Monthly and Quarterly/Annually)
Monthly Cash Reporting
The Project Accountant will be responsible for the timely preparation of a Monthly Status of Funds Report
for submission to the National Accountant General, the Project Coordinator as well as the Financial
Accountant of KZNNCB.
Quarterly/Annually
The Financial Statements, following determination by the FMC, are likely to include:
* A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds by Loan Category/by Activity;
* Project Balance Sheet as at the reporting date;
* Notes on significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management when
preparing the accounts; and on any supplementary informnation or explanations that may be deemed
appropriate by management to enhance the presentation of a "true and fair view";
* Special Account Statement/Reconciliation showing deposits and replenishments received, payments
substantiated by withdrawal applications, interest that may be earned on the account and the balance at
the end of the fiscal year;
* SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to disbursements by
the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
3 A Cash Forecast for the next two quarters.
Indicative formats for Financial Statements are outlined in a number of World Bank publications -
Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH, January 1995), The Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998) and the Draft Project Financial
Management Manual (February 1999).
2.11 External Audit
An Extemal Auditor will be appointed in consultation with the Office of the Auditor General (Public
Finance Management Act 1999, Part 4, Section 58) on terms of reference acceptable to the World Bank
(including the preparation of a separate Management Letter giving observations and comments, and
providing recommendations for improvements of accounting records, systems, controls and compliance
with financial covenants).
- 98 -



IRRG 30852
15-    201~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To80c   
ROADS                      B~OTS WANA'                                   /        -
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                               T                                                 8520
-  -PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                         Serow          OR2
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                'TA  V~A                                                                                                                  -AFR-                                      -
-25'                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.  oooc- -                                  
OCEAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA THK
___   Of                    BaA     8~~~~~~~~~~~L  1?0  250   300 KILOMETERS
5'                                           'J"~~/29''~ lko                                                      -
SOUTH    AFRICA                               Aroo of mop---------- I  SOUTH  AFRICA,/ LESOTHO8                                 -                                               --r-2''
MALOTI-DRAKENSBERG                                             0
rAc  ~              ~                X~~'t   CONSERVATION AND   -'~>                                                                                                                      ""
OF'-     -"-Of'                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Son, ToP IOIODVERDITYPPRORITY AREAS                                                                                                 iaeiIe 
TO  _   ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~  "~~~~~~ ~COMMERaAL AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY & GRAZING                                                                                                                                     - 
Saa      hb                                                     V ELD/GRAZING
-                              F~~~~~~~~~~~~ROJECT FROTECTED AREAS
' % -'!                         f<-~~~~~~~~~ ~~~"~~" I   ~~~   COIMMERCIALINDUSTRIALIeor
SshkboA,he -                  ~~~~~~SUBSISTENCE AGRICULTURE & GRAZING                                                                                                                      ee30D
*  -  _____________                            -        iso'       -,~~~~~~~~~~~~~   RANGE MANAGEMENT AREAS
T.-)rA\.~-                                                                                   GRAING cOUNDARIES
9r. NIOOrO.I  YAA                I        -   -   F~~~~~~~~~PEPARATORY FHASE FOCUS AREANiiolVi
&Qod,icc   L,cL--  ROADS ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ MAN RAD
AScaI rdooh  \   .         0   NAZI~~~SONADS APA                                                                                                                                                                                           Source: EcriroMap
0,ono' To ~~~~7m'E  5       0  S~~ELECTED) TOWNS AND CITIES           -'-K-RIVEES                                                                                                                                                        YE600-5o'doh nA
INTERNATIOA  ONAIS---   PROUINCIAL cOUNRDARIES                                                                                                                                                          cMo, D0 0,0 M cd I6, WoolS co-k
RIVERS                            INT~~~~~~~~~ERNATIONAL ROUNDARESadr'ArAF,ao lao
SOUTH    AFRICA  G'aanclono   ->  RIYERS~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,- d     ,l   6 . 
0      05    5E KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                     T.Wl -   -
6                                 E~    ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ 1 0  2E  30  40  50                                                                                                              \R  ol oo  ooo o5--r.r
MILdEESY        3r7 cdorI Io.I or -o.to oF
27                                                           29SI                                        BKLOMETERS                                                                                                                                                          MATb2000
21'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MY20



