      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      UY Promoting Innovation to Enhance Compe (P095520)



                                                                                                                  Report Number : ICRR0020090


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                             Project Name
 P095520                                                UY Promoting Innovation to Enhance Compe

 Country                                                Practice Area(Lead)
 Uruguay                                                Education



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                       Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-74450                                            15-Dec-2012                                                               32,500,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  01-May-2007                                           12-Jun-2015

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                     Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                             26,000,000.00                                                            0.00

  Revised Commitment                                              26,000,000.00                                                            0.00

  Actual                                                          26,000,000.00                                                            0.00




 Sector(s)
 Tertiary education(47%):General industry and trade sector(42%):Central government administration(11%)

 Theme(s)
 Education for the knowledge economy(40%):Technology diffusion(40%):Export development and competitiveness(20%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Judith Hahn Gaubatz                 Judyth L. Twigg                     Joy Behrens                          IEGHC (Unit 2)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    According to the Loan Agreement (page 6), the project objective was as follows:



       • To strengthen the Borrower's capacity to generate, transfer, and adapt knowledge and technology by supporting: (a) the
       institutional framework for science, technology and innovation (STI); (b) investments in human capital and high-quality research teams; (c)
       technology transfer and private sector innovation; and (d) cross-sectoral and international research collaboration and mobility of
       researchers between public institutions and the productive sector.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          UY Promoting Innovation to Enhance Compe (P095520)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     Yes


     Did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
     No



c.   Components
     1. Support STI Policies and Institutional Strengthening (Appraisal: US$ 3.1 million; Actual: US$ 9.3 million): This component aimed to
     establish a more coherent policy and institutional framework for science, technology and innovation (STI). Activities included:
     consultations on and development of the National Strategy for STI; establishment of the National Research and Innovation Agency
     (Agencia Nacional de Investigacion e Innovacion - ANII), which would implement national innovation policies, including the disbursement
     of grants for STI projects; and establishment of a National Observatory, which would track data on key innovation indicators and conduct
     evaluative studies.

     2. Build Human Capital and High-Quality Research Teams (Appraisal: US$ 16.65 million; Actual: US$ 18.3 million): This component aimed
     to develop new knowledge and technology by increasing the stock of advanced human capital and research. Activities included: grant
     support for multi-disciplinary STI research projects; scholarships for undergraduate and post-graduate STI studies; placement of young
     researchers in industry firms; and strengthening of technical tertiary education programs.

     3. Promote Innovation and Technology Transfer to the Productive Sector (Appraisal: US$ 11.5 million; US$ 4.5 million): This component
     aimed to promote technology transfer by firms and increase collaboration between the public and private sectors. Activities included:
     creation of Sector Technology Centers, which would facilitate transfer of existing technologies to industry firms; and establishment of
     research consortia in areas of strategic importance.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project cost

          • The actual project cost was US$ 32.5 million, which was equivalent to the appraised cost.
          • Actual costs for Component 1 (Support STI Policies) were higher than appraised. The reason is not provided in the ICR.
          • Actual costs for Component 2 (Build Human Capital) were higher than appraised due to high demand for scholarships and thus
          expansion of that activity. A Project Preparation Facility grant had not been fully disbursed, and therefore those unused funds were
          reallocated to Component 2 for scholarships.
          • Actual costs for Component 3 (Promote Innovation) were lower than appraised due to slow uptake of public-private partnership
          activities and a consequent shift to smaller, more informal (thus, lower financial commitment) collaborations.



     Financing

          • The project was financed by an IBRD Loan of US$ 26.0 million, which disbursed in full.



     Borrower contribution

          • The Borrower provided full counterpart funding of US$ 6.5 million.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       UY Promoting Innovation to Enhance Compe (P095520)



    Dates

       • January 2008: The Loan Agreement was amended to eliminate interest waivers and specify the front-end fee amount.
       • December 2008: The Loan Agreement was amended to formally designate ANII as the implementing agency.
       • June 2010: The project was restructured to allow a new project activity (support for the scientific journal international
       database, TIMBO) and to revise the results framework. The latter included shifting focus of indicators from the larger-
       scale Technology Centers and Research Consortia to smaller Alliances and Networks.
       • June 2012: The project was restructured again to reallocate proceeds, which expanded the number of scholarships awarded. The
       project closing date was extended from December 2012 to December 2014. The results framework was also revised, with upward
       revision of targets.
       • August 2014: The project closing date was extended from December 2014 to June 2015 to allow for completion of activities. There
       were also some minor modifications to the results framework.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   The objectives under both the original and revised targets were highly relevant to country conditions, Government strategy, and Bank
   strategy. Although the country of Uruguay has been experiencing macroeconomic stability and GDP growth in recent years, it remains in a
   slow-growth economic pattern. A primary challenge is to boost productivity (i.e. growth in output per worker), particularly through technological
   progress and an improved investment climate. At the time of project appraisal, the Government's National Development Program for 2005-
   2009 called for enhancing productivity and introducing innovation. These priorities aimed to address low investment in science, technology,
   and innovation (STI), the lack of a coherent and coordinated STI program and policy framework, the lack of advanced human capital, and a
   research agenda driven by researchers without sufficient linkages to the productive sector. The objectives were generally aligned with the
   Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for FY2006-2010, under the key challenge area of "sustaining growth," and they remain consistent with
   the current Bank's Country Partnership Framework for FY 2016-2020, which more specifically identifies the integration into global value chains
   as one of three key pillars (including increasing research and development opportunities).




   Rating                                                                              Revised Rating
   High                                                                                High


b. Relevance of Design

   Planned project activities were logically and plausibly linked to the development objectives under both the original and revised targets. The
   project design supported both policy frameworks and direct interventions to develop advanced human capital. This simultaneous approach
   was likely to develop the country's capacity to generate and transfer knowledge and technology. The project design aimed to formalize the
   policy and institutional setting to promote innovation, including developing a national strategy for STI and collaborative links between
   researchers and the productive sector. A key activity was the creation of the national agency for innovation (ANII) to implement those policies -
   project implementation responsibilities would be transferred to this new agency once its technical and fiduciary capacity has been well-
   established. Direct interventions to develop human capital included financial support to tertiary students and researchers to undertake research
   and development in fields relevant to the productive sector and establishment of consortia and technology centers to facilitate the transfer of
   knowledge and technology.

   While these project outputs were likely to set up conditions to promote innovation, some of the intended outcomes were not likely to
   materialize within the project period. These include R&D investment funding, researchers in the private sector, and patents.




   Rating                                                                              Revised Rating
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            UY Promoting Innovation to Enhance Compe (P095520)



       Substantial                                                                          Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To strengthen the Borrower's capacity to generate knowledge and technology.

    Rationale
    Outputs

        • Financing of 142 research projects (original target: 14; revised targets: 84, 134). Topics included road safety, healthy pregnancy,
        drug addiction, economic development in small towns, energy, agro-industry, fisheries, and digital media.
        • Creation of 5 graduate programs, in the areas of management of technology firms, engineering, family and community medicine, and
        alimentary technology (original target: 6).
        • Support to 14 existing graduate programs (original target: 15, revised target: 21), including in curriculum design, teacher training, and
        equipment. Support was also provided to an additional 13 technical programs in tertiary education.
        • Provision of 1,138 scholarships for undergraduate students (original target: 175; revised targets: 660, 1,000).



    The following outputs are relevant for both project objectives:

        • Establishment of the National Research and Innovation Agency (ANII), whose main role is to provide financial and technical
        assistance to promote innovation and opportunities for knowledge exchange. The share of firms obtaining an innovation grant from ANII
        (out of all firms obtaining an innovation grant from the public sector) increased from 20% in 2007-2009 to 50% in 2010-2012. 69% of
        supported researchers and 73% of supported firms reported they would not have been able to execute their STI activities without ANII
        support (source: 2013 beneficiary survey).
        • Elaboration of the National Strategy for STI, including workshops to convene key stakeholders in STI, and preparation of strategic
        documents. The Strategy was approved by ministerial decree in 2010 and identifies areas for targeted investment (information and
        communication technology, biotechnology, agroindustry, and tourism).
        • Establishment of the National Observatory (within ANII) for monitoring and evaluation the STI sector. 28 evaluation studies were
        conducted or contracted by the National Observatory (original target 12; revised targets: 14, 20), and 35 different indicators were
        monitored by the Observatory, including on human resources, financing, innovations, and STI culture. The Observatory was originally
        planned to be incubated as an M&E unit within ANII and then promoted as an independent institution. However, the ICR reports that
        due to lack of political consensus, this promotion did not take place.



    Outcomes

        • The number of scientific articles published internationally by Uruguayan researchers increased from 653 in 2010 to 1,263 in 2014.
        This surpassed the original target of 708 and the revised target of 1,000. The number of international co-authored articles per
        researcher in project-supported teams increased from 0.48 in 2010 to 0.60 in 2015. This achieved the original target of 0.58.
        • The average number of Science Citation Index (SCI) publications per researcher in project-support teams increased from 0.70 in 2010
        to 0.93 in 2015. This achieved the original target of 0.77.
        • The number of graduates from domestic master's and PhD programs increased from 179 in 2003 to 933 in 2014. This surpassed the
        original target of 240, the first revised target of 300, and the second revised target of 600.
        • Findings from a 2014 ANII evaluation of the post-graduate research program included the following: 85% of recipients were involved
        in producing scientific publications; 75% of recipients had the opportunity to present research findings in conferences and workshops;
        95% of those who found employment were in research; and 74% were working in fields closely related to their research areas financed
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            UY Promoting Innovation to Enhance Compe (P095520)



        by the scholarships.
        • Findings from a 2012 ANII evaluation of the undergraduate scholarship program included the following: 73% of recipients completed
        their bachelor's degree programs, compared to 60% of non-recipients; 62% of recipients obtained research-related employment; and
        34% of recipients (who were employed prior to receiving the scholarship) experienced wage increases.



    Performance of ANII

        • The total amount of resources (national and external financing) executed by ANII increased from US$ 5.5 million in 2008 to US$ 37.0
        million in 2014.
        • The average time to process ANII grant proposals (from closing the call for proposals to final selection) decreased from 5.7 months to
        4.4 months. This fell short of the target of 4.0 months. Excluding processing of the Sectoral Fund proposals, which involves convening
        an external committee of research institutions, the average time was 3.5 months.
        • Satisfaction levels with the support received by ANII at various stages of subproject process and suitability of the financing support
        instrument was 92% for individual researchers and 95.5% for firms/institutions.



    Achievement of the objective under the original targets is rated Substantial due to evidence of increased generation of knowledge
    and meeting of nearly all targets.




    Rating
    Substantial




    Revised Objective
    This objective was not changed. Outcome targets were revised.

    Revised Rationale
    Targets for several key outcome indicators were revised upward in 2012 and 2014 to reflect progress to date and the extended
    implementation period. See above for outcomes compared to revised targets.

    Achievement of the objective under the first revised targets is rated Substantial due to evidence of increased generation of knowledge
    and meeting of targets.

    Achievement of the objective under the second revised targets is rated Substantial due to evidence of increased generation of knowledge
    and meeting of targets.




    Revised Rating
    Substantial

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     To strengthen the Borrower's capacity to transfer and adapt knowledge and technology.
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      UY Promoting Innovation to Enhance Compe (P095520)



Rationale
Outputs

   • Establishment of public-private partnerships between universities and industry firms, including funding to pursue solutions to
   technology and innovation challenges. 21 "Alliances" were formed for a fixed term to develop a specific solution; 5 "Sector Technology
   Networks" were formed for a longer-term period to address ongoing challenges to increasing productivity in particular industries.
   • Creation of five sector technology centers, which functioned as physical spaces for STI specialists to offer technology services to
   industry firms.
   • Support for access to a scientific journal international database (TIMBO). The number of articles downloaded from TIMBO increased
   from 146,961 in 2009 to 316,078 in 2014.



Outcomes

   • 44 project-supported researchers received partial scholarships to work in private sector industries, including in wind generation, smart
   grid development, health diagnosis, forestry, and electric utilities. This achieved the original target of 40, and the revised targets of 10
   and 25. The original target was scaled down significantly due to the closing of a particular type of scholarship financed by ANII.
   However, the target was subsequently revised upward again due to better-than-expected results and the extended project
   implementation period.
   • 8 technological innovations/process improvements were transferred to the productive sector, including molecular diagnosis of
   disease, veterinary vaccinations, and quality control for dairy and biopharmaceuticals. This achieved the original target of 5 and the
   revised target of 7.
   • According to the GII Index (an innovation index developed by the World Economic Forum), the following improvements were observed
   nationwide in the period 2007-2015: university-industry collaboration in R&D increased by 37%; companies' spending on R&D increased
   by 11%; firm-level technological absorption increased by 10%; and foreign direct investment and technology transfer increased by 8%.
   The ICR (page 16) suggests that the limited scale of the Uruguayan innovation system makes the attribution of Bank support significant,
   and that the figures above likely capture the spillover effects of the project; however, there is insufficient evidence to verify this claim.



Achievement of the objective is rated Substantial due to linkages established between the public and private sectors, which would likely
lead to transfer and adaption of knowledge and technology.


Rating
Substantial




Revised Objective
This objective was not changed. Outcome targets were revised.

Revised Rationale
Targets for several key outcome indicators were revised in 2012 and 2014 to reflect progress progress to date and the extended
implementation period. See above.

Achievement of the objective under the first revised targets is rated Substantial.

Achievement of the objective under the second revised targets is rated Substantial.




Revised Rating
Substantial
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       UY Promoting Innovation to Enhance Compe (P095520)




5. Efficiency

 While there was no rate of return analysis conducted for the project as a whole, there were several project activities that demonstrated
 substantial efficiency in the use of project resources.



    • The estimated incremental return for post-graduate scholarship recipients (compared to those with lower levels of education) was 0.66.
    • The rate of publication for undergraduate scholarship recipients (compared to non-scholarship recipients) was 0.23 higher.
    • The benefit/cost ratio for firms participating in "Alliances" ranged from 2.6/1 to 3.0/1 (depending on variable discount rate), owing to
    increased income.
    • The TIMBO portal required a fixed cost each year over the project period (ranging from a low of US$ 1,520 in 2009 to a high of US$
    2,265 in 2011), but given the increased usage of the portal, the average cost per article downloaded steadily decreased from US$ 9.78 in
    2009 to US$ 4.82 in 2014.



 Also, almost all project outputs were delivered as planned, including some at a scaled-up level (scholarships, Sectoral Fund research
 grants), within the estimated cost, albeit with multiple project period extensions.



Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?             Point value (%)                  *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                           0
 Appraisal                                                                0
                                                                                                           Not Applicable

                                                                                                           0
 ICR Estimate                                                             0
                                                                                                           Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Outcome under original targets - Satisfactory
Relevance of the project's objectives is rated High and relevance of the project design is rated Substantial. Achievement of the objective to
increase the Borrower's capacity to generate knowledge and technology is rated Substantial due to evidence of increased generation of
knowledge and meeting of most targets. Achievement of the objective to increase the Borrower's capacity to transfer and adapt knowledge and
technology is rated Substantial due to linkages established between the public and private sectors, which would likely lead to transfer and
adaption of knowledge and technology. Efficiency is rated Substantial due to evidence of efficiency in the use of project resources for several
specific project activities.

Outcome under first revised targets - Satisfactory
Achievement of the objectives under the first revised targets remains Substantial for the objective to generate knowledge and technology
and Substantial for the objective to transfer and adapt knowledge and technology.

Outcome under second revised targets - Satisfactory
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         UY Promoting Innovation to Enhance Compe (P095520)



Achievement of the objectives under the second revised targets remains Substantial for the objective to generate knowledge and technology and
Substantial for the objective to transfer and adapt knowledge and technology.

Overall outcome rating - Satisfactory
According to OPCS/IEG harmonized guidelines, the overall outcome rating for a project that has been restructured is determined by weighting
the proportion of the Loan that disbursed before and after each restructuring. As the ratings were the same for each project period, the overall
rating is also the same at Satisfactory.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

The institutional framework for supporting STI appears to be well-established, with the national strategy in place and the primary institutional
arrangement (ANII) functioning effectively to coordinate and implement STI activities. Financial support to STI activities through the ANII, as well
as budgetary support to the ANII itself, is being increased for the near future. External donor funding will be used to continue other project
interventions such as scholarships, Technology Centers, and Alliances. The ICR also suggests (page 20) that the barrier of a non-associative
culture between the public and private sectors has been significantly overcome.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Negligible


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project design drew upon prior Bank analytic work ("Uruguay: Sources of Growth," 2005) that emphasized the need for a more integrated
     institutional approach to STI and the importance of creating linkages between researchers and industry firms. The project was well
     coordinated with other donor activities in the STI sector to prevent overlap. However, the risk assessment did not include "lack of associative
     culture" between the public and private sectors, which accounted for slow uptake of activities related to public-private partnerships;
     this challenge was subsequently addressed by offering more flexible instruments and active promotion of those instruments. There were also
     shortcomings in the results framework (some of the key project indicators did not capture project impact, i.e. "proportion of public R&D funding
     administered by the ANII," or were not practical for the country context, i.e. "number of patent applications submitted by supported research
     consortia").



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     The Bank team was responsive to changes in demand (or lack of demand) for project activities (including the higher demand for scholarships
     and Technology Centers, and access to the international scientific journal database) and revised the project design accordingly. Other aspects
     of the results framework were refined in accordance with project implementation progress, although there appears to have been a premature
     downward revision of targets, given that measures to improve implementation had not yet been attempted. Fiduciary performance was
     satisfactory.



     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Satisfactory
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       UY Promoting Innovation to Enhance Compe (P095520)




  Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The government has provided strong commitment to the project, including a supportive policy environment (national strategy for STI) and
   establishment of institutions (ANII, the National Observatory). The government also provided full counterpart funding.



   Government Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The National Research and Innovation Agency (Agencia Nacional de Investigacion e Innovacion - ANII) was the primary implementing
   agency. ANII demonstrated strong commitment to achieving the project's objectives and was staffed by a full cadre of qualified personnel.
   M&E data was regularly collected and used to inform relevant stakeholders. Fiduciary performance was satisfactory.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The M&E design had several shortcomings. There were shortcomings in the definition of key project indicators, some of which did not capture
   project impact (i.e. "proportion of public R&D funding administered by the ANII"), and some of which were not relevant or practical for the country
   context ( i.e. "number of research groups" - the national researcher database does not register groups but only individuals - and "number of
   patent applications submitted by supported research consortia" - Uruguay is not a member of the Patents Cooperation Treaty and therefore it is
   less meaningful for researchers in the country to apply for patents that would only be valid in-country). As noted in the ICR (page 9), to date
   there are no clear international standards on indicators that effectively capture progress on "innovation," and this is reflected in the choice of
   project indicators to measure increased capacity to "transfer and adapt" knowledge and technology.

   The arrangements for M&E data collection and evaluation were an integral part of the project design, namely through the creation of the ANII
   and the National Observatory. The National Observatory was expected to conduct evaluative studies, including for some project interventions
   such as the scholarship programs.




b. M&E Implementation
   The National Observatory was a well-functioning institution by project closing. The Observatory conducted (or contracted out) 28 evaluation
   studies while also tracking 35 different indicators, including on human resources, financing, innovations, and STI culture. These indicators
   provided some data to assess project progress and impact, and two specific impact evaluations are cited in the ICR (undergraduate and post-
   graduate scholarship programs).
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             UY Promoting Innovation to Enhance Compe (P095520)



c. M&E Utilization
   The ICR (page 10) reports that ANII prepared M&E reports and provided them to the government and other relevant STI institutions. STI
   studies and data are made available online, with accompanying events to raise awareness among the public on STI issues.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as an Environmental Category "C" project, and therefore no safeguard policies were triggered.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial management: The ICR (page 10) reports that there was satisfactory compliance with fiduciary requirements throughout the project
   period. No major problems are reported. Audits were submitted in a timely manner and were unqualified.

   Procurement: The ICR (page 10) reports that all procurement processes were carried out according to the agreed project documents. No major
   problems are reported, including by ex-post review missions.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None reported.




d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                               Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                               Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                       ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Negligible                        Negligible                         ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                       ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         UY Promoting Innovation to Enhance Compe (P095520)



13. Lessons

Lessons drawn from the ICR and adapted by IEG:

     • The time horizon for project impact is an important consideration in designing the results framework and selecting key indicators. The
     concepts in this project's objective were difficult to measure and the time horizon needed for the impact of innovation to materialize was
     beyond the scope of the project period. Therefore, the indicators for this project largely focused on process and evidence of increased
     capacity.
     • A well-developed "culture of innovation" and an "associative culture between public and private sectors" are important pre-requisites for
     fostering transfer and adaptation of new technology. These factors were not sufficiently considered in the project design and contributed to
     low demand for certain project activities.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

Given the challenges in the results framework (difficult-to-measure concepts in the project objectives), the analysis of the
outcomes was appropriately focused on process indicators and evidence of increased capacity . The Lessons Learned section includes some
important insights into the nature of indicators for the STI sector (longer time horizon for innovation production; the challenge of applying
international guidelines with country specificities), but concrete suggestions for indicators would have been of particular benefit to future STI
operations. Also, more discussion of the factors that led to the successful establishment of the ANII as the core institution for STI policy
implementation would have been highly informative.




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Substantial
