RETURN TO                         I n on
REPORTS DESK                       FI  COPY
WITHIN
ONE WEEK
5MUME        F        !IERATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
bNot For Public Use
Report No. PA-151a
APPRAISAL OF
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
ZAMBIA
December 13, 1972
Agriculture Division
Projects Department
East Africa Region
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1             -  Kwacha 0.714
Kwacha 1 (K1)    =  US$1.40
Ngwee (n) 100    -  Kwacha 1
Kwacha 1 million -  US$1,400,560
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
0.405 hectare (ha)    = 1 acre
1,609 meters (m)       - 1 mile
0.454 kilogram (kg)   - 1 pound (lb)
1 metric ton           = 2,204.6 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC       =    Agricultural Finance Company
AOT       =    Associated Overseas Territory
CDC       -    Commonwealth Development Corporation
NAMB      =    Nattonal Agricultural Marketing Board
SNDP           Second National Development Plan
TBZ       -    Tobacco Board of Zambia
FISCAL YEAR
Government and TBZ - January 1 - December 31
CROP YEAR
October - September



ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............................  i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ...........................................    1
II.   BACKGROUND         ............................................    1
A.   General       ................................           1
B.   Tobacco Sector .....................                     2
C.   Maize Sector ......................                      3
D.   Tobacco and Maize Development Policy .............       3
III.   THE PROJECT AREAS ......................                      4
A.   Location and Transportation ...............              4
B.   Climate, Soils, Water Supplies and Vegetation ....       4
C.   Population and Land Tenure ...............               5
D.   Present Farmer Incomes, Farm Size, and Land Use         5
E.   Smallholder Production of Flue-cured Tobacco and
Maize     ..........................................   6
IV.   THE PROJECT       ................................            6
A.   General Description ..............................       6
B.   Detailed Features ................................       7
C.   Cost Estimates ......      .............................  11
D .  Financing ... ...................................   12
E.   Procurement .......           ..        .......    12
F.   Disbursement .......          ..        .......    13
G.   Accounts and Audit ...........................   13
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................   14
A.   Project Administration ...........................   14
B.   Field Development ...............................   14
C.   Credit    ................ ................   15
D.   Research .................................   15
E.   Training .................................   15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in February/
March, 1972 composed of Messrs. C. P. R. Nottidge, D. Lomnax, J. H. Cleave
(Bank) and A. H. Pursell (Consultant). Mr. R. C. Taylor (Bank) contributed
materially concerning the marketing aspects of Zambian tobacco. Mrs. Comer
(Bank) assisted with the risk analysis.



-2-
Page No.
F.  Recruitment of Growers ......    .....................  15
G.  Marketing .... o  ...................................  16
H.   Project Evaluation ........   .......................  16
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, AND FINANCIAL RESULTS ..........  17
A.  Yields and Production ......     ......................  17
B.  Markets and Prices ......     .........................  18
C.  Financial Results .......     .........................  19
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................  21
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .........   ..............................  22
ANNEXES
1.  Estimated Production and Value of Major Crops
2.  Area Under Tobacco, Yields and Production
3.  Area Under Tobacco, Production, Price and Value
4.  Tobacco Board of Zambia
5.  Maize, Marketed Supply, Price, Area and Yield
6.  The Development of Smallholder Tobacco Growing
7.  Number of Project Participants, Their Phasing and Production
8.  Farm Budget
9.  Project Costs
10.  Seasonal and Medium-Term Credit On-lending Rates
11.  Purchase of Tractors, Vehicles, and Equipment
12.  Disbursement Schedule
13.  Staff Requirements
14.  Analysis of Recent Trends and Outlook for Zambian Flue-Cured
Tobacco
15.  Sensitivity Analysis
16.  Tobacco Board of Zambia - Cash Flow
17.  Government of Zambia - Cash Flow
18.  Economic Rate of Return
19.  Risk Analysis
CHARTS
1.  Tobacco Board of Zambia
2.  Project Organization
MAP



ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The economy of Zambia is dominated by the copper industry and
average incomes in the modern sector are several times those of rural areas.
To diversify the economy and raise rural incomes, and also to establish
adequate reserves of staple food, Government has decided to increase
investment in agricultural production, particularly by snmallholders outside
those areas adjacent to the railway line. The proposed project is designed
to further develop the Zambian tobacco and maize industries and assist
subsistence farmers to enter commercial agriculture. Tobacco, a high value
crop with export markets and suited to smallholder production, would help
meet the diversification and income distribution objectives, while maize
would add to the supply of staple food. The project production would be a
small proportion of the total world market for tobacco and the local market
for maize. Market prospects for both are satisfactory.
ii.       The Bank has made three other agricultural loans to Zambia, for
forestry development, for livestock, and for commercial production of flue-
cured tobacco. In the forestry project, wood quality problems have been
resolved, but management shortcomings remain. The livestock project has been
faced with high costs of development, an unfavorable local price for beef,
poor management and delays in ranch development, and has been reappraised.
The tobacco project, which is progressing satisfactorily, included provision
for a specialist in "one acre" tobacco development to assist Government
in establishing smallholder tobacco growing pilot schemes. The experience
gained from these schemes has led to the present project.
iii.      Under the project, about 900 existing and 5,400 new producers would
grow some 5,000 ha of Virginia flue-cured tobacco and 6,300 ha of hybrid
maize over the first five-year period of a nine-year program, which is ultimate-
ly designed to assist 8,800 farmers. In some cases, development would come
from extension advice given to farmers already holding land in the project areas,
and in other cases farmers would be settled on new holdings. No problems in
recruiting growers are anticipated. The project would be implemented by the
Production Department of the Tobacco Board of Zambia (TBZ) acting as develop-
ment agents of Government. The project comprises the construction of crop
extraction roads, soil conservation measures, tree and tobacco nurseries,
domestic water supplies, baling centers, and a limited number of schools
and dispensaries, and an enlargement of Government's extension and supporting
services to farmers. It also makes provision for seasonal credit for farming
inputs and medium-term loans for construction of grading sheds and curing
barns. At full production, 8.8 million kg of tobacco, valued at US$11.2 million,
and 39,400 m tons of maize, valued at US$2.1 million, would be produced
annually.



- ii -
iv.       A loan of US$11.5 million (K 7.5 million) is proposed which would
cover the foreign exchange component of the project (US$7.0 million) and 54%
of local currency expenditure over the five-year period 1973/74-1977/78.
This is 75% of the total project cost of K 10.9 million (US$15.25 million).
Imported goods, mostly vehicles, construction equipment and tobacco
requisites, to the value of US$3.0 million would be procured by international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Funds to meet the
credit requirements of farmers would be on-lent to TBZ as the executing
agency at 7-1/4% per annum and then on to farmers at 12% per annum for
seasonal and 9-1/2% for medium-term credit.
v.        The project proposes to continue the present levy on project
participants of 22 n/kg of tobacco to cover marketing, development and
extension costs directly related to tobacco production. Government would
take action to discontinue the present tobacco price subsidy, which has been
applied to cover increased statutory wage rates, as family farmers, who do
not employ labor, produce tobacco economically at unsubsidized rates.
vi.       The economic rate of return on the whole program, based on
long-term estimates of tobacco and maize prices, would be 20% at full develop-
ment and would remain at a satisfactory 14%, even if tobacco prices were
to fall 20% below the estimates. If development stopped at the end of the
five-year investment period, the rate of return would be 18%. Under the worst
market conditions which could be reasonably regarded as a possibility, (with
Rhodesia re-entering world markets as an Associated Overseas Territory of
the European Economic Community,) the project would still return about 10%
to the Zambian economy. A project risk analysis shows that there is only
2% probability of the economic yield being less than 10%. Net annual
foreign exchange earnings, at full development, would be about US$8.5
million. The program, of which the project is part, would provide full-time
employment for about 30,000 adults, at present engaged mainly in subsistence
farming, and give an average family cash income at full development of K 416
(US$582).
vii.      Appropriate assurances have been received at negotiations and the
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$11.5 million. The Government of
Zambia would be the borrower.



ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Zambia's agricultural sector has been assisted so far by three
Bank loans: US$5.3 million (562-ZA) in 1968 for forestry development, US$2.5
million (627-ZA) in 1969 for livestock development, and US$5.5 million (685-
ZA) in 1970 for flue-cured tobacco development by commercial growers. Ini-
tially, the quality of wood from the tree species planted gave cause for
concern in the forestry project, but this was resolved; management issues,
however, still present difficulties, and Government has been slow to makc
appropriate changes. A reappraisal of the livestock project was made neces-
sary by high costs of development, changes in marketing policy, an unfavor-
able cost price ratio for beef, poor management, and delays in ranch develop-
ment. Recommendations for a reduced development program have been ptut to
Covernment and its reaction is awaited.
1.02      Progress under Loan 685-ZA (Commercial Crops Development Project)
has been satisfactory although the program is behind schedule because of
difficulties in acquiring land. Increased wage rates and indifferent labor
management by Assisted Tenants 1/ in their first year of farming gave cause
for concern at first as to the financial viability of individual farmers,
despite a tobacco subsidy, but that situation has been corrected.
1.03      Although Loan 685-ZA was mainly aimed at financing medium-scale
tobacco growers, it also financed a specialist in "one acre" tobacco devel-
opment to assist in planning and implementing pilot smallholder schemes and
to organize the training of staff. On the basis of the experience gained
with the smallholder schemes, and realizing that family farms are more
resilient than commercial undertakings in facing rising production costs and
the possibility of falling prices, Government, therefore, submitted proposals
in 1971 for the expansion of tobacco growing by small farmers. The project
was prepared by Government, with assistance from the Bank's Permanent Mission
in East Africa.
1.04      This appraisal report is based upon the findings of a mission
to Zambia in February/March 1972 composed of Messrs. C. P. R. Nottidge,
J. H. Cleave, and D. Lomax (Bank) and A. H. Pursell (Consultant).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Zambia is a landlocked country of 753,000 sq km with a population
of about 4.25 million (1971), increasing at 2.6% annually. Half of this
population is concentrated on the copper belt and the line-of-rail serving
17   Medium scale tobacco and maize farmers who have undergone training at
a Tobacco Training College and established on farms developed under
the project.



- 2 -
it. The economy is dominated by the copper industry which contributes about
one-third of GDP and Government revenue and 95% of export earnings. Agri-
culture contributes about 15% of GDP and only 1% of exports, of which tobacco
accounts for half. Marketed production and value of principal crops are
shown in Annex 1. GNP per capita in 1971 was estimated at US$350, but there
is a distinct division between the modern economic sector, based on mining,
with a per capita GNP of US$1,500, and the traditional rural sector, outside
the line-of-rail, consisting of some 400,000 to 500,000 families who are
mainly engaged in small-scale agriculture, with a GNP of under US$60 per
head. About 80% of family production is self-consumed and annual cash sales
are about US$35 per family. Most of the marketed agricultural production is
still grown in the modern sector on the line-of-rail by commercial farmers,
who produce 95% of the tobacco and 60% of the maize, livestock and fresh
milk sold in Zambia. The number of commercial farmers registered has declined
from 1,200 at Independence to 750 (only 150 are Zambian citizens) in 1971.
This decline has had a significant effect on production of maize, Virginia
tobacco, beef and dairying. Government is consequently interested in devel-
oping new producers of these crops. There is serious unemployment in the
modern sector and alternative employment opportunities for farmers in the
rural sector are strictly limited.
B. Tobacco Sector
2.02      Flue-cured tobacco production started shortly before World War I,
but it is only in the last 20 years that significant quantities of acceptable
quality have been produced. In the 1960's annual production was about 6.4
million kg although there was a peak production in 1964 of over 11 million
kg. Countrywide average plantings have declined from about 6,700 ha in the
early 1960's to 5,700 ha more recently, and average production has been about
5.0 million kg over the past four years. Average yields have remained about
900 kg/ha, in spite of the droughts in 1968 and 1969 (Annex 2).
2.03      The decline in the area of tobacco planted resulted from the
departure of expatriate commercial growers, the enactment in 1967 of a
Government decree greatly increasing farm wage rates and fringe benefits,
an attractive maize price, and general labor unrest in the country. Helped
by a subsidy introduced for the 1969/70 crop, tobacco planting has now
stabilized. The subsidy formula excludes all tobacco valued at 5n/lb
(lln/kg) or less from consideration and pays on all other tobacco,
regardless of grade, the difference between a support price 1/ and the
average auction price. In 1969/70 the subsidy averaged 17.6n/kg (US$0.24/kg)
on all tobacco, and in 1970/71 under 15n/kg (US$0.21/kg) as part of a support
price of 83.6n/kg. The cost to Government was over K 840,000 in each year.
2.04      The average gross realization price to growers over the last 12
years, without subsidy, has varied between 51 n/kg (US$0.73/kg) and 97 n/kg
(US$1.39/kg): the overall average being 66 n/kg (US$0.94/kg) (Annex 3). There
has been no discernable trend in average export prices for Zambian tobacco
1/   The initial support price was 38 n/lb (83.6 n/kg) and this was raised
for the 1972 crop to 41 n/lb (90 nlkg) to compensate for increased
minimum statutory wages and other benefits for labor.



- 3 -
over the past decade. A tobacco levy of 0.03 n/lb is exacted on all tobacco
sold, and money collected for flue-cured is passed on to the Virginia Tobacco
Growers Association of Zambia, who use it primarily for research.
2.05      The Tobacco Board of Zambia (TBZ), a statutory body was formed in
1968 under the Tobacco Act. It was originally concerned only with the
operation of an auction floor and a tobacco processing, redrying and packing
plant, but, following amendments to the Act in 1970, it added a Tobacco
Production Department. This Department assumed the responsibility for
carrying out extension, training and production programs formerly directed
by the Ministry of Rural Development. TBZ obtains income from operating
the auction floor and packing plant and from funds granted by Government
for its tobacco production and training schemes (Annex 4 and Chart I).
The auction floor has a sale capacity of 200,000 kg daily and the packing
plant an annual capacity of 18 million kg.
2.06      Local annual consumption of Zambian tobacco is about 1.1 million
kg cured leaf - about 20% of production - and about 60% of the flue-cured
production is exported to the United Kingdom. The future of the market
depends particularly on the world position of Rhodesia and the links which
Zambia establishes with the European Common Market (para 6.07).
C. Maize Sector
2.07      Maize, the major staple food of Zambia, is produced both as a
subsistence crop with surpluses for sale on smallholdings, and as a cash crop
on commercial farms. Most of the crop does not move through commercial
channels, but, of the part that does, some two-thirds comnes from commercial
farms (Annex 5).
2.08      Production is greatly influenced by both weather conditions and
prices. Changes in these, aggravated by sales arising from chance surpluses
to subsistence needs, have caused years of shortage in marketed supply
followed by considerable surpluses. Because of a combination of a high price
(K 4..0/bag of 90 kg), a 30% subsidy on fertilizers, and extremely good
growing conditions, the 1972 crop is expected to set a new record. All sales
of maize are made to the National Agricultural Marketing Board (NAMB) formed
in 1969. The Board has to accept all maize offered at prices declared by
government before planting and it sells to millers at prices similarly
prescribed. The retail price of maize meal and flour is also controlled.
The Board's selling price for maize is generally below the cost of purchase,
handling, and storage, and NAMB is thus subsidized by Government as part of
its policy of keeping down consumer cost.
D. Tobacco and Maize Development Policy
2.09      In an attempt to reduce the extreme dependence of the economy on
the mining sector, Government, under its Second National Development Plan,
1972-1976, (SNDP), emphasizes first an expansion of agricultural production
to improve income and increase exports; and second, a transformation of



- 4 -
traditional farming into market-oriented commercialized farming to help solve
employment and income distribution problems. Constraints to increasing in-
vestment in the rural sector are a lack of staff for planning and executing,
Zambia's small internal market, and a landlocked position which restricts
production for export to only those items having a high value:weight ratio.
2.10      Flue-cured Virginia tobacco is given priority among agricultural
exports.  The organisation and facilities for its development already exist,
it is high value, and it is especially suited to smallholder production.
Current commercial production must be maintained until the small farmers can
develop, thus a parallel policy, which gives the commercial farmers incentive
to stay in tobacco, is being contemplated by Government.
2.11      Faced with fluctuating supply and high transport costs that limit
opportunities for maize export and make imports extremely costly, Government
intends to secure and maintain self-sufficiency by accumulating a national
reserve of at least 180,000 m tons. Market requirements for human consumption
and stockfeed are projected at 360,000 m tons in 1972, to exceed 550,000 m tons
in 1976 and reach about 720,000 m tons by 1980. Consumption is expected to
continue to increase by about 7.5% per annum slowing to 6% after 1975.
III. TIIE PROJECT AREAS
A. Location and Transportation
3.01      The Project is principally located in the tobacco-growing areas
of the Southern and Eastern Provinces, with one small scheme in the Western
Province (for location, see Map).
3.02      All Project areas are linked to Lusaka, where the tobacco processing
and auctioning facilities are situated, by either rail or all-weather roads.
Each area is also served by an adequate local road network. Zambia Railways
operates the rail services and two Government-owned road transport organiza-
tions provide road haulage. Outlets to the sea are by the Great North
Road to Dar-es-Salaam in Tanzania and by the Great East Road via Malawi to
Beira in Mozambique. The distance from Lusaka to each port is approximately
1,600 km.
B. Climate, Soils, Water Supplies, and Vegetation
3.03      Climatic conditions are similar throughout the project areas.
Evenly distributed rainfall in the November to March growing season ranges
from a mean of 710 mm in the tobacco-growing areas of the Southern Province
to 1,015 mm in the Eastern, Central and Western Provinces. From March to
October, there is normally no effective rain. Temperatures are suitable for
tobacco growing and frosts do not occur during the cropping period though
all project areas are subject to hail, and hail insurance is taken out by
all tobacco growers through the Zambia State Insurance Corporation Ltd.



3.04      Soils throughout the project areas are well drained and well suited
to flue-cured tobacco and maize production.
3.05      Project areas lie at altitudes suitable for tobacco and maize
production between 1,065 m and 1,220 m above sea level. Domestic water
supplies are adequate and obtainable from rivers, dams, boreholes, or wells.
3.06      All project areas consist of open woodland characterized by
Brachystegia and Julbernadia tree species, which provide ideal fuel for
tobacco curing.
C. Population and Land Tenure
3.07      The areas selected for project activity lie within or adjacent to
areas of relatively high population density by Zambian standards. Densities
range from 37 families per km2 in the Southern Province and the Chipata
district of the Eastern Region to 10 families per km2 in the Western Province
and the Lundazi district of the Eastern Region. The average family consists
of 8.0 persons in the Southern Region, 8.5 in the Eastern Province and 6.0
in the Western Region. It is estimated that there are between 2.5 and 3.5
adult equivalents per family available for full-time work on farms.
3.08      Most of the Project area is Reserve or Trust Land, held by the
President. This title, however, is qualified by the customary rights of
Zambians, as tribes or portions of tribes, to occupy and use the land.
Individual Zambians thus become entitled to the sole and exclusive right
of occupancy in accordance with customary law. The remainder, formerly
expatriate-owned farms that were acquired by Government for the development
of smallholder tobacco growing, is State Land, the title to which is also
held by the President. Such land can be and is leased to individuals for
periods of up to 100 years.
D. Present Farmer Incomes, Farm Size, and Land Use
3.09      In project areas where flue-cured tobacco has not been introduced
farmer cash income has been derived solely from the sale of small quantities
of maize, groundnuts, sorghum, and millet, surplus to subsistence requirements.
A recent survey in the Eastern Province showed that these sales amount to
about K 25 (US$35) annually per family. Other project areas have not been
surveyed but it is estimated that incomes are likely to be of the same
magnitude.
3.10      No accurate assessment has been made of farm size in project areas,
but the average size holding has been estimated to be 12 ha in the Southern
Province and the Chipata district of the Eastern Province and 15 ha in other
areas.
3.11      In the past, the traditional "Chitimeni" system of agriculture has
been practiced whereby trees are felled, brushwood burned, and subsistence
crops established and grown among the stumps until the soil becomes impoverished.



- 6 -
Land is then allowed to revert to fallow for some years before it is cropped
again. During recent years, however, the increasing use of fertilizers has
tended to replace shifting cultivation. Cattle are common throughout project
areas, being kept rather for social than economic reasons. Some progressive
farmers use oxen for cultivation, and the practice is on the increase.
E. Smallholder Production of Flue-Cured Tobacco and Maize
3.12      Smallholder flue-cured tobacco production started in 1968/69 at
930 kg, increased to 28,900 kg (0.6% of national crop) in 1969/70, and reached
100,950 kg (1.7% of national crop) in 1970/71 (Annex 6). Estimated production
for the 1971/72 crop is 240,000 kg (5% of total crop). Average prices obtained
were 67.8 n/kg and 70.0 n/kg in 1969/70 and 1970/71, respectively (country
averages being 62.5 n/kg and 68.9 n/kg in each of those years). Farmers
receive inputs through TBZ, which grows and supplies tobacco seedlings at
central nurseries. Details of tobacco production methods are given in Annex
6. TBZ has constructed centers at which tobacco is bulked and baled prior to
transportation to the auction floors where it is stored until sale. At
present farmers pay to TBZ a charge of 22 n/kg of tobacco sold which
covers baling expenses (2.2 n/kg), transport (2.6 n/kg), auction floor charges
(1.7 n/kg), tobacco levy (0.7 n/kg), hail insurance (3.4 n/kg), field to
floor insurance (1.1 n/kg), and development and management costs (10.3 n/kg).
3.13      Extension service to farmers is provided by TBZ which recruits and
trains staff at either the Popota Tobacco College or the Mukonchi Training
Unit. Short- and medium-term credit to farmers for the purchase of seasonal
inputs and construction of curing barns and grading sheds is provided
through a block allocation of money from the Agricultural Finance Company
(AFC). Loans are administered by TBZ and recovered by stop orders on the
sale of tobacco.  The repayment of credit has been satIsfactory, 100% of
advances being collected in the first-three years of operating and 80%
collected by due date in 1970/71, whcn bad weather produced low yields of
tobacec. TBZ also runs a tractor hire service to assist farmers with basic
cultivation in the early years of establishment.
3.14      Traditionally farmers have planted low-yielding varieties of
maize, but since they have begun to use the hybrid varieties and fertilizer,
made available through seasonal credit, yields of 50 bags of 90 kg/ha are now
common.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The project forms part of the Government of Zambia's ongoing
smallholder flue-cured tobacco development program, which would be completed
in 1980/81. It covers the five year period 1973/74 to 1977/78 in the Eastern
Southern and Western Provinces (for location see Map). In the project period:



-    about 5,400 new growers would be settled and scme 900
existing maize and tobacco growers serviced. The growers
would be in 21 sections, which would each average about
400 growers at the close of the nine-year development phase,
and three pilot sections of 120 growers each. In addition to
subsistence crops, the farmer would cultivate 0.5 ha of tobacco
and 1.0 ha maize in his first year rising, over five years, to
1.0 ha of tobacco and 1.0 ha of maize;
-    crop extraction roads would be constructed, basic soil con-
servation measures undertaken, and tree and tobacco nurseries,
domestic water supplies, tobacco baling centers, and a limited
number of primary schools and dispensaries provrided;
-    credit would be provided through the establishment of a
revolving credit fund. Short-term credit would be used to
purchase seasonal inputs. The medium-term credit would be
used by farmers to construct curing barns, and grading
sheds and to purchase tools. Credit would also be provided
for the purchase of tobacco baling requisites and;
-    project management, including housing, vehicleis, equipment,
and a tractor hire service would be establisheld within TBZ,
which would plan and execute the project and provide extension
and credit services to farmers.
4.02      The Ministry of Rural Development would have overall responsibility
for the project but implementation would be carried out by the Tobacco Pro-
duction Department of TBZ, which would also be responsible for marketing the
tobacco.  Maize would be sold to NAMB.
B. Detailed Features
Phasing
4.03      Development of sections, recruitment of growers, and planting of
tobacco and maize would be phased approximately as follows:
(Cumulative totals)
1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78
Total sections
established                       9 /1       11         16         21         21
Total pilot sections
established                       -           3          3          3          3
Total farmers                   1,650 /2   2,800       4,050      5,200      6,300
Total tobacco area (ha)         1,050       1,850      2,800      3,900      5,000
Total maize area (ha)           1,650       2,800      4,050      5,200      6,300
/1   All existing.
/2   900 existing.



4.04      This phasing takes into account the availability of extension staff
and the capacity of project planning staff (Annex 7).
4.05      Scheme and section development is expected to be divided mainly
between the Southern and Eastern Provinces, where the greatest number of
smallholder tobacco growers are already located. Initially, five sections
would be established in the Southern Province, eight in the Eastern Province
and one in the Western Province. Because it is impossible to predict the
areas in which tobacco growing would expand most rapidly, provision would
also be made within project financing for seven unallocated sections, which,
with the agreement of the Bank, would be allocated to any of the three scheme
areas or as extensions to proposed pilot sections. Assurances that Bank
approval would be sought for proposed allocations were obtained at
negotiations. Furthermore, to ensure rational development, assurances
were also obtained that the location and program for scheme and section
development for each calendar year would be agreed with the Bank prior to
January 1.
4.06      Three pilot sections would be developed in the second year of
the project, each building up to 120 growers over a three year period. These
pilot sections would provide information for possible future expansion
of smallholder tobacco production, and would be located in areas where
tobacco growing has not been tried,their exact location would be dictated
by population densities, soil suitability and farmer interest. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that, prior to development, Bank agreement
be obtained as to the location of the pilot sections.
Scheme and Section Planning and Development
4.07      Scheme headquarters would be established in the Eastern Province at
Lundazi and Zemba (with a small sub-headquarters at Sinde/Vubwe because of
distance) and in the Southern Province at Gamela. Each scheme would build up
to at least five sections, each section expanding at the following rate:
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7
Total number of
farmers         20       70       120       200      300       350       400
4.08      Section and pilot scheme planning would be carried out by staff
located at scheme headquarters.  All project areas have been aerially photo-
graphed and some planning is already complete.
4.09      A section would cover a maximum of approximately 26,000 ha gross,
which would allow growers to be within 8 km of a baling center and a
centrally operated nursery. Two types of development would be involved. On
State Land (para 3.08) development would be of a settlement nature and holdings
would include, for the typical family, a minimum of 11.5 ha of arable land
with additional woodland for fuel for tobacco curing. On Reserve or Trust
Land, development would be carried out by extension services to existing
farmers, selected for participation only if they have sufficient land to
maintain a satisfactory farming rotation and enough natural timber for at
least four years of tobacco curing. Assurances to this effect were obtained
at negotiations. Wherever possible, sections would be adjacent to one another.



- 9 -
4.10      With present techniques of curing it is estimated that 1 ha of
natural woodland is required every year to cure the annual leaf production
from 1 ha of tobacco. The amount of natural woodland on project areas would
supply sufficient fuel for the next five to 10 years without regeneration or
replanting. Thereafter alternative fuels would be required. In most of the
Eastern Province there is ample evidence that natural woodland can be replaced
by planting Eucalyptus species, and provision would be made for TBZ to establish
tree nurseries to supply seedlings. Farmers would be encouraged to plant up
to 2-1/2 ha of trees over a period of five years, which would provide enough
fuel to cure 1 ha of tobacco annually from the sixth year onwards. In the
Southern Province and part of the Eastern Province, however, there was no
evidence of suitable replacement tree species at the time of appraisal, but
some of these areas lie adjacent to coal fields. Information was subse-
quently obtained as to the feasibility of coal for tobacco curing and on
alternate tree species that could be satisfactorily established. Coal proved
to be a satisfactory and economic substitute in Southern Region whereas in
Eastern Province, no satisfactory alternate tree species could be recommended,
and the sections involved will be developed elsewhere.
Infrastructure
4.11      TBZ would provide each section with a water supply sufficient to
meet domestic and seedbed requirements, a minimum of basic soil conservation
measures and crop extraction roads. On average, about 130 km of crop
extraction roads would be constructed on each section, linking up with
existing road networks. A small road and terrace construction unit would
be located in the Eastern Province, but in other areas, adjacent to the
line-of-rail, local contractors or Government hire service would meet
construction needs. The project would provide necessary equipment for
drilling boreholes and shallow wells to augment machinery owned by the
drilling section already established within TBZ. Maintenance of roads and
water supplies would, during the project period, be undertaken by TBZ and
assurances were obtained that satisfactory arrangements would be made
for the maintenance of these facilities after the development period.
4.12      TBZ would construct and maintain houses and offices for its staff
both at scheme and section level, and provide and equip each section with a
small baling center operated by the sectional staff. The baling center would
be expanded in the fourth year to accommodate additional tobacco
production. Vehicles, both personnel and load carrying, would be provided.
4.13      Each farmer being settled would construct two curing barns
and a grading shed in the first year. TBZ would assist in the construction
by providing a medium-term loan, repayable over five years. This would be
used to purchase roofing poles, corrugated iron sheeting, flue pipes, door
frames and doors, and barn thermometers. The credit would also be used to
pay a TBZ labor force which would be available to assist with construction.
The total credit requirement of the construction items would amount to K 166
(US$231) per farmer (Annex 8). Credit would not be needed for house construc-
tion. Additional barns would be erected and financed by the farmer in the
third and fifth years of tobacco growing and extensions would be made to his
grading shed in the fourth year. Established farmers in areas covered by
enhanced extension services would be expected to construct curing barns and



- 10 -
a grading shed prior to the planting of the first tobacco crop and would
receive credit similar to that provided to settlement farmers.  Growers
entering settlement schemes are given 14-year leases to the land, subject to
renewal.
4.14      TBZ would also construct a limited numbers of primary schools and
dispensaries, generally to be located in settlement areas only and suf-
ficient to provide the minimum requirements. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that Government would provide the necessary staff and
medicines and would continue to be responsible for the maintenance and
running of these services.
Agricultural Services
4.15      Project participants would obtain seasonal production credit estimated
to average K 143 in the first year, K 136 in the second, K 155 in the third,
K 145 in the fourth, and K 155 in the fifth year of farming and thereafter
(Annex 8). This would be distributed mostly in kind -- basic land cultivation
by the tractor hire service (para 4.16) in the first three years only, seedlings,
fertilizer, insecticides, polythene sheeting and hail insurance for tobacco
and seed and fertilizer for maize. Project costs include provision only for
incremental supplies of seasonal inputs and baling requisites. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that no farmer would receive credit
from project funds to grow more tobacco and maize than he could care for with
available family labor. Section managers would satisfy themselves that the
farmer had the capability and facilities to handle the crop for which credit
was requested. It is unlikely that a farmer would attempt to increase his
acreage from his own resources, but any that does would be carefully watched
by section staff to ensure he is not overreaching himself.
4.16      TBZ has in the past assisted tobacco farmers with basic tillage
operations through a tractor hire service. Project farmers will continue to
receive this assistance only for the first three years following their estab-
lishment, after which cultivation would likely be done with oxen, which are
readily available in project areas. Project costs provide for a mechanical
supervisor at scheme level and for a mechanic at section level capable of
carrying out routine maintenance and minor repairs. The mechanical supervisor
would assist with major repairs.
4.17      Experience in Zambia and elsewhere indicates that it takes at
least five years of concentrated extension and administrative effort to
ensure the success of settlement schemes and for farmers to become fully
familiar with the growing and handling of a non-traditional crop such
as tobacco.  The costs of administration and extension have therefore been
considered as investment costs for the five-year development period.
Ecology
4.18      Although flue-cured tobacco production would, in the course of
time, remove the greater part of the indigenous tree cover, the project
would establish exotic tree species as replacements, besides constructing
basic soil conservation works to prevent erosion. All planning and layout
of settlement areas would be on a conservation basis, and no persistent
insecticides or weedicides would be used by project farmers.



- 11 -
C. Cost Estimates
4.19      Project cost estimates and the foreign exchange element are
summarized in the following table. Details are in Annex 9.
Foreign
Local   Foreign            Local     Foreign            Exchange
Currency Exchange  Total Currency  Exchange  Total   Component
…------ (K 000)   …------ --------…(US$'000)…--------   ----%
A.   Credit
Medium-term
credit          272      408       680      381         571     952      60
Incremental
seasonal
credit          166      754       920      232       1,056   1,288      82
Incremental
purchases
of baling
requisites       35        66      101       50          92     142      65
B.   Project
Investments
Vehicles and
tractors        124      697       821      173         977   1,150      85
Road Construc-
tion, office,
irrigation and
baling shed
equipment       110       330      440      155         462     617      75
Housing and
buildings       527       284      811      738         398   1,136      35
Dispensaries
and schools      93        50      143      131          70     201      35
Water, roads,
soil conserva-
tion, and tree
nursery develop-
ment            499       597    1,096      698         836   1,534      55
C.   Project Management
Operational
costs         3,116      991    4,107   4,367         1,388   5,753      24
D.   Contingency
Allowances
Physical         143       218      361      201         305      506     59
Price            788       618    1,406   1,103          865   1,968      44
E.   Project Cost  5,873    5,013   10 886   8,227          7 020  15,247      46
4.LO      Full program development would not be completed until 1981
but capital costs during the development period to 1977 represent over
90% of the total. Cost estimates are based on the experience gained
over the past three years in the development of smallholder tobacco growing
and have been corrected for recent price developments in Zambia. The
estimates include overall price contingencies of 5% annually and an overall



- 12 -
physical contingency of 10% on all buildings, equipment, water development
and road construction.
D. Financing
4.21      The proposed Bank loan of US$11.5 million (K 7.5 million) would
finance about 75% of project costs, which would represent the estimated
foreign exchange component and 54% of local currency expenditure. The Bank
loan would be for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of five years,
which is justified by the expected life of the project. It is possible that
the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) would further assist the
Government in financing local expenditure.
4.22      The borrower would be the Government of Zambia, which would make
funds to cover development costs available to TBZ as a direct budget subven-
tion in the form of an annual lump sum allocation. The amount of the alloca-
tion would be based on agreed estimates prepared following the joint annual
review of the project development program by Government, TBZ and the Bank
(para 4.05). Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
Assurances were also obtained that funds, oither than for credit, would be
passed to TBZ by Government in the form of grants.
4.23      Funds for credit would be on-lent to TBZ.  These would reach a
maximum of K2.1 million in year 7. After this date, surpluses resulting
from the repayment of medium-term credit would be returned to Government, and
the funds would be repaid in full by year 14. Funds for seasonal credit would
revolve annually. The ruling rate of interest on seasonal and medium-term
loans through AFC is 8%, while commercial banks charge 12% per annum on
seasonal loans to customers in a financial position similar to that of
project participants. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that an
appropriate agreement would be concluded between Government and TBZ under
which credit funds would be on-lent by Government to TBZ at 7-1/4% per
annum. Further assurances were obtained that TBZ would provide medium-
term credit to project participants at 9-1/2% per annum and seasonal credit
at 12% per annum. These rates would give a margin to cover expenses.
Details of on-lending rates are given in Annex 10.
E. Procurement
4.24      TBZ's procurement of tractors, vehicles, road construction equip-
ment, boring rigs and irrigation equipment (value US$1.9 million) would be
by international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines
(Annex 11). Of the total value of medium-term and seasonal credit and
incremental costs of operating baling sheds (US$2.5 million), US$1.0
million (comprising fertilizer, corrugated iron roofing, and polythene
sheeting) would be allocated for purchases by international competitive
bidding, and the rest (materials for seedling production, fuels and spares
for the tractor hire service;, transport, and insurance) under local tender
arrangements. Assurances were obtained that TBZ would bulk orders for
annual requirements of vehicles, tractors, equipment, fertilizer, and roofing



- 13 -
materials, wherever possible, and that those estimated to cost more than
US$30,000 would be put to international tender. Provision would be made for
local preference for a national fertilizer company. This; preference would be
15,' or the appropriate customs duty, whichever is lower. International
tendering would not be appropriate for small purchases such as office equip-
ment and baling presses (total value US$0.1 million) and they would be
obtained off the shelf locally.  Buildings (value US$1.6 million) would be
constructed by TBZ force account since sites are remote and widely dispersed
and suitable contractors would not be available. Similarly, the construction
of roads, soil conservation works, and water supplies and the establishment
of tree nurseries (value US$1.7 million) would be undertaken by TBZ. Total
procurement by international competitive bidding would anmount to US$2.9 million.
4.25      If the project is operating satisfactorily and should surplus
loan funds remain at the closing date, they should be used for the continuing
development of the program. This action is recommended as total development
would not be completed during the disbursement period.
F. Disbursement
4.26      The Bank loan would be disbursed against:
-    100% of foreign costs or 73% of total costs of farm machinery,
vehicles, and specialized equipment, imported directly for the
project (about US$1.6 million);
-    73% of the seasonal and medium-term incremental credit require-
ments (about US$1.9 million);
-    73% of the costs of housing, buildings, water development, road
construction, soil conservation and schools and dispensaries
and administration (about US$6.2 million);
-    an unallocated amount of US$1.8 million representing contingencies
on the above categories and transferable to them as required.
Disbursements would be made against import documents and appropriate records
of expenditure certified by the TBZ Project Manager and the Chief Accountant,
who would also prepare the claims. Estimated disbursements of the loan over
the five-year development period are shown in Annex 12.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.27      TBZ would keep separate accounts for the project and for individual
farmers and maintain memorandum accounts under the various disbursement
categories. TBZ at present employ a firm of independent auditors. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that accounts would
continue to be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and
that such audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank no later than six
months after the closing of TBZ's financial year.



- 14 -
V.  ORGANIZATION AND iANAGEMENT
5.01      TBZ would carry out the project for the Government and would have
full operational and supervisory powers, including the selection of parti-
cipants. TBZ has demonstrated its ability to execute tobacco development
schemes. Successful management of the proposed project and the attainment
of expected yields would be dependent on continuation of competent manage-
ment (para 5.03).
A. Project Administration
5.02      The project would provide for administration and accounting support
at all levels of implementation. At project headquarters, a Chief Accountant,
assisted by two accountants, an internal auditor, and supporting clerical
staff, would be responsible for overall financial control, project accounting,
and administration of the revolving credit fund. A Building Supervisor would
oversee the building program. General clerical and cartographical support
would also be supplied. Clerical and accounting staff would be provided at
province and scheme level and clerical assistance only at section level.
Staff requirements are shown in Annex 13.
5.03      The Tobacco Production Department of TBZ would have the principal
responsibility for project implementation. The Production Manager is
assisted by a Deputy, a Manager (Tenant Farming Schemes) and a Manager
(Family Farming Schemes), who would become Project Manager with responsibility
for execution of field development. Coordination with the Ministry of Rural
Development would be through the Tobacco Board and at provincial and district
levels through Development Committees. For Project organization see Chart 2.
Appointments to the posts of Manager of Family Farming Schemes, and Pro-
vincial Managers, would be made prior to effectiveness. Subsequent appoint-
ments to fill vacancies arising in these posts would be made by TBZ who would
inform the Bank in sufficient time to enable comment on their suitability.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
B. Field Development
5.04      The Production Department would continue to be organized on a
provincial basis, with separate managers responsible for all activities in
the Central, Southern, and Eastern Provinces.  Planning and development of
schemes would be carried out by Scheme Managers, responsible to Provincial
Managers, and supported by a Land Planner (three years only), a Forest
Ranger, and a Mechanical Supervisor. Sections would be developed under
the responsibility of a resident Section Manager assisted by a deputy
(from the second year on) and four Section Assistants, who would be increased
by two in the third year and by a further two in the fifth year of develop-
ment. T'his ratio of staffing would provide one extension worker to about
20 farmers in the initial years of development dropping to 1:50 at full
operation.  For numbers and phasing of staff, see Annex 13.  No problems



- 15 -
in recruiting staff to fill the posts of Section Managers and Section
Assistants are anticipated.
C. Credit
5.05      In place of the present arrangements whereby block credit alloca-
tions are made by AFC to TBZ, credit provided under the project to farmers
would be channeled by Government direct to TBZ. With the staffing and
organizational arrangements envisaged, TBZ would be well qualified to im-
plement and administer the credit program since project staff would be
directly invovled in all stages of the lending process. Recovery for both
seasonal and medium-term credit, both for tobacco and maize, would be by
stop order on sales of tobacco.
D. Research
5.06      Tobacco research is adequately catered for, both in neighboring
countries and on Government Research Stations located throughout the tobacco
growing areas. Investigations into barn design, improved curing, and packing
methods and use of alternative fuels are carried out at the TBZ training
units located at Popota and Mukonchi.
E. Training
.5.07     There is an acute shortage of suitably trained Zambians for the
senior supervisory posts, such as Scheme Managers. Virtually all senior
personnel in TBZ are currently expatriate and it seems improbable that
suitable Zambians could be found to fill all these posts. Therefore, provision
is made, within the project organization, for training posts at the level of
Deputy Project Manager and Deputy Scheme Manager.
5.08      Popota Tobacco College, run by TBZ, has been designed to train
and accommodate up to 30 Section Managers per annum. A one-year course,
practical in nature, includes tobacco and maize production, land planning,
management, and accounting. Section Assistants are trained at Popota College
and at Mukonchi Training Unit. A one-year practical couLrse of instruction,
which includes tobacco and maize production and extension methods, is fol-
lowed by in-service training. The number of assistants under training can be
varied according to demand as the accommodation and teaching facilities at
both training colleges are sufficient to meet maximum project staff needs.
F. Recruitment of Growers
5.09      No problems are envisaged in obtaining adequate numbers of
suitable project participants. With the advent of tobacco growing, and in
the absence of alternative cash crops, the present demand for holdings in
settlement areas exceeds supply and would continue to do so even without
the subsidy on tobacco. In areas where farmers are alretady established on



- 16 -
their own farms (para 4.09), ready acceptance of tobacco as a new cash crop
is anticipated. Participants for settlement schemes are selected through
District Development Committees and District Governors after consultation
with the Chief of the applicant's home area. In extension areas, farmers'
holdings are inspected and final selection done by TBZ in conjunction with
Village Headmen or Chiefs.
G. Marketing
5.10      Grading of the tobacco crop would be performed on farm by the
farmer, under the supervision of the section staff. Leaf would then be
delivered to the central TBZ baling shed, located within the section area,
where each grade would be weighed and classified. At this stage, the
tobacco would lose the identity of the individual farmer as each classified
grade would be bulked, baled, and subsequently transported to the auction
floor in Lusaka. The payout to farmers is calculated from the average
realization price of each grade into which his tobacco was classified and is
net of baling expenses, transport, auction charges, field-to-floor insurance,
handling, levy and commission, hail insurance (Annex 8), as well as stoppages
for seasonal and medium-term credit repayments, and a levy to cover costs of
extra extension services and infrastructure directly related to the tobacco
crop (para 6.12).
5.11      NAMB would provide a market for all project-produced maize to be
sold: purchase would be on the schemes or at adjacent buying points. NAMB
owns and operates bulk and bagged storage facilities throughout the country.
H. Project Evaluation
5.12      TBZ would directly administer the provision of inputs, the sale
of tobacco, and control of extension staff, and would obtain records of
maize sales through NAMB. There would be sufficient staff both in the field
and at head office to collect all relevant data required to make a continuing
assessment of the operation of the project and its results. Progress of
the project would be monitored by an annual evaluation of results, which
guide planning of future extension to the smallholder tobacco program.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that annual progress reports would
be submitted by TBZ before January 31 for the previous crop year. Prior to
effectiveness of the loan, detailed proposals for project evaluation would
be submitted by TBZ and agreed upon with the Bank.



- 17 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Yields and Production
6.01      The average yields and production assumed for tobacco grown by the
project participants are:
Farmer
Year      Yield, Cured Leaf          Area      Production
(kg/ha)               (ha)          (kg)
1             650                  0.50           325
2             700                  0.65           455
3             800                  0.80           640
4             900                  0.90           810
5-on         1,000                   1.00        1,00(
The progression in yields is based on results from existing one-acre scheme
farmers and records of other growers' yields maintained by TBZ.
6.02      Tobacco production in the project areas would build up as follows:
Project   Number of                                        Project
Year      Farmers         Area           Production      Av. Yield /1
(ha)              (kg)         (kg/ha)
1        1,650          1,048             768,950          734
5        6,290          4,975           4,256,000          941
10        8,760          8,520           8,337,000          978
15-on      8,760          8,760           8,760,000        1,000
/1    Weighted average yield of all farmers irrespective of
their period of participation in the scheme.
This progression is detailed in Annexes 7 and 8.
6.03      It is assumed that each farmer would establish 1 ha of maize in
his first year in the project and that yields would increase from 30 bags
(of 90 kg)/ha in the first year to 35 in year 2, 40 in year 3, and 50 from
year 4 onwards. Production of hybrid maize is estimated to increase as
follows:
Project                                                   Project    /1
Year       Total Area          Total Production        Average Yield-
(ha)               (90/kg bags)          (90/kg bags)
1           1,650                     58,000               35
5           6,290                    263,000               42
10           8,760                   431,000                49
15           8,760                   438,000                50
/1    Weighted average yield of all farmers irrespective of
their period of participation in the scheme.,
These yields are considered realistic averages for fertilized hybrid maize.



- 18 -
B. Markets and Prices
6.04      Virtually all of Zambia's tobacco exports go to Europe, particularly
to the United Kingdom. Zambia is a small exporter, accounting for only 1.4%
of UK purchases and under 1% of the requirements of an enlarged European
Economic Community (EEC). The project would not, therefore, affect prices on
the principal markets.
6.05      The growth prospects of the tobacco market as a whole are not
bright. Import demand in Europe has stagnated and new blends using low-
price tobacco have been developed. Within Europe, increased production
in Italy will also ultimately affect imports. Zambia has not taken the
opportunity offered by the embargo on Rhodesian tobacco to expand its
markets, and future competition will undoubtedly be stiffer. On the other
hand, Zambia, as a small producer of a quality tobacco that is well
regarded by European buyers, should still seek to expand its flue-cured
production, since it will be able to sell all it can produce. The price
level is the major problem for consideration.
6.06      Factors both within and outside Zambia's control will influence
the returns to Lusaka auctions in the 1970's and 1980's. Chief among these
will be (a) the attainment by Zambia of Associated Overseas Territory (AOT)
status within the enlarged EEC, (b) developments that affect the marketing
of Rhodesian tobacco, and (c) the administration of the tobacco policy
(Annex 14). The project would have the effect of increasing throughput on
the auction floor, which is expected to result in more buyers, more
competitive bidding, and relatively higher prices. However, on balance, some
downward pressure on prices at constant values can be anticipated.
6.07      With over 60% of total exports currently going to the enlarged EEC
and with the loss of Commonwealth preferences when the UK enters the market,
it would appear to be in the interest of Zambia to seek AOT status. To date,
applications by less developed countries for association have been sympatheti-
cally treated. Therefore, it has been assumed that Zambia will apply for
and be granted AOT status in the EEC, gaining access to the market, with
preferential duty arrangements relative to third countries, equivalent to
20 n/kg on export weight. It is also anticipated that Rhodesia will have no
formal association with EEC and will continue to be denied access to the UK
market, even though open auctions of 50 to 100 million kg/year will possibly
take place. Finally, it is assumed that the common agricultural policy of
EEC operates to limit imports from third countries to aggregate 1963-65
levels, thus particularly restricting imports of cheap tobacco from China,
Brazil, and India, which are new suppliers. Sensitivity tests have been made
of variations of all key assumptions and these are shown in Annex 15.
6.08      The Lusaka auction prices in constant terms have been taken initially
as 69 n/kg, falling to 67n/kg in 1975 and 62n/kg in 1985 (Annex 14, Table 4).
The sensitivity of the project to these prices has been tested at 10% and 20%
levels.



- 19 -
6.09      All maize would be produced for the home market.  In full
operation, the project would be responsible for production of about 5% of
the anticipated national demand.
6.10      A large part of Zambia's maize production is d,erived from the
commercial sector and the costs facing this sector effectively place a floor
under NAMB offer prices. High transport costs on maize imported from
overseas or the Republic of South Africa -- estimated at K 1.50 per bag --
mean that, except in years of world glut, Zambian producers can receive
above-floor prices without exceeding import parity levels, which average over
K 5.00 per bag. However, as unit production costs fall with the use of
hybrid seed, it is anticipated that about K 3.50/bag on line-of-rail would
be the long-term equilibrium price, and K 3.25 would be paid away from
line--of-rail. Prices in the early stages of the project may be rather above
this level. The NAMB selling price to millers has recently been raised to
K 4.42/bag. At this level, with a farmer price of K 3.50/bag and the
throughput anticipated, NAMB should be able to break even on its maize
operations. No allowance has been made in the Government budgetary position
(Annex 17) for continuing subsidies to NAMB.
C. Financial Results
Growers
6.11      A typical farm budget for a project farmer (Annex 8) indicates
that over the first 4 years the average annual cash return to the farmer
is estimated to be K 147 (US$206), rising to K 345 (US$483) in year 5, and
that from the sixth year of production, when the farmer would have repaid his
medium-term loan for barn and grading shed construction, he would be left with
a net income of K 416 (US$582) per annum, based on unsubsidized prices for
inputs and tobacco. This income is substantially better than what could be
obtained from any other activity in the project areas and equal to, or better
than, that available from most other smallholder cash crops. This family
cash income can be compared with the average annual wage earned in the mines by
African workers of K 1,500 and by employees in commercial agriculture of
K 400. Smallholders outside the project probably have a family cash income
of under K 25 per annum.
6.12      At present, in addition to the direct marketing charges which
amount to 11.7 n/kg, farmers pay a further 10.3 n/kg to cover development
costs (see para 3.12). The project proposes that the present level of
development levy be maintained as it would, over the program period of 20
years, cover the present value of all development costs directly related
to the tobacco crop. TBZ carries out an annual review of direct marketing
costs, and to ensure continuation of this policy assurances were obtained
at negotiations that TBZ would advise the Bank, prior to the opening of
the auction floors, the level of marketing charges for that season.
6.13      The tobacco price subsidy is presently under r,eview and Gov-
ernment intends to abolish it at an early date. The farn budget shown



- 20 -
in Annex 8 demonstrates that project farmers would attain satisfactory income
levels without a price subsidy. As pointed out in para 2.03 the subsidy is
paid as part of a support price to all tobacco growers who would therefore
receive it for their tobacco, whether they need it or not. In the event,
however, that the tobacco price subsidy would not be removed by the time
tobacco crops produced by project farmers came to be sold then Government
would take all necessary steps to ensure that project farmers would not
benefit from any price subsidy. Assurances to this effect were obtained
at negotiations.
Tobacco Board of Zambia
6.14      TBZ has dual functions, first as a marketing and processing
organization and second as an agency for Government carrying out development,
training, and extension programs. Funds for development operations are
received from Government in the form of grants. Funds to carry out the
marketing and processing functions are derived from fees, and loans for the
purchase of fixed assets. Operating losses are made up by Government grants
(K 1,025,000 in 1970 of which K 257,000 was for interest alone).
6.15      TBZ took over from its predecessor auction and processing facilities,
designed to cope with tobacco crops vastly in excess of those that have actually
been produced since their construction. Consequently as a marketing and process-
ing organization, 86% of the capital employed is in interest bearing loans. In-
terest charges are such that Government subventions would continue to be necessary
until TBZ reached an annual throughput of about 20 million kg of tobacco, a
TBZ reached an annual throughput of about 20 million kg of tobacco, a
level which is unlikely to be achieved even with the project. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that Government would make and implement
proposals, subject to Bank approval, for the capitalization of TBZ so as
to establish it on a sound financial basis.
6.16      As a development agency for Government, TBZ would administer the
development funds of the project. With the exception of credit funds, these
would not carry interest payable by TBZ (para 4.22). Even so, for each of
the first seven years, development levies paid to TBZ by project participants
would be less than the development and operating costs and this difference
would have to be met by Government development grants. Thereafter no further
grants would be required and annual surpluses from the development levy would
be paid to Government. The project cash flow is given at Annex 16. The
cash surplus shown is the accumulation of the difference in interest on
credit funds paid by TBZ to Government and interest received by TBZ on funds
lent to farmers.  It has been assumed that this surplus will be applied to
cover bad debts.
Government
6.17      A cash flow for Government is shown at Annex 17.  This demonstrates
that, at the end of the twenty first year, there would be a cumulative
surplus of K 4.5 million (US$6.3 million). It also demonstrates, however,
a deficit over years one to eight during the development period of



- 21 -
the program. This early deficit arises for two main reasons. Firstly,
project farm incomes build up gradually over the years and are not subject
to income tax but, nevertheless, farmers would contribute to Government
revenues through indirect sales taxes. These are estimated to average
about 10% of consumption expenditure.  Thus, on the assumption that K 45
would be retained as savings, farmers would each contribute about K 35
annually to Government revenue at full development or K :335,000 for all
project participants. This contribution would offset, by the end of the
project period of 20 years, the infrastructure costs in the project not
directly related to tobacco production and marketing, such as schools,
dispensaries, roads, and water supplies. Secondly, as mentioned in para 6.16
development levies paid to TBZ by project participants do not cover develop-
ment and operating costs during the development phase, but thereafter more
than off-set operating costs. The attention of Government has been drawn
to the funding requirements of the project.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project's major benefit will be increased production of
flue-cured tobacco and maize, and virtually all the tobacco production would
be exported. Production from the project would be by Zambian smallholders,
using family labor. The farmers involved would not significantly increase
production of either crop without the project. Production of tobacco from
the project would reach 4.3 million kg a year after five years and exceed
8.0 million kg a year from the tenth year. The gross annual export value
of this crop would be K 3 to 3.5 million (US$4.2 to 4.9 million) after five
years and K 7.5 to 8.0 million (US$10.5 to 11.2 million) by about 1985.
If, as is expected, the larger total crop results in increased pre-export
processing within Zambia the gross foreign exchange earnings from tobacco
would be enhanced by over K 1 million by 1985. Maize production is expected
to exceed 260,000 bags a year after five years and, by 1985 to be over
430,000 bags a year, worth K 1.4 million (US$2.1 million) to growers.
7.02      The program provides an increased livelihood for nearly 9,000
farm families and gives full time employment to some 30,000 adults. Average
net family cash income is expected to be increased by about K 400 a year
without impairing subsistence production. Annual consumption expenditures
of some K 3.6 million by project farmers are expected to yield Government
K 335,000 in customs and excise revenue. However, because of a rather
high propensity to import, they may also result in increased foreign exchange
expenditures of about K 1.0 million a year at full development in addition to
project requirements and debt service, which run at K 0.9 million and K 0.98
million per annum, respectively. Net foreign exchange earnings are thus
expected to be of the order of K 6.1 million (US$8.5 million) annually.
7.03      The project has a number of less readily quantifiable benefits.
Because smallholders rely on family labor, they are better placed to continue
production in the face of increasing labor costs and relatively lower prices.
This, and the switch in emphasis in production to a more stable section of



- 22 -
the farming community, would strengthen Zambia's future competitive position.
There is surplus capacity available in the auction floor and packing plants
in Zambia, which involves Government in an annual deficiency payment. The
additional production from this project would enable the auction floor to
meet all costs and the packing plant to cover recurrent costs.  The project
includes pilot schemes that could lead to a second-phase project, and it
provides practical training for staff who could supervise these expansions.
Health and education benefits arise from the facilities provided within the
project. These benefits have not been quantified.
7.04      Over 20 years the program would yield an internal rate of return
of about 20% to the economy, or 18% if development is stopped after the
disbursement period of five years. The costs and returns incorporated in
this calculation are shown in Annex 18. In the extreme case envisaged in
Annex 14, in which it is assumed that Rhodesia gained Associated Overseas
Territory (AOT) status in the European Economic Community and devalued by
14%, vis-a-vis the US dollar, the return to the project would still be 10%.
Details of this and a number of other sensitivity tests are shown in Annex 15.
An opportunity cost of K 25 has been attributed to family labor. For
details, see Annex 18.
7.05      A project risk analysis has been prepared.  This analysis has taken
into account alternative probabilities of:
(a) Zambia with AOT status, Rhodesia with current status;
(b) Zambia not attaining AOT status, Rhodesia with current
status;
(c) Zambia with AOT status and third country benefits of
20 n/kg export weight, Rhodesia with no formal status,
open auctions and no access to UK market; and
(d) Zambia as for (c), Rhodesia with AOT status; 14%
currency devaluation in relation to US$, unlimited
access to 10-member EEC.
Linked to each of the above assumptions, probabilities of various tobacco prices
and production levels being achieved have been taken. Varying maize yields
and prices, and different levels of project costs have also been incorporated
into the analysis. The result of this analysis is that there is only a 2%
probability of the economic yield being less than 10% and a 90% chance the
yield will exceed 14% (details are at Annex 19).



- 23 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a)  That prior to the beginning of each tobacco year the location
and development program for section and pilot schemes would be
agreed with the Bank (paras. 4.05 and 4.06). Furthermore no
farmer would be selected to participate unless he had sufficient
land to maintain a crop rotation and natural timber for at least
four years' tobacco curing (para. 4.09);
(b)  That an agreement would be concluded between Government and
TBZ under which credit funds from Government would be lent
to TBZ at 7-1/4% per annum for onlending to farmers at 9-1/2%
per annum for seasonal credit and 12% per annum for medium-term
credit (para. 4.23). No farmer would receive credit to grow
more tobacco and maize than could be handled by family labor
(para. 4.15);
(c)  That appointments to the post of manager of Family Farming
Schemes, and Provincial Managers would be made by TBZ who
would inform the Bank in sufficient time to enable comment
on their suitability before expiration of this respective
probationary period (para. 5.03);
(d)  That Project farmers would not benefit from any tobacco
price subsidy (para. 6.13); and
(e)  That detailed proposals to place TBZ on a sound financial
basis would be submitted by June 30, 1973 (para. 6.15).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)  submission by TBZ of the design of project evaluation
(para. 5.12);
(b)  appointment of Manager (Family Farming Schemes), Provincial
MIanager (Southern Province), Provincial Manager (Eastern
Province) and Scheme Manager (Western Province) (para. 5.03).
8.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$11.5 million for a term of 20 years including a griace period of 5 years.






ANN 
ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Estimated Production and Value: Major Crops, 1971 Harvest
Marketed    Price to    Value to
C9LG2                Production   Growers      Growers      Ar-i
tm tons)   (K/m ton)    ('K '000)    (fta )
Mdize /1                   378,000       44.44        16,798   53,1 '
Virginia Tobacco             5,910      705 /3         4,167    5,63':
Seed Cotton                 10,890      176 /4         1,917     n.a.
troudxiLuts                  5,040      128 /5           607      ul.
Milk                        15,688       n.a.          1,120       -
Beef                        11,800       n.a.          5,100 /6
/1   A record year.  From the 1970 harvest, a poor one, productlo.
for sale was only 124,000 m tons, worth K 4.8 million to
growers.
/2   Commercial growers only.
/3   Excludes subsidy paid in 1971.  With subsidy price was K 80-,rl.
ton.
L4   Grade 'A', delivered to ginnery.
/5   Grade 'A;, NAMB price on line-of-rail.  Value is actual
payments to growers.
/6   Interpolated.
May 15, 1972



ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FA4I4LY FARMING PROJECT
Area Under Tobacco, Yields and Production
t;y ByllIqs -o!- r-G-MWe-r
l9E57T77,7-a-n7 19(71-971
Estimates for
1969/70                                    1970/71                         1971/72
Area  Yields      Production              Area    Yields   Production                 Area
Growers               Number  iha   (kg/ha)   (kg'500) (  %)    Number   =       (kg/ha) (kg'OOO)  (%)     Number   TFY
Commercial              132   3,311     885     2,930   61.0      116   3,037    1,084   3,292    55.6       98     2,553
Tenants                  70  1,754      898     1,575   32.8       66   1,670    1,047   1,748    29.6       69     1,620
Assisted Tenants         15      45   1,142        51    1.1        24    306    1,026      314     5.3      34        336
1-Acre Schemes            1      45    643         29    0.6         6     157      641     101     1.7       6        238
Training Centers          3     219     781       171    3.6         4     354    1,151     407     6.9       3       642
Cooperative Ftrms         8      95    476         45    0.9         8     110      490      54     0.9       8       109
229   5,469     886     4,801  100.0      224   5,634    1,049   5,916  loo.o       218     5,509
May 15, 1972



ANNEX 3
ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Virginia Flue Cured Tobacco
Area, Yield, Production Price and Value:
1959/60 - 1970/71
Crop Season        Area       Yields       Production       Price      Value
(ha)     (kg/ha)        ('000 kg)        (n/kg)   (K -'0o)
1959/60        6,004         944           5,668          62        3,492
1960/61        6,862         983           6,745          62       4,155
1961/62        6,830       1,075           7,341          64        4,684
1962/63        8,255         853           7,041          75        5,267
1963/64       10,166       1,081          10,986          51        5,559
1964/65        6,579       1,005           6,614          59        3,928
1965/66        6,870         964           6,623          68        4,517
1966/67        4,591       1,061           4,873          97        4,717
1967/68        5,927      1,062            6,295          68        4,294
1968/69        5,749         875           5,032          77        3,904
1969/70        5,469         886           4,801          62 /1    2,960
1970/71       5,634        1,049           5,916          68 /1    4,073
Ll   Excludes subsidy.
May 15, 1972






ANNEX 4
Page 1
ZAINBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Tobacco Board of Zambia (TBZ)
1.        The Tobacco Board of Zambia (TBZ), a statutory body, came into
being on April 1, 1968, when it succeeded the former Tobacco Industry Board,
which, itself, inherited the functions of the Tobacco Marketing Board, set
up under the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland.
2.        The Board is currently composed of eight members, the chairman
being the Minister of Rural Development and the Vice ChaLrman, the Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Rural Development. Other members represent the
Ministry of Trade, tobacco growers, tobacco trade, and commercial banks.
The Board appoints committees if necessary, with the power to carry out
special and general functions. Day-to-day affairs of TBZ are run by the
General Manager, who is not a member of the Board. The Board is empowered,
under the Tobacco Act and its amendments, to carry out the following functions:
(a) promote, control, and regulate the production, marketing,
and export of tobacco;
(b) carry out research in connection with all aspects of
tobacco growing and production;
(c) own, maintain, and operate tobacco auction floors and
packing plants, to grant concessions to third parties
to operate them, and to subsidize, where necessary,
their operations;
(d) buy and sell tobacco, if in the industry's interest;
(e) make loans to farmers and guarantee the payment of
loans made to farmers by any bank or lending authority
for the production of tobacco;
(f) lease or sublease land or to grant rights of occupancy
of lands held by the Board to persons for the purpose
of producing tobacco or other ancillary crops, and impose
conditions of use and occupancy upon any lessees or
occupiers;
(g) subject to the directions and with the written
authority of the Minister, act as agents of
the Government of Zambia in any matter, or for any
purpose, directly or indirectly affecting the
tobacco industry;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(h) with the approval of the Minister, establish
and operate institutions for the training of persons
in the production and marketing of tobacco and in
the running of tobacco farms, auction floors, or
other activities ancillary to the production and
marketing of tobacco;
(i) train persons and establish and run training
courses in the production and marketing of tobacco,
and in any other activity the Board deems necessary
beneficial to, the tobacco industry generally; and
(j) appoint and remunerate managing agents, visiting
agents, and other consultants which the Board deems
necessary for the better exercise of the functions and
powers conferred upon it by the Act.
3.        Comparative balance sheets at December 31st, 1969 and 1970 are
shown in Table 1. Table 2 presents a comparative statement of the total
subsidy account for 1969 and 1970. Some 86% of TBZ's capital is in the
form of interest bearing loans, being funds lent by Government for the
purchase of fixed assets. At present, TBZ is financially reliant upon
Government subvention payments (1969, K 794,000, 1970, K 1,025,000). Included
in these payments is the interest payable on Government loans (1969, K 237,000,
1970, K 257,000). Also included in the payments are depreciation and reserve
account allocations (1970, K 287,000) which are non cash in nature and have
allowed TBZ to build up a cash fund of K 1,273,500 as of December 31st, 1970.
At the time of appraisal, 1972 budgets, showing a subvention payment require-
ment of K 800,000, had been agreed with Government. If interest were to
be eliminated from this, it has been estimated that a throughput of about
15 million kg would be required in order for TBZ to be financially independent.
Including interest, the breakeven point is reached at about 20 million kg.
Assuming no increased production above the present level from outside this
project, a throughput of about 15 million would be reached in yar 14 of
the project. Any excess production would allow TBZ to pay dividends.
May 15, 1972



ANNEX 4
Table 1
ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Tobacco Board of Zambia
Balance Sheet - December 31, 1970
1970                      1969
K            K            K            K
FIXED ASSETS                            4,327,401                  4,267,606
INVESTMENT                                300,000                      -
CURRENT ASSETS
Stock                         3,605                     68,417
Consumable stores
at cost                    69,940                     59,698
Debtors and prepayments      47,999                     17,365
Accrued interest             50,548                     214,220
F.unds on deposit         1,273,500                    9165,800
Cash and bank balances       86,290                    409,855
1,531,882                 1,496,355
16,159,283                K5,763,391
LQAN CAPITAL
Government of the
Republic of Zambia      43941,359                  4,67B,359
Building Societies           72,042                        -
5,013,401                 4,678,359
RESERVES
General                     154,966                     103,536
Modernization               127,160                     111,830
Repairs and maintenance     209,793                     197,957
Devaluation                  21,094                      64,157
Special grant               300,000                      -
813,013                   477,480
CURENT LIABILITIES
Creditors and accrued
liabilities               203,355                     212,312
Contract retentions           8,868                      10,868
Bills payable               120,646                     384,942
332,869                    608,122
R.C. KAMANGA - CHAIRMAN
D.R. MACKAY  - GENERAL MANAGER      332,869                    608,122
K6,159,283                K5,763,961
May 15, 1972



ANNEx 4
Table 2
ZAMBIA
INTEWRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Tobacco Board of Zambia
Subsidy Account for the Year Ended December 31, 1970
1970            1969
K
SUBSItY APPROPRIATED!/            K1,O25,O0O       K  793,600
APPROPRIATED TO REV13UE
ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR
Administration                 200,683           69,292
Auction floor                  104,1421          81,945
Eixport promotion                1,114            9,164
Packing planti                 666,326          593,168
Housii,g                        27, 655           3,173
16rehouse                       18,375          14,454
Burley tobacco                   5,670            6,634
Oriental tobacco                   756           15,770
KL,025,000      K  793,600
1/ See paras 6.14 and 6.15.
2/ Two-thirds of the amount of subsidy shown is accounted for by
depreciation of plant and buildings and interest payments to
Government.
September 1, 1972



ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMYhG PROJECT
Maize: Marketed Supply, Price, Area and Yield
1964-1971
Harvest                      Local        Producer   Smallholder        Commercial       Comm,,ercial    Commercia
Year       To-tal Sales  Conumptioa/    PrIce    Production            Production          Area           Yield
(M.ton        (.- tonT       i7;T;n)    (tons) KJtY                  Y          i  (7a9 go   bags ha)
196)4         ]98,010)      175,630         38.02       72,290        121,720      63      37,297           36.2
1965          25) 8,320     1998,080        38.02       61,220        1 93,  00    76      51,637           L .5
1966           377,580      205J1L0         36.59      143,390        238,1190     62       71,41-          36.8
1967           37L,660      231 ,Q6         3iL.16     143,210        231,470      62      56,4.15          45.5
1968           209,2¾0      265, 5',        31.96       92,880        156,360      63       35556           l8.8
1969           253,180      290,200         35.26       66,  0        186,660      74,     33,631           61.6
1970           ]2),,370     345,340         38.57       2),590         93,780      be,0     42,574          25.9
1971(est)      378,000      3600,000        U1 .11    135,000        283,000      6'       53,110          5O .8
1972(est)      565,oO0       385900         It.77        n.a.           n.a.      n.a.       n.a.           n.a.
a/  Inclune ,-tock feed.
August 7, 1972



ANNEX 6
ZAMBIA
DITEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
The Development of Smallholder Tobacco Growing
In 1968/69, 28 one-acre growers were established at Zemba in
Eastern Province on a scheme developed by the Production Department of
Tobacco Board of Zambia (TBZ). Yields in the first year averaged 825 kg/ha.
Subsequently expansion has taken place on seven other scheme areas and over
900 farmers will be participating in 1972/73, growing about 550 ha of
tobacco. Performance of the growers is shown below. Yields in 1971/72 are
expected to be over 850 kg/ha, a marked improvement on the two previous
years. These were climatically adverse, and marketed production was also
lost in 1970/71 due to inadequate farm-level storage and because of
administrative difficulties which lead to a late payout on the crop.
Payout procedures for the current crop have been streamlined and in the
project assistance will be given to farmers in the erection of their baling
shed to ensure adequate storage at the time of the first harvest.
"ONE-ACRE" SCHEIME FAMUERS: NO. OF GROWERS, AREA, PRODUCTION AND YIELD
Number of
Growers       Area       Production       Yield
(ha)       ('000 kg)      (kg/ha)
1968/69                 28            11           9.4           825
1969/70                 46            45          28.8           643
1970/71                312           157         100.5           641
1971/72                539          238           n.a.           n.a.
1972/73 /1             900          550           n.a.           n.a.
/1   Estimate only.
May 15, 1972



ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Number of Project Participants and their Phasing, and Project Production
Existing    73/74    74/75    75/76    76/77    77/78    78/79    79/80    80/81    81/82    82/83    83/84    84/85    85/86
SOUTHERN SECTIONS
Section      1                    200         300      350       400      400       400      400      400      400       400      400       400      400       400
2                    20           70      120      200       300      350      400       400      400      4oo       400      400       400      400
3                    -            -        20       70       120      200      300      350       400      400       400      400       400      400
4                    -            20       70      120      200       300      350      4oo       400      400       400      400       400      400
5                    -            -        20       70       120      200      300       350      400      400       400      400       400      400
EASTERN SECTIONS
Lundazi      1                     70         120      200       300      350      400       400      400      400       400      400       400      400      400
2                    70          120      200      300       350      400      400       400      400      400       400      400       400      400
3                    -           20        70      120      200       300      350      400       400      400       400      400      400       400
4                    -            20       70      120      200       300      350      400       400      400       400      400       400      400
5                    -            -        20       70       120      200      300      350       400      400       400      4oo      400       400
Zemba/Vubwe  1                    120         200      300       350      400      400       400      400      400       400      400       400      400      400
2                   120          200      300      350       400      400      400      400       400      400       400      400       4oo      400
3                   120         200       300      350      400       400      400      400       400      400       400      400      400       400
4                   120         200       300      350      400       400      400      400       400      400       400      400      400       400
5                    _            -        20       70       120      200      300      350       400      400       400      400       400      400
UNALLOCATED SECTIONS
Unallocated  1                     -           -         20       70      120       200      300      350       400      400      400       400      400       400
2                    -            -        -        20        70      120      200       300      350      400       400      400       400      400
3                    -            -        -        20        70      120      200       300      350      400       400      400       400      400
4                    -            -        -        20        70      120      200       300      350      400       400      400       400      400
5                    -            -        -        20        70      120      200       300      350      400       400      400       400      400
WESTERN PROVINCE SECTION
Kaoma Section                      70         120       200      300      350       400      400      400       400      400       400      400      400       400
PILOT SCHEMES
Pilot Scheme 1                     -           20        70      120      120       120      120      120       120      120       120      120      120       120
2                    -            20       70      120       120      120      120       120      120       120      120      120       120      120
3                    -            20       70      120       120      120      120       1120              120       i2u      1         120      120
TOTAL NO. GROWERS          910       1,650    2,790    4,050    5,190    6,290    7,310    8,110    8,560    8,760    8,760    8,760    8,760    8,760
NQ. OF GROWERS IN lst yr.         450         740    1,14o    1,260    1,140    1,100    1,020        800       450      200       -        _
2nd "          310          45o      740    1,140    1,260    1,14o    1,100    1,020        800       450      200       -
3rd "          130          310      450      740    1,140    1,260    1,14o    1,100    1,020         800      45o      200       -        -
4th             20          130      310      45o       740    1,140    1,260    l,14o    1,100    1,020        800       45o      200      -
5th "           -            20      130      310       450      740    1,140    1,260    1,140    1,100    1,020         800      45°      200
6th "           -            -        20      150       46o      910    1,650    2,790    4,050    5,190    6,290    7,310    8,110    8,560
PRODUCTION
Tobacco ('000 kg)                 380         769    1,397    2,228    3,183    4,256    5,374    6,401    7,244    7,898    8,337    8,603    8,722    8,760
Maize ('000 90 kg bags)            30          58       102      154       207      263      319       364      398      420       431      437       438      438
August 7, 1972



ANNEX 8
ZAMBSIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Fanm Budget (K)
Year         1        2         3        4        5         6 onwards
I     CROPPING PATTERN AND
EXPECTED YIELDS
Acrea,,e Tobacco (ha)                             0.5     o.65      0.80    0.90       1.0       1.0
Tobacco Production (kg)!/                        325       455       640     810    1,00o    1,000
Acreage Maize (ha)                               1.0       1.0       1.0     1.0       1.0       1.0
Maize Production (Bago of
90 kg)                                          30        35        40      50        50        50
II    CASH INIFLOW (K)
Tobacco Cror Sales./                           221.0    309.4    430.8   534.6    640.0    640.6
haize Crop Salesj/                             105.0    122.5    14O.0   175.0    175.0    175.0
Mediui:-Terrn Loan drawn
down                                         166.O
TOTAL                        492.0    431.9    570.8   709.6        815.0   815.0
_II   CASH OOTFLOW
ba,~ Capital Items
Small Tools                                    6
String & Polythene Sheeting                   26
Barn Equipment                                40                  20/2
Grading ..hed Materials and
Assistance in Construction                   74
Transuort of Materials                        20
Work Ox                                                                   50
Plough, Ridger, Chain, etc.                                               67
ContingencieS 10%                                                  2      15          2
SUB-TOTAL                     l666/    _          22      164         22      -
'b) Recurrert On-Farm Costs (K)
Cultivations                                40.0     17.0      21.0
Seedlings and Maize Seed                    21.0      24.6     28.2    30.6        33.0    33.0
Fertilizer                                  65.o      71.9     78.8    83.4        88.O    88.0
String                                      10.0     13.0      16.0    18.0        20.0    20.0
Polythene Sheeting                           2.0       2.6      3.2      3.6        4.0      4.o
Hail Insuranceff/                            5.0       6.5       8.O     9.0       10.0    10.0
Field to Floor Insurancej/                   2.8       3.9       5.4     6.7        8.0      8.0
Baling Coots9/                               7.0       9.7     13.7    17.4        21.5    21.5
Selling Commissiono/                         4.4       6.2      8.6    10.7        12.8    12.8
Bale Handlingjj                              0.9       1.3       1.9     2.3        2.9      2.9
Transport-Field to FloorjJ/                  8.5      10.9     16.8    21.2        26.2    26.2
Transport - Maize%3/                         7.5       8.7     10.0    12.5        12.5    12.5
Transport - Firewood                          -        -          -       -        24.0    24.0
Barn and Curing Shed Maintenance              -        -       20.0    20.0        20.0    20.0
Small Tool Replacement                        -        -         3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0
SUB-TOTAL                  174.0    176.3    234.6   238.4         285.9   285.9
,c) Debt Service & Other Charges (K)
Interest on Seasonal Loanl5'                11.4      10.8     12.4    11.6        12.4    12.4
Medium-Term Debt Service
InterestL/                                 15.8      14.5     10.7      6.9        2.9      -
Frincipal                                    -       4o.-     40.0    40.0        46.0      -
Tobacco Levy41/                              0.3       ,.4       0.5     o.6        0.7      0.7
Development Feel/                           32.4      45.4     64,o    81.0       100.0   100.0
SBB-TOTAL                    59.9    111.1    127.6   140,1        162.0   113.1
TOTAL CASH OHTFLOW                     399.9    287.4    384.2   542.5       469.9   399.0
NET CASH RE'TURN TO
FARMER (K)                            92.1    144.5    186.6   167.1       345.1   416.0
I/  Based on expected yields of 650 kg/ha in Yr 1; 700 kg/ha Yr 2;  800 kg/ha Yr 3;  900 kg/ha Yr 4;
and 1,000 kg/ha Yr 5 orwards.
2/  Based on a floor price of KO.68/kg in Yr 1 and 2; KO.67 Yr 3;  KO.66 Yr 4;  KO.64 Yr 5 onwards
vide Table 4, Annex 14.
3/  Based on a price of K3.50 per bag.
4/ Construction of additional barns.
5/ Extension to grading shed.
6/  For which farmer receives the medium-term loan.
7/  K10 per ha.
8/ At 1.25% of gross sale price.
9/ At K1.46 per bale of 68 kg.
10/ At 2% of auction floor price.
l1/ KO.2 per bale of 68 kg.
12/ KO.06 per ton mile for 560 km at 80% capacity.
13/ KO0.25 per bag.
14/ At 127. per annum for eight months
15/ At 947. per annum on declining balance.
16/ KO.007 per kg.
17/ KO.10 per kg.
August 7, 1972



ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMIN(- PROJECT
Project Costs_/
(K'000)
Sub-totalMl                                               Subtotal
1973    1974      1975      1976     1977   1973-1977    1978        1979        1980        1981    i27-1981
A.  Credit
Medium-term credit 3/                   126      201       198      134        78        737          7       (59)       (126)       (156)       403
Incremental seasonal credit             242      180       213      212       220      1,o67        194       137          91          47      1,536
368     381       411       346      298      1,804        201        78        ( 35)       (109)     1,939
Incremental capital-operation
of baling sheds                       17       16        23       28        33        117         31       28           23          18        217
B.   Project Investment
Vehicles and tractors                    240     146       208       213      239      1,046        102        34          -           -        1,182
Specialized equipment                   280       57        65       44        94        540         40        31          21          20        652
Housing and buildings                   378      165       274      141       119      1,077         89        17          -           -       1,183
Dispensaries and schools                 169      -         -         -        -         169                    -          -                      169
Water, roads, soil conservation and
forestry development                  340      354       295      218       133      1,340         40       15           _           -       1,395
Operation of tractors - development
only                                   19       26        34        45       55        179                                                     179
1,426     74d       876       661       640     4,351        271         97          21         20       4,760
C.  Project Management - during development
Wages and salaries                       450     527       628       663      732      3,000        654       390         372         302       4,718
Administration                            64      69        74        78        82       367         72        57          41          41         578
Vehicle operating costs                  171     194       213       226      238      1,042        164        71          69          56       1,402
Road improvement                                    7       14        22        27        70         27        26          27          27         177
Improvement to buildings                          19        27        41        48       135         54        58          59          59         365
685     816       956    1,030    1,127       4,614        971       602         568         455       7,240
Project Costs                       2,496   1,961    2,266    2,065    2,098    10,886          1,474       805         577         414      14,156
1/ Project costs include all contingency provisions.
2/ Disbursement period for Bank loan.
3/ Medium-term credit balance reflects excess of repayments over annual requirements.
Disbursement period will account for 777. of total development costs and 91% of project investment costs.
IM 1
*May 15, 1972






ANNEX 10
Page 1
ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Seasonal- and Medium-Term Credits on-Lending Rates
Seasonal Credit
1.        Seasonal credit is made up of 82% foreign exchange and 18% local
currency. Bank rate of interest is 7-1/4% and Government Local Registered
Stock latest interest rate is 6-1/2%. Thus, net effective borrowing rate
for Government is:
82% of 7.25% = 5.945
18% of 6.50% = 1.170
7.115
2.        This rate is the minimum that Government could charge without
subsidizing. To this is added a small handling charge to give a final lending
rate from Government to TBZ of 7-1/4%.
3.        The farmer receives his credit on or about October 1st and is
paid for his crop sales on or about June 1st of the following year, giving
a credit period of eight months. In order for TBZ to recover its interest
payments over an eight-month period, since it would pay interest for a full
year the minimum on-lending rate without allowance for bLandling costs,
must be:
7.25 x 12/8 = 10.875%
However, TBZ would be in a position to invest the funds for four months on
short-term deposit at 3-1/2% per annum thus making its minimum on-lending
rate:
10.875%
less 3.5 x 4/12   =  1.166
or    9.709%
With provision for adminis-
trative costs and bad debts
of (say) 2%, the break-even
on lending rate to farmers would be   11.709 or (say) 12% p.a.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Medium-Term Credit
4.        Medium-term credit is lent for a full 12 month period; thus,
with an on-lending rate from Government to TBZ of 7.25% and, adding a
similar provision for administration and bad debts, the final on-lending
rate from TBZ to farmer would be 9.25% say 9.5% per annum.
September 5, 1972



ANNEX 11
Table 1
Z&MBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARUIING PROJECT
Purchase of Tractors, Vehicles and Equipment
Type              1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78
Pickups                21         21          3         21         15
Cars                    5         -          -           5
Lorries                  6         6         -           6          6
Motorcycles              8         3         14          8         18
Tractor Units /1        14         8         30          6         24
Water Tanker            14         14        14          6         -
Grass Slashers          14         6         13          9
Crawler Tractors         1        -          -          -
Motor Graders            2        -          -          -
Boring Rigs (large)    2          -          -          -
Boring Rigs (small)    4          -          -          -
/1   Tractor Unit - Tractor, Trailer, Plough, Disc harrow, Ridger.
Tractor only replaced in 5th year.
'August 7, 1972



ANNIEX 11
Table 2
ZAMIBIA
INiTEGRATED FAMILY FARMIING PROJECT
Seedbed & Baling Shed Equipment Required at Section Level
Year of Development of Section
ype                        Yr 1    Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5
Seedbed Irrigation Sets/            2        -        2        1       -
Presses & Boxes - Sets/             2        4        2        8      10
Weighing Scales/                    2        2        -        -       -
Classification Tables - Sets/       4        -        -        1       -
Small Tools - Sets/5                2        1        1       1        1
Humidification - Sets/               1       1        -        2       -
/1   Unit Value K600.
/2   Unit Value K150.
/3   Unit Value K300.
/4   Unit Value K100.
/5   Unit Value K200.
/    Unit Value K100.
May 15, 1972



ANNEX 12
ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Amount Expected      Cumulative            Undisbursed
to be Disbursed      Disbursement at      Amount at
Quarter Ending                  during Quarter       End of Quarter        End of Quarter
(US$ '000                                (US$'000)
December 31, 1972                      -                                      11,500
March 31, 1973                      1,125                 1,12!;              10,375
June 30, 1973                         700                1,825'                9,675
September 30, 1973                    525                 2,350                9,150
December 31, 1973                     525                 2,875                8,625
March 31, 1974                        575                 3,450)               8,050
June 30, 1974                         700                44,15(                7,350
425                4,575                6,925
September 30, 1974                    425                5,00()                6,500
December 31, 1974                     750                 5,750                5,750
March 31, 1975                        750                 6,50(                5,000
June 30, 1975
450                6,950                4,550
September 30, 1975                    450                7,40()                4,100
December 31, 1975                      750                8,15(                3,350
March 31, 1976                        575                 8,725                2,775
June 30, 1976
425                9,15C)               2,350
September 30, 1976                    425                 9,575                1,925
December 31, 1976                     825                10,40(                1,100
March 31, 1977                        450               10,850                   650
June 30, 1977
325               11,j'75                  325
September 30, 1977                    325               11,A(                       0
December 31, 1977
December 7, 1972






ANNEX 13
ZAvB IA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Staff  equirements
Project Headquarters            1973/74   1974/75   1975,'76   1976/77    1977/78
Manager (Family Farms)             1*         1          1          1           1
Deputy Manager (Family
Farms)                           1          1          1          1           1
Project Accountant                 1*         1          1          1           1
Accountant (Credit)                1          1          1          1            1
Accountant (General)               1          1          1          1           1
Internal Auditor                   1          1          1          1           1
Bookkeeper                         1*         1          1          1           1
Building Supervisor                1*         1          1          1           1
Admin/Personnel Officer            1*         1          1          1            1
Cartographer                       1*         1          1          1           1
Assist. Cartographer               1*         1          1          1           1
Assist. Stores Manager             1          1          1          1           1
Stenographer                       1*         1          1          1           1
Typists                            2*         2          2          2           2
Clerks                             2*         3          3          3           3
Stores C:erk                       1          1          1          1           1
Field & Extension Staff
Provincial Manager                 1*         1          1          1           1
Dep. Provincial Manager            1          1          1          1           1
Scheme Managers                    31/        3          3          3           3
Deputy Scheme Managers             1          1          1          4           4
Land Planner                       31/        3          3
Mechanical Supervisors             3          3          3          3           3
Section Managers                  15-./      20         214        24          24
Assist. Section Managers           8          9         15         20          21
Section Assistants                714 /     108        142        154         168
Forest Rangers                     4          4          4          4            4
Field Administrative and
Cred-lt Staf?- ~-
Accountants                        54/        5          5          5            5
Bookkeepers                        7          7          7          7            7
Typi s t s                         4          4          4          4           4
Storekeepers                       5          5          5          5           5
Orderlies                          5          5          5          5           5
Drivers                            6         12         12         12          12
Clerks                            33         39         49         54          58
Mechanics                         24         29         33         33          33
Labor                             54         64         72         72          72
*  In post.
l/ Two in post.
2/ Nine in post.
3/ Forty in post.
T/ wo in post.
May 10, 1972






ANNEX 14
Page   1
ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Analysis of Recent Trends and Outlook for Zanrbian Flue-Cured
Tobacco in Western Europe, with Projections, 1975-1985
A. Trends in Auctions and Exports, Zambia and Malawi, 1962-70
1.        Before the break-up of the Central African Fiederation at the end
of 1963, growers in the Eastern Province marketed their flue-cured tobacco
through the Limbe Auctions in Malawi, while farmers in the Central Province
and Western portion sent their tobacco to Salisbury for auction. Since 1964,
auctions have been held in Lusaka, but most tobacco bought there has been
shipped to Rhodesia and Malawi for processing, packing for export, and re-
export to final destinations. Because tobacco auctions, processing, and
shipping in Zambia and Malawi are interrelated, transactions in both
countries should be considered in the same context. Zambian auctions since
1965 have sold between 4.8 and 6.6 million kg/year of Elue-cured tobacco at
average prices similar to those at Salisbury auctions during the early
1960's (Table 1). At Limbe, in Malawi, on the other hand, successively
larger sales have been transacted at higher prices dur:ing the last six
years.
2.        To a large extent, these shifts in the relative importance of
the Lusaka and Limbe auctions reflect changes in flue-cured production since
the mid 1960's.  Zambian production has never again reached the levels of
1960/61-1965/66 while output in Malawi has increased about 5 million kg.
These trends, however, can be explained as logical responses to a number
of economic and political factors. Their continuation in the 1970's is by no
means inevitable. However, foreign buyers since 1965 have shown a strong
preference for Malawi rather than Zambia as the place in which to process and
pack tobacco for export. This preference, various diff iculties connected with
actually buying tobacco in Lusaka, and the relatively smaller supply available
have also caused regional price relationship to change since 1965. Prices
paid for Zambian tobacco since 1969 have been significamtly lower than prices
for Malawian leaf, the reverse of the price relationships characteristic of
the late 1950's and early 1960's (Table 1).
B. Trends in International Trade in Flue-Cured Tobacco, 1963-70
3.         International trade in flue-cured leaf expanded more than 22%
between 1960 and 1964, mainly because shipments from the Central African
Federation and India increased nearly 60% during these four years. Although
statistics concerning flue-cured tobacco trade have become increasingly in-
adequate since 1965, one can draw three conclusions from published estimates:



AINNEX 14
Page 2
first, import demand in developed countries has not increased measurably on
balance and may, in fact have declined; second, the net change which occurred
in other identifiable trade in unmanufactured flue-cured tobacco since 1965
has been minor, although shipments to destinations other than EEC member
countries may have increased (Table 2); and third, the structure of the
market has changed.
4.        Total exports declined sharply in 1966 because of sanctions on
Rhodesian tobaccos, but other exporters subsequently acquired most, if not
all, of this embargoed business (Table 2). Between 1965 and 1970, there
was little growth in international trade in flue-cured leaf, in marked
contrast to the average annual increase of 2.8% a year achieved during
the late 1950's and early 1960's.
5.        This change of trend in international trade during the late 1960's
reflected shortages of exportable supplies at acceptable prices, rather than
lack of effective import demand in EEC member countries, at least through
1969. Various indicative export prices increased 18 to 35% during 1966-69,
more than twice the gains in corresponding prices noted during 1961-65. 1/
Effective import demand probably declined in 1970 and 1971 in EEC member
countries. Progressively higher taxation of tobacco and tobacco products,
greater consumer response to periodic Government-sponsored appeals to smoke
fewer cigarettes, and sharply higher prices for American tobacco apparently
discouraged imports into Western Europe; and trade barriers reduced sales
to Australia during the last two years.
6.        There has been considerable change in the structure of the market
since 1965. The amount of leaf supplied by four leading exporters declined
80 million kg from 1965 to 1970, while progressively larger supplies came
from minor or non-traditional suppliers, mostly at very low prices. Although
total imports into the United Kingdom declined on balance since 1968, British
receipts from Comnmonwealth Countries other than Rhodesia, Zambia, and Malawi
doubled between 1965 and 1969, and purchases from foreign countries other
than the United States increased nearly six-fold in volume (Table 2). British
buyers clearly made major efforts to replace Rhodesian supplies and to reduce
the degree of their dependence on high-priced American leaf. These plans were
carried out to a large extent by 1969 but Zambian and Malawian leaf filled a
1/   Perhaps half the export price increase since 1965 can be explained by
the change in form in which the tobacco was shipped. Progressively
larger percentages were shipped stripped or destemmed, which normally
brings much higher value per pound. Shipments to the United Kingdom
from most origins and exports from the United States to many destinations
were particularly affected by this innovation. Nevertheless, import
values in the UK for flue-cured leaf shipped in stripped form from
the US increased 16% in American currency terms between 1965-69. The
increase in average import values for stripped leaf from all origins
between 1963-70 was only slightly less (11%) (Table 2). Corresponding
values for unstripped leaf actually declined more than 20%, but the
volume shipped in this form to Britain dropped 80%, too.



AINEX 14
Page 3
very minor role in purchases: both export and import statistics indicate this
tobacco supplies less than 3% of total British requirements and that ship-
ments did not increase very much over the last five years.
7.        Other European importers and Japan also diversified their sources
of supply for flue-cured leaf since 1965 in a similar manner. Published
trade returns indicate these trends: tobacco exports from more than a dozen
developing countries increased impressively; China (P.R.) has become a major
supplier; and the entrepot trade of Singapore is much larger today than it
was several years ago. Furthermore, most of the leaf from new suppliers has
been landed in Europe at prices in the neighborhood of 30 to 40 , lb (47 to
63 n/kg), much less than prices for manufactured flue-cured tobacco from
traditional suppliers (Table 2), although most of this probably was in
unstripped form.
C. Zambia's Competitive Position as an Exporter of
Flue-Cured Unmanufactured Tobacco
8.        Zambian growers undoubtedly will face more severe competition for
export markets during the 1970's, regardless of what happens to the current
embargoes on Rhodesian tobacco. Zambian leaf quality is very well regarded
by British tobacco manufacturers, but is more expensive than most of the
flue-cured leaf exported since 1967 from countries which were not traditional
exporters before 1966. Although British leaf buyers probably would have
bought much more tobacco in Lusaka than they did during the last six years,
if it had been available at the then prevailing Lusaka price, they probably
will not pay a higher price for Zambian tobacco in the future, having learned,
during the last five years, how to use lower quality tobacco in blended
cigarettes. This inferior tobacco from new producers was delivered to
Western Europe at prices 20 to 304/lb (31 to 47 n/kg) less than Zambian
tobacco, which, however, received an 18-1/2i/lb (29 n/kg) Commonwealth
Preference in the UK market. The differential without this preference is
greater than buyers will be prepared to pay for the extra quality of Zambian
leaf, and it will be important, therefore, that Zambia continues to receive
some sort of preferential import duty treatment in its principal markets.
With the UK a member of the EEC, and Commonwealth Preference consequently
expiring, preference can be given only to Associated Overseas Territories
(AOT) of the EEC. It is therefore important to the Zambian flue-cured tobacco
industry that Zambia acquire AOT status in the 10-member EEC.
9.        If Zambia were not awarded status as an AOT of the EEC, its
tobacco would lose between 12.7 and 15t/lb (20 to 23.6 n/kg) in duty-paid
value compared with tobacco from AOT's, some of which tnow also have
Commonwealth Preference in the UK market. If American and Zambian leaves
were granted equal duty treatment, duty-paid values in 1972 in the UK and
the EEC in fact would be nearly identical, and this is more than British
buyers in particular would pay for Zambian leaf. Furthermore, leaf from
Asian Commonwealth Countries imported into the UK since 1967 at average
values of 20 to 234/lb (31 to 36 n/kg) stripped, would continue to compete



ANNEX 14
Page 4
successfully in the 9-member EEC if Zambian tobacco did not get the
Preferential Duty Arrangement awarded to AOT's. Finally, inexpensive Far
Eastern leaf which will continue to enter the EEC to the extent permitted
by administrators of the EEC's Common Tobacco Policy, would become
correspondingly more price-quality competitive with Zambian leaf if Zambia
does not become an AOT.
10.       Attainment of AOT status undoubtedly would broaden traditional
markets for Zambian flue-cured tobacco, which since 1966 has been exported
nearly entirely to the United Kingdom. Active promotion of this leaf in
Northern Europe could attract sufficient buyer interest to double recent
sales volumes during the next 10 years, particularly if processing and
packing facilities in Lusaka are acceptable to the new buyers.
11.       Several factors beyond Zambia's control will also influence mate-
rially Lusaka auction sales during the 1970's and 1980's. Of primary
importance will be developments which affect the marketing of Rhodesian
tobacco. If Rhodesian currency were devalued, then Salisbury auction prices
during 1980-85 would probably average moderately below recent prices paid
in Lusaka and it would be necessary to offer Zambian tobacco at discounts
appropriate to attract a minimum number of buyers. On the other hand, a
devaluation of Zambian currency relative to that of other tobacco supplying
countries would increase the competitive position of Zambian leaf.
12.       Under other assumptions, it seems quite possible that more
Rhodesian tobacco will reach European markets relatively openly during the
1970's and at rather reasonable prices. In this event, an additional factor
becomes relevant: the administration of the EEC's Common Tobacco Policy in
general and the "safeguard clause'' of that policy in particular.  This clause
can be applied to give imports from AOT's preference on Communiti markets.
If Zambia became an AOT, her export prospects would be significtntly enhanced.
Although use of the safeguard clause from time to time is quite conceivable,
this action would undoubtedly be contested by the third countrLes whose trade
it affected adversely. On the other hand, the same "safeguard clause" could
be used by EEC policy administrators to exclude imports from c 1 AOT, too.
The probability of this happening in the case of flue-cured leaf seems rather
remote, unless Italian production subsequently expands enough to create
relatively serious marketing problems within the Community.
D. Alternate Projections of Lusaka Auctions,
Volumes and Prices, 1975-85
13.       Four different sets of projections are summarizec in Table 3.
These quantify estimates of how different plausible outcomes are likely to
influence sales volume and average prices on the auction floor in Lusaka.
Many alternative combinations of events are clearly possible, but analysis
was restricted to four in order to limit the number of al:ernate projections.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
Alternative II is the most likely to occur, and Alternative I is more likely
than Ia or III.
14.       AOT status or grower subsidy payments at least equivalent to EEC
Preferential Duty Arrangements (12.7 to 15J/lb or 23 to 23.6 n/kg export weight)
seem to be basic prerequisites to expanding auction sales in Lusaka at
remunerative prices. Zambian tobacco could acquire larger markets in the
enlarged (10-member) EEC during the 1980's at reasonably attractive Lusaka
prices unless Rhodesia were granted AOT status and devalued her currency
as much as 14X (Alternative III). In this event, the future of Lusaka
auctions of flue-cured leaf would be in real doubt, since neither buyer
nor grower interest could probably be maintained at the projected price
levels. Summarized Tobacco Prices are shown in Table 4.
August 7, 1972






ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Flue-Cured Tobacco in Zambia and Malavi Auction Sales and Average Prices
and Exports of Unmanufactured Tobacco, 1954, 1962, 1963, 1965-1971
1954     1962     1963      1965     1966      1967     1968      1969     1970      1971
(auction or export weights, million kgs., unless otherwise indicated)
Zambia
Sales (weight sold)                          3.9 1/ +2.8,2/   +2.5       6.6      6,3-6.6 4.6-4.9      6.3    5.0       4.8       5.9
Average Auction Prices:  ngwee per kg          -    64.4       75.9     60.2     67.3       96.6      67.3   77.6      62.6      69.o 3/
(old pence (d)/lb) 38.2a/ (35 .0)2/  (41.3)-/ (32.8?/ (36.4)   (52.6)    (42.8)  (49.3)   (39.8)   (43.8)
(US¢/lb)          (44.5)  (40-9)    (48.1)   (38.2)   (42.7)   (61.4)    (142.8)  (49.3)   (39.8)   (43.8)
Exports                                       2.3      5          /                6.3       3.9       3.4      2.7      416    n.a.
Sales (weight sold)                          3.27/  1.677/      1.77/   1.21/   1.2         1.8        2.8     2.7       4.7      6.4
Average Auction Prices, old pence (d)/lb   26.27/  32.9        33.2      32.6     37.9      51.9      43.1    47.3      45.6      49.4
Exports of Tobacco Grown in Malawi           1.2       5/        5/      1.0       1.5      1.5        1.8     2.3       3.5      n.a.
Re-exports of Zambian Tobacco Processed
and Packed in Malawi                     n.a.       5/        5/        5/      6.58/   4.08/       1.9     2.0       2.0     n.a.
Of which: Consigned to United Kingdom       n.a.       '/        §/        5      n.a.      n.a.      (3.1)   (3.3)    (3.7)    n.a.
Total Fxports of Unmanufactured Flue-Cured
Tobacco from Zambia, Malawi and Rhodesia   48.8    86.1        82.2     118.5    33.1      31.7        29.5    28.1    39.5       n.a.
Note:  Sterling-area currency devaluations during 1967  occurred after the auctions were completed that year.
Imperial Tobacco Co., Ltd., Bristol, records indicate slightly higher prices were paid at Limbe auctions during 1963-66.
1/ Production, farm or wet weight.
2/ Includes both Western Area production sold on Salisbury market and Northeastern production sold at Limbe.
T/ Exclusive of subsidy paid to grower.
7/ Average price for Salisbury auctions.
§/ Published figures concerning the origins of the flue-cured tobacco exported between 1955-64 do not seem to be readily available.
Z/ May include small amounts of other tobacco.
7/ Includes all flue-cured tobacco sold at Limbe. Nyasaland,s (Malawi's) production in 1954 was 2.0 million kg and less than 1.2
million kg, during both 1962 and 1963.
8/ Includes small quantities of burley and possibly other types, too.
9/ Include USDA estimates of exports of flue-cured tobacco of Rhodesian origin.
Source:  U.S. Department of Agriculture; Commonwealth Secretariat; World Tobacco.
May 19S 1972



ZAMBIA                                                             ANNEX 14
Table 2
IWE*RATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
International. Trade izt Unrfmsufactured Flue-Cured Tobacco; Indicators of Volume of Trade 1/
and Comparative Values of Leaf of Different Origins, Annual. 1963, 1965 - 1y70
1963      1965       1966       1967       1968       1969       1970
Indicators of_ort  Volume                                          (----------------million lbs, dry or export weights------)
USDA Estimates
Total                                                             786       844        710        75G        802        833        811
Of wtlich: Four Leading Exporters-                               (726)      (749)      (577)     (63o)      (633)      (62,)      (577)
Minor or Non-traditional Suppliers                                (62)       (95)     (131)       (120)     (169)      (209)      (236)
FAO Estimates
Total, Fleven Exporting CountriesV/                               n.a.           842L'            652        6h5        6614       677
Imports into the United Kingdon
Total t uantity                                                     30465      261.6      240.3      263.6     310.8      291.7      269.6
Of -dhich: Zambia                                                      -       (14.0)      (b.0)      (2.0)     (1.1)       (2.6)     (1.1)
Malaw      Zb     a                                                  (1.a)      (5.7)      (6.7)      (9.3)      (8.12      (8.8)
Rhodesia, Zambia, and Malawi                             (92.4)    (9 .8.)    (25 0)       to-7)    (10.4)    (10,7)        U9.9Y
Other Commonwealth Countries                             (67.4)    (69.5)    (76.6)   (105.8)   (12o.0)   (119.5)   (100.3)
Other Foreign, except the United States                   (2.9)      (7.6)      (9.3)    (17.6)    (23.7)    (2S.1)    (63.6)
Other Indicators of International Trade in Umanufactured Tobacco
Exports from Selected Origin5a/ to:
Western Europe except the United Kingdom                 243        261t       21D        213       202        204        173
Japan and Oceania                                         63         90         76         50        76         68         63
Imports into Germany (F.R.) from China (P.R.)                         1          4          9        14         17         25        n.a.
Exports of Rhodesian Tobacco (Estimated)                              6/         6/        56         58        53         50         70
Other Exports of Known Origin.L                                     152        20'        155       215        205        196        n.c.
Residual: Unidentifiable Traded/                                     60         44         60         39         70       105        n.c.
Indicators Of Average Prices of Tobacco of Different Origins    (-------------U.S. cents/lb, export weights------------------
Average g port Unit Values
India                                                     36.1       36.3       39.3       39.7      L4.3       42.8       43.0
Zambia and Malawi                                         63.3.9'/  X9.469/   43.0         L3.0       b5.0       48.0        5-.0
Canade                                                    71.6       78.9       95.0      103.7      107.2      106.4     102.6L
United States                                             82.1       85.1       92.3       94.3       96.2      103.5     109.6
(old pence/lb, exclusive of duty-,for stripped tobacco, un:less
Average Import Unit Values, United Kingdom, Selected Origins                                        otherwise stated)
South Africa                                              n.a.       32.1       37.3       25.1       7.0        67.3       66.7
Tanzania                                                    -          -        47.5       50.9       58.8       57.7       54.2
India                                                     56.5       58.5       62.1       53.2       61.0       58.9       61.9
Zambia                                                      -        60.9       54.4       77.8       78.4       73.6       82.0
Malawi                                                      -        73.9       63.5       77.3       76.5       78.h       75.8
Canada                                                    68.1       67.8       69.1       80.7       95.9       89.6       82.4
United States                                             79.9       87.0       86.8       85.5       91.3      1c6.8      113.6
Average, All Origins:  Stripped                           71.0o-/   67.2L'/   74.6L2/'  75.3          82.5       88.8       89.8
Unstripped                       71.8       64.3       64.2       60.8       67.6      66.1       66.6
n.a. = not available
n.c. = not calculated
1/  Excluding trade between Centrally Planned Countries.
2/  The United States, Southern Rhodesia, India, and Canada.
3/  Four leading exporters plus Japan, South Africa, Malawi, Zambia, Tatwan, Republic of Korea, Thailand.  No exports from
Southern Rhodesia since 1965 are included.
4/  1964-66 average.
T/  The United States, Canada, India, Malawi, and Zambia; Rhodesia before 1966; and Thailand during 1965-69.
'/  Included in exports from selected origins above.
7/  Exports from selected origins above to other destinations and exports from Republic of South Africa and Republic of Korea.
R/  Mainly exports from origins not reporting specific shipments of flue-cured leaf, presumably consigned principally to Western
Europe; errors and omissions in estimates of Rhodesian and Chinese shipments. Includes differences between trade statistics
of exporting countries and the United Kingdom, which usually accounted for over one-half of this residual figure.
9/  Average export values, Rhodesian and Nyasaland tobaccos.
10/  Including Rhodesian and Nyasaland tobaccos ( 72.8d.
1T/  Including Rhodesian tobacco ( 54.3d.
12/  Including Rhodesian tobacco ( 46.9d.
Source: U.S. Department of Agriculture; FAO; National Trade Statistics; Imperial Tobacco Company, Bristol.
May 10, 1972



ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Estimated Implications of Alternative Outcomes Concerning the European Community's Preferential Duty Arrangements
and Tobacco Policy &n Zambian Sales of Flue-Cured Tobacco, 1975 - 1985
Status with Respect to EEC Market                  Impact of EC's Common Tobacco   Likely Average Range                                 Projected Prices
(Preferential Duty Arrangements and Access to EEC)             Policy on Imports from           of Auction Sales,         Market
Zambia                        Rhodesia                         Third Countries                    Lusaka                           1975  1980  1985    1975  1980  1985
(million kg)                          ( .   USilb .....)   ... n/kg ...)
I      Associated Overseas                 1971 status; total contra-  Appopriate measures under                  7-10            Lusaka auction    53    56    62          83    89    97
Territory (ACT);  Benefits re:    band exports c. 35 million  CAP-  and/or consumer pre-
third countries equivalent to       kg  to all destinations;   ferences limit imports of
18US0c/lb (29n/kg) export weight  no tobacco entered UK.          cheap tobaccos from third
Ia     Not an AOT; loss of Commonwealth                                  countries to 1969-70 levels.            7-10             Lusaka auction    42    45    50          66    71    78
Preference Tariff to UK.
II      AOT; Benefits re: third coun-       No formal association;        Appropriate measures limit             10-12             Lusaka auction    47    50    55          74    78    86
tries equivalent to at least        open auctions in Salis-       imports from third coun-                                 Zambian export-/  53    55    60          83    87    95
12.7%/lb(20n/kg)export weight       bury, with sales of           tries other than Rhodesia
45-90 million kg/yr          to aggregate 1963-65 levels.
no access to UK market.
III      Same as IT.                         AOT status; 14 %              Appropriate measures limit         Less than 54/         Salisbury auction 37    44    49          58    6;    77
currency devaluation re      imports from third countries                             Lusaka auction    32    39    43          49    62-   67
US$;  unlimited access        as may be necessary to stabi-                            Zambian export     37    44    49        58    69    77
to 10-member EEC market.    lize AOT-EEC trade
Note:  All projections were based partly on these common assumptions:               (1)  net import demand for flue-cured leaf during the 1970's would remain near recent levels
in the 10-member EEC, but would decline 10-20% (27-59 million kg) by 1990;  (2) average export values for all US flue-cured leaf exports will increase gradually from
US$1.03/lb (Kl.62/kg) in 1968-71 to US$1.20 lb (Kl.88/kg) in 1975, US$1.30/lb (K2.04/kg) in 1980, and US$1.40/lb (K2.20/kg) in 1985, Lusaka auction prices during
1968-71 averaged 43.9USc/lb (69.0n/kg).  Salisbury auctions during 1959-61 averaged 40US¢/lb (62.8n/kg).  All prices are projected in current or actual terms.
Deflated prices stated in terms of 1970 dollars, should be 2% per year lower.
1/ The CAP's safeguard clause permits "appropriate measures" (which apparently have not been otherwise defind) to be taken if imports upset or threaten to opset the EEC
market at least until the disturbance or threat has disappeared. By implication, these measures could include the strict control of imports from third countries by
licenses, which could be suspended whenever surpluses occurred from production within the Comaunity. Consumer rejection of larger percentages of light or low quality
flue-cured tobacco in their blended cigarettes would have the same impact on these imports. Cheap (low-nicotine, neutral) tobaccos from China, Brazil, and India probably
would be affected the most by such measures.  In the absence of these measures to restrict imports into the EEC, auction prices in Lusaka and Salisbury would be at least
5US¢/lb (8n/kg) lower than the projections given in this table.
2/ The higher figure is consistent with contemporary sales in Limbe of 5-7 million kg; the lower figure assumes Malawian acutions of flue-cured tobacco in the 1980's will
exceed 9 million kg a year on the average.
3/ The margin between auction and export prices in Zambia traditionally has been unusually narrow - less than 5USq/lb (8n/kg), in contrast with as much as 18USO/lb (28n/kg)
in the Federation and as much as 30US¢/lb (47n/kg) in the US - because little processing is done in Lusaka before this leaf is shipped to a neighboring country for
processing and packing for export. Export values for Zambian tobacco would increase correspondingly if these practices changed, although auction prices would not
necessarily change significantly under these circumstances.
4/ Sales volume would be reduced by lack of buyer interest in Lusaka auctions under these circumstances. Even wider discounts under Salisbury prices than are indicated in
this table might be necessary in order to retain minimal buying activity if Salisbury auctions exceeded 90 million kg a year during the 1980's.
Source: Projections: Economics Department, IBRD.
May 15, 1972



ANNEX 14
Tab le 4
ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Zambian Flue-Cured Tobacco: Estimated Lusaka Auction Price under
Alternative Assumptions, in Constant Terms
Prices (ngwee/kg)
Assumption /1                        Base /2   1975    1980    1985
I                                69          75       72       70
Ia                               69          60       58      57
II                                69          67       63       62
III                                69          45       49       49
/1   From Table 3.
/2   Average of 1968-71.
May 15, 1972



ANNEX 15
ZANBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
The sensitivity of the internal rate of return of the project to a
number of changes to some of the basic parameters used in the evaluation was
tested. The return under these different assumptions is shown below. The
full project return with which they are to be compared is estimated at 20%.
Variation                                 Rate of Return
1.   Tobacco prices consistently down 20%                             14%
2.   Tobacco yields 20% below those assumed, at each
stage of development                                             14%
3.   Maize yields or prices drop by 20% (i.e. to 40
bags/ha or K 2.80 bag at full development)                       19%
4.   Recurrent costs increase by 20%                                  15%
5.  Rhodesia becomes AOT within EEC and devalues 14%
(Case III in Annex 14), assumed to result in a 20%
decrease in participants, and therefore in production
of maize and tobacco, while tobacco prices drop 30%              10%
6.   Project runs for 10 years only, i.e. full development
costs are incurred but longer-term benefits are truncated    12%
7.   Expansion of the project stops after 5 years, (the
development phase) but participants included at that
stage continue to operate for a full 20 years                    18%
8.   As 7., and tobacco prices or yields are down 202                 13%
9.   As 7., and maize prices or yields are down 20%                   17%
10. As 7., and both tobacco and maize yields or prices are
down 20%                                                         11%
11.  As 7., and value of tobacco sales is down 30%                    10%
August 7, 1972



ZAMBIA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Tobacco Board of Zambia - Project Cash Flow
(K'00OB)
1973       1974       1975       1976        1977       1978       1979        1980       1981       1982       1983       1984        1985       1986       1987        1988       1989       1990        1991       1992        1993
APPLICATIONS                                                                                           __        __
Capital
Housing                       227        109        136          62         34         21          17
Buildings                     151         56        138          79         85         68
Vehicles and Tractors         240        146        208         213        239        102          34        -          -           27         16         -           10         16         -           10         16         -           10
Water development             210        177         162        132         96         25
Reads development              81         98         92          69         22
Specialised equipment         280         57         65          44         94         40          31         21         20         20         22          23         23         23         23          23         23          23
Sail conservation              43         71         31           4
SBhoola sod Dispensaries   169
Forsetry                        6          8         10          13         15         15         15
Sob-total               1,407        722         842        616        585        271          97         21         20         47          38         23         33          39         23         33          39         23         10
Baling sheds
in-remental capital        17          16         23         28         33         31          28         23         18         12           7          3          1
Recurrent Expenditure
Wages and Sa1ar-ee            450        527        628         663        732        654        390         372        302        211         211        211        211        211         211        211        21'         211        211        2''
Operation tractors -
development only           19          26         34         45         55
Adeintetr-tion                 64         69         74          78         82         72         57          41         41         40         40         40          40         40         40         40          40         40          40         40
Vehicle operation             170        594        213         226        238        164          71         49         56         44         44          44         44         44         44          44         44         44          44         44
Maintenance - roads           -            7          14         22         27         27          26         27         27         6          27          27         27         27         2 227                  27         27          27         27
_ buildinge    -             19         27         41         48         54          58         59         59         59          59         59         59         59          59         59         59          59
Lees Administration and
Wagos aIready being paid (173)   (182)          (192)      (201)      (213)       (211)      (211)      (211)      (211)       (211)      (211)      (211)      (211)      (211)       (211)      (211)      (211)       (211)      (211)       (211)
SBb-total                 530        660         798        874        969         760        391        357        274         169        169        169        169         169        169        169         169        169        1ll         111
Credit
Seasonal Fond                 242        180        213         212        220        194        137          91         47         10          9           3          2
Medium-term Fund              126        201        198         134         78           7       ( 59)      (126)      (156)      (164)      (122)       ( 73)      ( 33)      ( 11)
1mb-total                 368         381        411        346        298         201         78       ( 35)      (109)       (154)      (113)      ( 70)      ( 31)       ( 11)
Interest on Covermsent loans-  -            27          54         84        109        131         145        151        148        140        129         121        116        114         113        113        113         113        113        113         113
TOTAL              2,322      1,806      2,128      1,948       1,994      1,394        739         517        351        214        230         246        288        311         306        315        321         305        233         224
SOURCES
IBtereet received-              -           31          65        101        131         155        172        177        172        161         147        135        129         126        125        125         125        125        125         125        125
Tobacco development and
extension levy                           80         154        258        386         544        686        816        924      1,008      1,064       1 098      1,114      1, 118      1118       1,118      1,118       1,118      1.118      1,118       1,118
Transfer fram (and to)
Government                 2,322      1,699       1,920      1,606      1,499         719        (92)      (450)      (721)       7934)      (963)      (973)      (942)       (921)      (925)      (916)       (910)      (926)      (998)    19007)    (1,118)
TOTAL              2,322      1,810       2,139      1,965      2,016      1,418         766        543        375         235        248        260         301        323        318         327        333        317         245        236         125
Annual Surplus2                 -             4         11         17         22          24         27         26         24          21         18         14          13         12         12          12         12         12          12         12          12
Cumulative Surplus              -             4         15         32         54          78        105        131         155        176        194        208         221        233        245         257        269        281         293        305         317
I/ Monies for interests paid and received are deemed to occur in year following grnt of loan or credit.
2/   Annusl cash eur21ue is interest eariance which will be  seed by T8Z as reserve for bad debts
Augost 7. 1972



ccU -, -tc
4       cc       C       a n  cc 
N|~~~ ~ ~ On 4                                0   4 0              
cc      _cc                      Ic   0         C cc            cc w  
0040.00O          I               'c                   Cccc -    CCO
-l  w          o                        4 -  e          w     ^   
- I ~   ~        c -                  -   On      cccx d °   
W I                                                     cc  cc<    
001  r       0 c.                _     I-sx o   
cc  0d   00           D               .D                       00 _           _
0-.   0          °0    0              a                         3                                   4  0   
0.    °-0        00                                   -~  N  °      N                               C 






ZA'[I3A
INTE-.RATED PARILY FARMING PROJECT
Economic Rate of Re turn- Whole p-oiett
(K ' 0003
1973     1974    1375    19(6    1977    1978    1979    1080    1981        1982    1993    1984    1985    1986    t987    1988    1989    1991        1991       1992     1993
Sales  - Tobacco                                              -       515      936   i,471   2,0,69   2,724   3,u39   9,033   4,,s64    4,897   5,169   5,334   5,406   5,431   5,431   5,431   5,431   5,431    5,431         5,431    5,L31
T Maize                                              -       203     357      539     724     320   1117   1, 27 4 1333    1,470   i,62   3,2    1,5 3,3   1,'333   51,53   1,533 1 3533   1,533            -533      133    15
Coats
Housing                                                  191        35      98      42      21       13      11
Bulidings                                                127       44       99      52      52       42
Vehicle, and tractors                                    20d      101      16i3    1>9      173      72      24      -        _         >      1        -1                       -        7       12      -          7
Water                                                    182      145      128     931      69       18
Roads                                                     70        dl      72      52      ±,
specaili-ad equipment                                    243       47       51      33      67       2d      22      15      14        14      l.       I          1            16      16       16 ±6      -6
Soil c.a.ereation                                         4i       65       27       3
Dispen-aries and schools                                 142
Forestry                                                   6        7        9      10      12       12      10
Contingencies                                            116       52       U1      94     41        18       6       1        1        3        3       7       3        3       2       3        3       2         1
3ub-total                                        1,326       647     700      414    44/      903       75      1.      10         7                       26      31      19       26      31       19        6                  -
Recurrent
Farmers' inputs - sossosal                               317       551     933   1,L24   1,431   1,737    ,0/           2,5    ,344    2,4:2   .,    2,496   2,535   2,505   2,595   2,595   2,595   2,505    2,505        2,505
_ capital                               149       247     ?)7     331      383     403     35D      282     223      11->       7      39        4      -       -        -       -        -        -          -        -
Wages and salaries                                       429      478      543     54-    573       51     3905     22       13,237            164     164     164      164     164     164      164     164       164       164
Operation of irorrs-development only                      18        23     09       30,      43      -       -        -       -        _        _       _       _        _       _        _       _        _
Vehicle operation                                        162      176      i84     186     187      128      56       94      40       3L       34      34      34       34      34       34      34      34        34        34
Administration                                            61        63      63       i4      64      57      44       32      32       3J       3;      30      30       30      30       30      30       30       32        3D
Road iaprevomoet                                          -          6      12      19       21      21      21       21      01        11      21      2        21      21      21       21      21       21       21         21
Ioprovement to boildiogs                                  -        ia       25      35      41      1,4      48     49        48                48      46      4        48      48       48      48      48        -         -
Sub-total                                         1,136   1,562   1,986   2,342   2,753   2,903   2,831   2,934   2,949    2,569   ?,257   2,932   2,8.'u   2,802   2,802   2,802   2,802   2,802    2,754            2,754        -
Previous Farmer Earcioga                                       4i        70     101     130      157     183     203      2±4     219      219      019     219     21±      019     219      219     219      219      219        219       -
Total Coat                                        2,503    2,279   2,095   2,966   3,357   3,280   3,109   3,164   3,193    3,124   3,109    3,069  3,051   3,052   3,039   3,047   3,352   3,039    2,981            2,973        -
Project Net (Coot) Benefit                                 (2,503)  (1,5611 (1,502)   (956)   (564)    355   1,447   2,143   2,774    3,243   3,563   3,794   3,890   3,912   3,925   3,917   3,912   3,925    3,983             3,991    6,964
Aeseet 7, 1972



ZPABiA
INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
Econom,ic Rote of Return - Tf Developm,ent Stops at End of Five-Year
Development Phose
(K' 000)
1973     1971    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981        1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    0989    1990         1991       1992      1993
Sales - Tobacco                            -       515     936   1,471   2,0C9   2,724   3,227   3.633   3.831    3,900   3,900   3,9C0   3,900   3,900   3, 903   3, 9o    3,900   3,900    3,900           3,900    3,900
- Maize                             _        203     357     539      724     920   1,008        1,064   1,103    1,102   1,102   1, 10;   1,102   1,102   1,102   1,102   1,1.-2   1,102    1,102     1,l02    1,102
Total Sales                       -        718   1,293   2,010   2,793   3,64   ,235   4,697   4,934    5,002   5,002   5,002   5,002   5,002   5,002   5,002   5,002   5,002    5,202              5,002    5,002
Capital
Housing                                  191       85      98       42      21
Buildings                                127       44      99       52      52
Vehicles and tractors                   208       121     163      159     172       42      12      _        -        11        3       3        3       3       3        3       3        3        3         -         -
Water                                    132      145     128       99      69       10
Roads                                     70       81      72       52      16
Spacisli..d eq.i{psert                  243        47      51       33      67      14       10                         7        3       3       3        3       3        3       3        3        3         -         -
Soil conservation                         41       65      27        3
Dispensaries and schools                142
Forestry                                   6        7       9       10      12
Contingencies                            116       52      61       44      40       6        2       1        1        2        1       1       1        1                1       1        1        1         -
Sob-total                        1,326       647     708     494      447      72       24      -       -         20        7       7       7        7       7        7       7        7        7
Recurrent
Farmers' inputs - seasonal              317       551     833   1,124   1,431   1,303   1,688   1,746   1,799    1,799   1,7g9   1,799   1,799   1,799   1,799   1,799   1,799   1,799    1,799             1,799
- capital               149      247      297     331     393      233     217      187      22            -       -        -           -        -       -        -       -         -         -
Wages and salaries                       429      478     543      546     573      513     305      292     237      164      164     164      164     164     164      164      164     164       164       164
Operation of tr-ctors-development o-l- 18          23      29       37      43       -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -         -         -
Vehicle operation                       162       176     184      156     1871    123       56      54       44       34       34      34       34      34      34       34      34       34        34        34
Admisi.tration                            61       63       63      64      64       57      44       32      32       30       32      30       30      30       30      30       30      30        30        30
Road improvement                          -         6       12      19      21       21      21       21      21       21       21      21       21      21       21      21       21      21        21        21
Improvement to buildings                  -        18       25      35      41       44      48       48      48       48       48      48       48      48       48      48       48      48        -         -
1su2-Fotal                      1,136    1,562   1,986   2,342   2,753   2,501   2,379   2,380   2,2.3    2,2,6   2,096   2,096   2,906   2,906   2,096   2,096   2,906   2,906    2,048              2,048        -
Previous Farmer Earni.gG                    41       70      101     130     157      157     157      157     157      157      157     157      157     157      157     157      157     197       157       157        -
Total Cost                      2,503    2,279   2,795   2,966   3,357   2,73D   2,560   2,537   2,360    2,273   2,260   2,2626  2,260   2,260   2,260   2,260   2,260   2,260    2,212              2,225
Project Net (Cost) Benefit              (2,503)  (1,561) (1,502)  (956)    (564)   (914)  1,675   2,160   2,572J    2,729   2,742   2,742   2,74.   2,742   2,742   2,743   2,71z   2,742    2,790            2,797    5,002 2
August 7, 1972



ANN2X 19
Page  1
ZAMBIA
INTEG4RATED FAMILY FAR4ING PROJECT
Risk Analysis
1.        The project data have been subjected to a risk analysis allowing
for differing probabilities in:
(a) Zambia's and Rhodesia's status vis-a-vis association with
iiC.  Conditional upon this, different assumptions have been
made on
(i)   tobacco prices and
(ii) numbers of project participants (and therefore of
areas cultivated);
(b)  tobacco yields;
(c)  maize prices;
(d)  maize yields;
(e)  project investment;
(f)  recurrent costs.
2.        On the assumptions made, the expected value of the internal economic
return (IER) is 17.4%. This result is lower than that obtained in the conven-
tional calculation (20%) because the latter was based only on the most likely
assumption regarding Zambia's position in EEC. The risk analysis suggests
there is only a 2% probability of an IER below 10%, and a 70% chance it will
be in the range 15% to 20%. Other results may be read from Annex figure 19.1.
3.        The values and probabilities used in the analysis are given below.
In most cases uniform probability distributions have been used for individual
factors. This has the effect of increasing the probability of lower and
higher values of IER, compared with distributions peaked around the expected
values used in the conventional calculation of I&H.
(a) Status in Ž&C:
Probability in Year
Status (see Annex 14)                  1        2         3 
I    (Zambia AOT; dihodesian          Nil       5%        5P      1 O       1%
tobacco limited to 1971
level)
Ia   (Zambia not AOT;                 60%      50%       20%      10%       1Oh
Rhodesian tobacco at 1971
level)
II   (Zambia AOT; expanded            40%      45%       70%      70%       60%
Rhodesian sales outside
U. K.)
III  (Zambia and Rhodesia AOT)        Nil      Nil        5>      10%       15>



ANN1Lx 19
Page 2
(a) (i)  Tobacco Prices:  All + 5%, with unif'orm. distribution around price
in year (n/kg):
Price in Year
Given Status:                          1         2         3         4         5-On
I                                   -         75        75        '4       73
Ia                                  66        63        60        59       58
II                                  65        67        66        65       63
III                                 -         -         49        49       50
(a) (ii) Project Participants:
Year:
Possible
Ranges            1              2             3             4               5-On
(a) Low      1,600-1,650  2,500-2,750  3,000-4,000  4,000-5,000  5,000-6,000
(b) High    1,650-1,700  2,750-2,850  4,000-5,000  5,000-5,500  6,000-6,500
Probability, of number of participants falling in range, given EEC status:
I              (a)  -               30%           30P           30%            30%
(b)  -              70%            70%           70%           70%
Ia             (a)  50%             60%           60%            70%           80%
(b)  50%            40%            40%           30%           20%p
II             (a)  30%             40g           40%           1o%            40%
(b)  70%            60%            60%           60%           60%
III            (a)  -               _            100%          100%           10051
(b)  -                            Nil           Nil           Nil
Uniform distributions within range.
(b) Tobacco Yield
Years 1-5:      700-850 kg/ha, uniform distribution
6-20:    800-1,050 kg/ha, uniform  distribution



ANNEX 19
Page 3
(c) Maize Prices
YearS 1-5:    K 3.25   K 5.00 per bag (90 kg), uniform distribution
6-20:   K 3.25 - K 3.50 per bag (90 kg), uniform distribution
(d) Maize Yield
Years 1-5:    30-45 bags/ha, uniform distribution
6-20:   40-55 bags/ha, uniform distribution
(e) Project Investment
Cost range of K 4.2 million to K 5.4 million, uniform distribution,
within the following pattern of expenditure:
Year            1      2      3       4      5       6     7      8     9      10
Proportion
Expended (%): 32      15      17     12      11     5      2     2      2     2
(f) Recurrent costs: (per farmer)
Year:               1         2        3         4         5        6
Range (K)        710-990  580-810  510-71C  470-650  460-640  360-500
Uniform probability distribution within range. Costs include previous
farm earnings.






ANNEX 19
FIGURE 19.1
ZAMBIA: INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT:
RISK ANALYSIS
p
1.o
rxA
E                                               -
a                                               /
0 O.4/ 
g  0.2                                           I
HI
0           5           10          15          20          25          30
174%
INTERNAL ECONOMIC; RETURN






ZAMBIA INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
TOBACCO BOARD OF ZAMBIA
MINISTRYOF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
MINISTER
TOBACCO BOARD OF ZAMBIA
MINISTER OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
- CHAIRMAN
PtS MINISTRYOF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
-VICE CHAIRMAN
GENERAL MANAGER
BOARD SECRETARY                             _AGOOUNTA                         T
PACKING PLANT DEPARTNT            PRODUCTION                      AUTION FLOOR DEPART
| RODUCTION MANAG ERl
|[DEMPUTYPRODUCTION MANAGER|
MAPPINGF
PLANNING                      ADMINISTRATION                           ACCOUNTS                     STORES EPARTMENT                BUILDING SUPERV SOR
| MUKONCHI TRAINING              POPOTATRAINING       |    | MANAGER (BURLEYFTOBACCO)                A        (FAMIL FMNG)           MANAGER (TENANT FARMING)
SCHEME         COLLEGE                          ~~~~~~~~~~SCHEMES                      SCHEMES                          SCHES
PROVINCIAL MANAGER                   PFROVINCIAL MANAGER                    PROVINCIAL MANAGER
EASTERN PROVINCE                     SOUTHERN PROVINCE                      CENTRAL PROVINCE
COMMERCIAL GROWERS                    COMMERCIAL GROWERS                    COMMERCIAL GROWERS
TENANT FARMERS                        TENANT FARMERS                        TENANT FARMERS
ASSISTED TENANT SCHEMES               ASSISTED TENANT SCHEMES               ASSISTED TENANT SCHEMES
FAMILY FARMING SCHEMES                FAMILYFARMING SCHEMES                 FAMILY FARMING SCHEMES
WodId -rk- 679J7






ZAMBIA INTEGRATED FAMILY FARMING PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
I PRO.UCTION DEPARTMENT
I
DPRODU.CTION MANAGER
OPUTYPRODUCTION MANAGER
MAPPING ~ ~     ~       ~      ~      I      ACONS                  S~ATORSDEATENTU|L |IN3UILIG UERVISOR|
"PLANNIN                ADMINISTRATION                    ACCOUNTS               STDRG0EVI.
NMANAGER (FAMILYFARMINGI
I   SCHEMES  
PROVINCIAL MANAGER                       PROVINCIAL MANAGER                       PROVINCIAL MANAGER
FASTERN PROVINCE                        SOUTHERN PROVINCE                         CENTRAL PROVINCE
PROVINCIAL
DEVELOPMENTCOMMITTEE          BUILDING SUPERVISOR                      BUILDING SUPERVISOR                      BUILDING SUPERVISOR
ACCOUNTANT                               ACCOUNTANT                               ACCOLINTANT
BOOKKEEPER (21                         8ROKKEEPER (2)                             ROOKKEEPER 121
CLERKS (3)                              CLERKS 13)                                CLERKS (31
STOREKEEPER                             STORLKEEPER                               STOREKEEPER
r                               I    SCHEME MANAGER                     [    SCHEME MANAGER        1SCHEME MANAGER. I.
(LUNDAZI)                           IZEM6A/VUBWEI                                    IGAMELA)
1MECHSNJCAL SUPERVI90R                      MECHANICAL SUPERVISOR                         MECHANICAL SUPERVISOR
I   DISTRICT   I  LAND PLANNER                          LAND PLANNER                                  LAND PLANNER
I DEVEL°PMENT    1- ASSISTANT ACCOUNTANT                  ASSISTANT ACCOUNTANT                          ASSISTANT ACCOUNTANT
I COMMITTEE        8KOOKEEEPER                           BOOKKEEPER                                    BOOKKEEPER
MECHANIC                               MECHANIC                                      MECHANIC
CLERKS (3)                             CLERKS 31                                     CLERKS (31
STOREKEEPEE                            STOREKEEPER                                   STOREKEEPER1
LABOR (51                              LABOR (a)                                     LABOR 18)
PLTSHM                                                                                                  F           H,mE 2  PILOT  SCHEME r- -3                                      WESTERN PROVINCE
|TSCREME 1  |        SECTION 1             SECTION 3                                                   PIP LOT SCHEME 2         SUCTION1       I     PILOT SCHEME 3                 SECTION
; SECTION MANAGER    I                                                  _                                      I SECTION MANAGER "I SECTION MANAGER    I                                 SECTION MANAGER
ASST SECT MANAGER                            ASST SECT MANASERS          E-.                                 A'ST SECT MANASECTION 2SECTMANAGER                                       AIST OSECT MANAGER
IC   CLERS S6)                              S S ECT   ASSSSTANTS         CIS             SECTI  2N         G I SECT ASSTS  )                               ST. ISTANTS I    SECT           ASSISTANTS S9
CLER S 1)        CLERKS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 ~CLERKS Ill                                                                             CLERK'S t1/                 CLERK
MECHAN C                                    MECHANC                                                          MECHANIC                                      MECHANIC                   MECHANIC
L.        …          J                                                                      SECTION3         L                                  IL
1/5 SECTIONS NOT SHOWN BUT IILL BE ALLOCATED AND DEVELOPED UNDER EXISTING
ORGANI7ATION DEPENDENT ON PROGRESS
SETIN   -SCIN






:>> '                                                          :
O    \ 7;    /   tz    _  E  j  0              7              t   D       j~0 
> 2  it  f ..lo-
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
it-                  -At
Wo  <         /          N                       
II



