RESTRICTED
FILE        CO   Y IReport No. P-789
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affilioted organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GAMBIA
FOR A
PORT PROJECT
March 26, 1970



TNT7RNATTONAL D EVTOPLTQNT ASSOCIATION
REPORT ANfD REC0IHZONDATION OF THE PRESIDINT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE GOVEDNIDETNT OF TEIE GAMBIA
FOR A PORT PROJECT
1.     I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a pro-
posed credit, in an amount in various currencies equivalent to U.S.
$2.1 million to the Government of The Gambia, to assist in financing
a port project.
PART I - HISTORICAT
2.     The Government of The Gambia approached IDA in 1968 to assist
in the financing of a port project. A feasibility study and pre-
liminary design for development of the port of Bathurst were carried-
out by British consultants and financed with assistance from the U.K.
Ministry of Overseas Development. These studies, which started in
1968, form the-basis for the proposed project which was appraised in
September 1969.
3.    INegotiations of the proposed credit were completed on March 13,
1970, with a delegation of the Government led by Mr. S.M. Dibba,
Minister of Finance.
4.     The-proposed credit would be the first Bank Group operation in
The Gambia.
5.     No further proposals for IDA credits are expected to be presented
to the Executive Directors in the present fiscal year. A project-in
agriculture, in particular for rice development is being prepared.
PA1RT II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
6.     Borrower:         The Gambia
Amount:           In various currencies eouivalent to $2.1
million.
Purpose:          Rehabilitation of an exdsting wharf, con-
struction of a new wharf, provision of
supporting facilities, cargo handling
equipment and consulting services.
Amortization:     In 50 years including a 10 year period of
grace through semi-annual installments of
1/2 of 1% from August 1, 1980 through February 1,



-2-
1990 and of ll/2% from Augustl, 1990 through
Februaryl, 2020.
Service charge:   3/h of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7,.    A report entitled "Appraisal of Bathurst Port Project" (PTR-40a)
is attached.
8.     The Gambia's economy is highly dependent on foreign trade; in
recent years, the combined value of exports and imports averaged about
80% of estimated GDP. The Port of Bathurst, which handles all of the
country's imports and almost two-thirds of its exports, plays therefore
a key role in the countryts economry. Due to the deterioration of an
old wooden pier, there is now virtually only one wharf available
which itself is in need of rehabilitation. The existing facilities
are insufficient to handle the increasing traffic and port congestion
has risen sharply in recent years. A marked rise in ship delays would
occur in 1972 without additional-capacity and congestion would become
extremely severe after 197641977.
9.     The proposed project consists in rehabilitating the existing
wharf, thus extending its useful life to at least 25 years, constructing
a deep -water berth and supporting faci'ities in order to ensure suffi-
cient port capacity througlhout the 197O's. In addition the project
provides for the procurement of a small dredger and other port equipment.
On shore improvements will also be introduced under the project, new
handling equipment will be procured, transit sheds constructed, and
other facilities provided for. A port operations adviser will be
employed and a personnel training program will be organized; as a
result working methods will improve leading towTards increased produc-
tivity of port labor.
10.    Of the $2.4 million dollars total cost of the project, $2.1
million (37%) would be financed out of the proposed IDA credit, repre-
senting the foreign exchange cost of the project. Contracts for
construction and equipment supply-will, be awiarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
11.    Economic benefits i-ill consist mainly of a reducticn in ship
turn around time and reduced cargo handling costs. The major benefit
will be the avoidance of ship delays which are expected to increase
rapidly in the near future if no action is taken. On this basis the
project is expected to yield a first year economic return of 13% for
1973/74, the opening year of the new facilities.
12.    The Ministry of Works and Communications will be responsible
for execution of the project. The operational and organizational
reforms which will be introduced within the framework   of the project
are expected to improve the efficiency and to ensure the financial
viability of the port. The most important one will be the creation



- 3 -
by mid-1972 of a port authorit2 whi,ch Taill assume a debt to the
Government equivalent to the total IDia credit at an interest rate of
7.g for a period of 20 years.
PAORT IV - LEGAL TN:3TRU;JEHT3 AI'D AUTHORITY
13.    The draft Development Credit Agreement between The Gaambia and
the Association, the recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
and the draft Resolution approving the proposed Credit are being distributed
to the Fxecutive Directors separately.
1.    The draft Development Credit Agreement follows the general
pattern for projects of this kind. Section 4.02 (a) provides that the
Borrower shall establish, not later than July 1, 1972, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, a
port authority to be responsible for the operation, maintenance and
development of facilities at the Port of Bathurst. The law establishing
such port authority1 and the regulations affecting major aspects of
its operations Lill hava to be satisfactory to the Borrarer and the
Association.
PAR.T V - TUi2 ECOIro>:ly
15.    A report on "The Economy of The Gambiall (AW-12a) was circulated
to the Executive Directors on December 3, 1969.
16.    This report concluded that overall performance had been satis-
factory and that on this ground and on that of poverty The Gambia was
eligible for IDA financing. These conclusions remain valid.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE UtITH ARTICLES OF AGREENvNT
17.    I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of IDA.
PART VII - RECOTiMDOATIO'iS
18.    I recmmmend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert 3'. :lcNamara
Attacihment                                             President
T:ashington, D.C.
harch 26, 1970



