CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 187 GM
(Amendment)
Agreement
Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Bathurst Port Project)
DATED MAY 26, 1970
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 1, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 187 GM
(Amendment)
Agreement
Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Bathurst Port Project)
DATED MAY 26, 1970
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 1, 1974


﻿AMEMDING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, Dated April 1, 1974, between THE REPUBLIC OF THE
GAMBIA      (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) By a development credit agreement (hereinafter called the
1970 Agreement) dated May 26, 1970 between the Borrower and the Association,
the Association made a development credit available to the Borrower of an amount
in various currencies equivalent to two million one hundred thousand dollars
($2,100,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the 1970 Agreement:
(B)   The Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional
financing for the carrying out of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the 1970
Agreement;
(C)   The Association has agreed to provide the said financing upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The 1970 Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
(a)   Section 2.01 is amended to read:
"The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million five hundred
thousand dollars ($4,500,000)."
(b)   The name "Bathurst Port Authority" occuring in Sections 1.02,
4.01(a), 4.02(b) and (c), 4.03, 4.04(b) and (c), 4.07, 4.08(a) and (b), 5.03, 6.02
and Schedules 2 and 4 is amended to read "Gambia Ports Authority."
(c)   The name "Port of Bathurst" in Sections 4.02(a) and 4.05 is amended
to read "Port of Banjul."
(d)   "Bathurst" in Section 7.03 is amended to read "Banjul."
(e)   Section 4.04(a) is amended to read:
"(a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
from time to time take, or shall enable or cause the Gambia Ports Authority
to take, as the case may be, all such measures satisfactory to the Association


﻿4
(including, but without limitation, adjustments of rates for services at the
Port of Banjul, based on the cost of such services), as shall be required to
enable the Borrower or the Gambia Poxts Authority, as the case may be:
(i)         to earn an annual rate of return of not less than five and one-half
per cent (5-1/2%) during the fiscal year 1976-1977 and of not
less than six and one-half per cent (6-1/2%) during the fiscal
year 1978-1979 and thereafter on the net fixed assets in
operation of the Borrower relating to services at the Port of
Banjul, or of the Gambia Ports Authority, as the case may be;
and
(ii)        to maintain at all times funds, accruing from the operation of
the assets of the Borrower relating to services at the Port of
Banjul or internally generated by the Gambia Ports Authority,
as the case may be, sufficient to meet amortization of debt and
interest thereon, to provide adequate working capital, to
establish and maintain reserves adequate to meet contingencies
and to finance a reasonable proportion of the cost of capital
expenditures, including replacement of assets."
(f)   Section 7.01 is amended to read:
"The Closing Date shall be'December 31, 1975, or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association."
(g)   The table in Schedule I is amended to read:
"Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed in
Category                                            Dollar Equivalent
I.   Civil Works                                             2,640,000
II.  Dredger and equipment                                     536,000
III.  Advisory Services                                         47,000
IV.  Training                                                   22,000
V.   Engineering Services                                      365,000
VI.  Unallocated                                               890,000
TOTAL                   4,500,000


﻿5
(h)        Schedule 4, paragraph III is amended to read:
"III.      Finances
1.   As of the start of operations of the Gambia Ports
Authority, the Borrower's capital contribution therein
shall be composed of such assets of the Marine Department
of the Ministry of Works and Communications of the
Borrower relating to the Port of Banjul as shall (i) have
been included in an inventory, to be prepared by the said
Marine Department prior to the start of execution of the
Project, (ii) have been valued at estimated replacement
value less accumulated depreciation, and (iii) are in
existence as of the start of operations of the Gambia Ports
Authority.
2.    The Gambia Ports Authority shall assume a debt towards
the Borrower, in an amount equal to the amount of the
Credit disbursed or reimbursed by the Association to the
Borrower and the amount of all contributions of the
Borrower towards the cost of the Project. The total
aggregate amount of such debt shall be equal to the sum
of the total aggregate amount of the Credit disbursed or
reimbursed by the Association to the Borrower and all
contributions of the Borrower towards the cost of the
Project as reasonably determined by the Borrower.
3.    The debt described in the preceding paragraph shall bear
interest at the rate of seven per cent (7%) per annum on
the outstanding balance thereof and shall be repaid by
the Gambia Ports Authority in forty (40) semi-annual
installments payable on each January 1 and July I
commencing    on   July 1,   1975  and   ending   on
January 1, 1995."
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Association despatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance
of evidence, supported by an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association
of counsel acceptable to the Association, showing:


﻿6
(a)   that the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action; and
(b)   that the 1970 Agreement as amended by this Agreement will constitute
a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.02. If this Agreement shall not come into force and effect by
June 3, 1974 this Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall
terminate, unless the Association, after consideration of the reasons for the delay,
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
By /s / Alhaji The Hon. Ibrahim Garba-Jahumpa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


