Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4305 
Operation Name 
Disaster Risk Management DPL w/Catastrophe Deferred Draw 
Down Option 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General Water/Sanitation/Disaster Prevention (100%) 
Project ID 
P113084 
Borrower(s) 
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT 
Date PID Prepared 
October 2, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 6, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 18, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Natural hazards are a challenge to sustainable development in Colombia.
 
A
natural disaster is a 
consequence of people and assets insufficiently adapted to the extremes of the environment they are 
located in. The risk of natural disasters can be expressed as the probability of a natural hazard 
affecting a vulnerable community. In the last 30 years, Colombia has suffered from six major 
earthquakes, four volcanic eruptions, annual major landslides and extensive flooding. According to 
the Global Hotspots Analysis, 85 percent of its population and 87 percent of its assets is located in 
areas exposed to two or more natural hazards.
1
Colombia’s urban population grows by an average of 
3% a year, making it one of the fastest growing urban populations in the World. The increasing 
concentration of people and assets in areas exposed to natural hazards, when not mitigated, mean 
that disaster risk is on the rise. 
 
Improving the country’s disaster risk management has been a central theme of the 
Government of Colombia’s overall policy program since 2002 and thus has also been a key 
pillar of the Bank support strategy. 
On this basis, in 2004, the Government requested the 
preparation of an Adjustable Program Loan (APL) series to support implementation of its disaster 
risk management policies, particularly with regard to five key areas considered priority. This series 
was included as part of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Progress Report discussed by the 
Board 
in September 2005, which extended the CAS period through the end of the Bank’s FY07. This 
Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option (CAT DDO) loan is part of the Bank’s strategy to flexibly 
and quickly respond to the borrower’s need as expressed in the recently approved Country 
Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2008-2011.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed operation is for US$150 million and would be the third loan for disaster risk 
management, continuing support to the same broad themes and the development objectives as 
those financed under the two APLs, and replacing the contingent part of the APL1.
 This 
program has been designed to support Colombia’s National Development Strategy 2006-2010 
1
Natural Disaster Hotspots, A Global Risk Analysis, Disas
ter Risk Management Series,” World Bank, 2005. 
Page  2
covering four policy areas (See Table 1). The preparation of the loan reflects the advances and 
outcomes achieved so far under the APL1 and APL2. The Government has requested to replace the 
contingent part of APL1 with the CAT DDO because the CAT DDO is faster disbursing and a 
cheaper solution. 
The development objectives are: 
 
(
a) to improve the Government’s capacity to manage risk resulting from adverse natural events; 
and 
 
(b) to reduce the fiscal vulnerability of the state to natural disasters. 
 
The expected outcomes would include: 
·
Flood victims per capita in flood prone areas decrease.  
·
Number of volcanic eruption related deaths per capita in high risk zones will decrease. 
·
Number of people at risk to adverse natural events in public buildings reduced by 50%. 
·
100% of territorial development plans integrate appropriate hazard risk management. 
·
Reduction in the contingent liability of the state to adverse natural events. 
·
National Government has a financial strategy in place to efficiently respond to a 1/500 year 
event.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Up to US$150M will be made available to the Government immediately following a request for 
disbursement, when a natural disaster has occured resulting in a declaration of a state of emergency 
by the President of Colombia, in accordance with Law No. 919 of 1989
 
Specific policies supported by this DPL are described below. 
 
Disaster Risk Management DPL: Areas of support 
Government of Colombia’s Prior Actions
 
I. Improve government’s capacity to manage risk resulting from adverse natural events 
Policy Area 
Prior Actions 
Actions Taken 
Improve risk identification and 
monitoring, and increase  awareness 
Ministerial Decree 0643 of June 02, 2004 which 
defines the monitoring of environmental 
indicators, including disaster risk indicators, as a 
key task of the MAVDT-MA.  
Adopted. 
CONPES 3318 of November 2004, which 
identifies a 10 year program to reduce 
vulnerability to natural disasters.  
Adopted. 
Increase prevention and mitigation 
measures for risk reduction  
CONPES 3501, 2007, which outlines policy 
guidelines for disaster risk reduction in the area of 
the Galeras Volcano  
Adopted 
Incorporation of Disaster Risk Management 
Vision Colombia 2019. 
Adopted. 
 
Incorporation of Disaster Risk Management in the 
2006
–2010 National Development Plan (PND). 
Adopted. 
Strengthen policies and institutions of 
the national system for disaster 
prevention and attention 
CONPES 3305, 2004. Guidelines for optimizing 
policies for urban development 
Adopted. 
II. Reduce the fiscal vulnerability of the state to natural disasters 
Policy Area 
Prior Actions 
Actions Taken 
Page  3
Disaster Risk Management DPL: Areas of support 
Government of Colombia’s Prior Actions
 
I. Improve government’s capacity to manage risk resulting from adverse natural events 
P
olicy Area 
Prior Actions 
Actions Taken 
Reduce the fiscal vulnerability of the 
state to natural events 
CONPES 3398, 2005. Nation
al Government’s 
guaranty to Bogotá for an investment program to 
reduce its fiscal vulnerability against the 
occurrence of a natural disaster. 
Adopted. 
Disasters have historically been an important cause of poverty.
 The proposed operation supports 
policies that seek to alleviate poverty by strengthening disaster risk management in Colombia. In 
case of a declaration of emergency, the activation of the CAT DDO will avoid the need of deviating 
funds originally designated to development projects. This will guarantee the continuity of 
development plans, mainly targeted at alleviating the needs of the poor. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The project is expected to have significant positive impacts on the environment and natural 
resources through its engagement with the disaster risk management program.
 Good disaster 
risk management integrates sound environmental management practices such as those related to river 
basin management and slope stabilization. This includes public awareness campaigns aimed at 
educating the general public in related aspects of environmental management.
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
6. Contact point 
Name: Niels B. Holm-Nielsen 
Title: Disaster Risk Management Specialist 
Tel.: 1-202-458-1709 
Fax: 1-202-522 0262 
Em: nholmnielsen@worldbank.org 
 
