Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4360 
Project Name 
Disaster Risk Management DPL with a CAT DDO 
Region 
LCR 
Sector 
General Water/Sanitation/Disaster Prevention (100%) 
Project ID 
P113084 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Colombia 
Implementing Agency 
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
 (Ministry of Finance and 
Public Credit - MHCP)
,
Departamento Nacional de Planeación 
(National Planning Department 
–
DNP). 
Date PID Prepared 
October 17, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 4, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 16, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Natural hazards are a challenge to sustainable development in Colombia.
 
The risk of 
natural disasters can be expressed as the probability of a natural hazard affecting a vulnerable 
community. In the last 30 years, Colombia has suffered from six major earthquakes, four 
volcanic eruptions, annual major landslides and extensive flooding. According to the Global 
Hotspots Analysis, 85 percent of its population and 87 percent of its assets is located in areas 
exposed to two or more natural hazards.
1
Colombia’s urban population grows by an average of 
3% a year, making it one of the fastest growing urban populations in the World. The increasing 
concentration of people and assets in areas exposed to natural hazards, when not mitigated, mean 
that disaster risk is on the rise. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The proposed operation is for US$150 million and would be the third loan for disaster risk 
management, continuing support to the same broad themes and the development objectives 
as those financed under the two APLs, and replacing the contingent part of the APL 1.
 This 
program has been designed to support Colombia’s National Development Strategy 2006-2010 
covering four policy areas. The preparation of the loan reflects the advances and outcomes 
achieved so far under the APL1 and APL2.  
 
The development objective of the operation is to 
strengthen the Government’s program for 
reducing risks resulting from adverse natural events. 
This objective will be achieved by 
1
Natural Disaster Hotspots, A Global Risk Analysis, Disaster Risk Management Series,” World Bank, 2005. 
Page  2
supporting the policy area of disaster risk management with its four areas of action for 
implementation as illustrated below.  
 
Table 1: Policy Area with associated Government actions Covered by the Disaster Risk Management DPL 
with a CAT DDO 
Policy Area: Disaster Risk Management
 
Government 
areas of action 
Improve risk 
identification and 
monitoring, and 
increase awareness 
of risk 
Increase prevention 
and mitigation 
measures for risk 
reduction 
Strengthen 
National System 
for Disaster 
Management and 
Prevention 
Reduce the fiscal 
vulnerability of the state 
to natural disasters 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Improving the country’s disaster risk management has been a central theme of the 
Government of Colombia’s overall policy program since 2002 and thus has also been a key 
pillar of the Bank support strategy. 
On this basis, in 2004, the Government requested the 
preparation of an Adjustable Program Loan (APL) series to support implementation of its 
disaster risk management policies, particularly with regard to five key areas considered priority. 
This series was included as part of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Progress Report 
discussed by the Board in September 2005, which extended the CAS period through the end of 
the Bank’s FY07. This Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option (CAT DDO) loan is part of the 
Bank’s strategy to flexibly and quickly respond to the borrower’s need as expressed in the 
recently approved Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2008-2011.  
 
4. Financing 
 
Amount: US$150 million from IBRD. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Finance will request disbursement of the CAT DDO upon the occurrence of a 
natural disaster and the declaration by the President of a National Level disaster. The Bank and 
the National Planning Department will monitor progress on implementation of Colombia’s 
disaster risk management framework. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed operation supports an institutional effort widely perceived necessary and which the 
Government is already actively implementing, in part with support from the Bank through two 
previous lending operations. This CAT DDO will replace an existing contingent line of credit 
included as a component in the Disaster Vulnerability Reduction APL 1 (P082429).  
Benefits include: 
Page  3
·
The National System for Disaster Management and Prevention will continue to address the 
needs of, on average, 80 percent of people in disaster affected areas that request support.  
·
Expand the number of municipalities that have disaster risk management plans. On October 
1, 2008, 10 municipalities have disaster risk management plans. 
·
There will be a reduction in the number of people living in the high hazard zone of the 
Galeras volcano; on October 1 2008, 7,935 people lived in the high hazard zone. 
·
The Government will have defined a framework for contingent financing.  On October 25, 
2008, the Government passed a policy document (CONPES 3545) for such a framework. 
 
Some risks directly related to this operation include: 
·
Implementation of the policy reform program may be hampered by lack of coordination 
among agencies. Over the last four years, however, coordination has improved and 
experience under the existing APLs demonstrates that multi-agency cooperation has 
reached satisfactory levels. In the context of APL 1 and APL 2, the Bank is working with 
all involved agencies to improve coordination further. Thus this risk is perceived to be 
moderate.  
·
The procedures for disbursement could prove difficult to  implement rapidly. The Bank 
will continue to work closely with the Government to ensure arrangements are in place 
for prompt disbursement. This risk is perceived to be low. 
The possibility of an economic downturn 
–
e.g., from a decline in exports to main trading 
partners – could make it more difficult for the Government to devote resources to disaster risk 
reduction and hence slow improvement of the Government’s disaster risk reduction capacity. 
This risk is perceived to be moderate. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Disasters have historically been an important cause of poverty.
 The proposed operation 
supports policies that seek to alleviate poverty by strengthening disaster risk management in 
Colombia. In case of a declaration of emergency, the activation of the CAT DDO will diminish 
the risk of having to divert funds originally designated to development projects. This will 
improve the continuity of development plans, mainly targeted at alleviating the needs of the 
poor. 
 
The project is expected to have significant positive impacts on the environment and natural 
resources through its engagement with the disaster risk management program.
 Good 
disaster risk management integrates sound environmental management practices such as those 
related to river basin management and slope stabilization. This includes public awareness 
campaigns aimed at educating the general public in related aspects of environmental 
management. 
 
8. Contact point 
Page  4
Name: Niels B. Holm-Nielsen 
Title: Disaster Risk Management Specialist 
Tel.: 1-202-458-1709 
Fax: 1-202-522 0262 
Em: nholmnielsen@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
