                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR2275



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-76180)

                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 150 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                       GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA

                                   FOR A

   DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN WITH A

          CATASTROPHIC RISK DEFERRED DRAWDOWN OPTION

                                July 30, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Mexico and Colombia Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective June 6, 2012)

                      Currency Unit = Colombian Peso
                         US$ 1.00 = 1791.975 COP

                               FISCAL YEAR

                          January 1 – December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




APL       Adaptable Program Loan
CAT DDO   Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DPL       Development Policy Loan
DRM       Disaster Risk Management
NDP       National Development Plan
PDO       Project Development Objective
PNPAD     National Plan for Disaster Management and Prevention
PREM      Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
UNGRD     National Unit for Disaster Risk Management




                      Vice President:    Hasan A. Tuluy
                    Country Director:    Gloria M. Grandolini
                     Sector Manager:     Anna Wellenstein
                   Task Team Leader:     Niels B. Holm-Nielsen
                   ICR Team Leader:      Paula Restrepo
                                                  CONTENTS




 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 6
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 9
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 17
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 23
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 23
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 25
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 26
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 27
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 28
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 29
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 30
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 31
Annex 6. Institutional Arrangement for project implementation.................................. 32
Annex 7. Impact of La Niña 2010-2011 on the Colombian economy………………..33
Annex 8. Key outcome indicators supporting information …………………………...34
Annex 9. List of supporting documents……………………….……………………...35
MAP




                                                           1
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                              Disaster Risk
                                                                              Management DPL
Country:                Colombia                    Program Name:
                                                                              w/Catastrophe Deferred
                                                                              Draw Down Option
Program ID:             P113084                     L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-76180
ICR Date:               07/31/2012                  ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                              THE REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                         Borrower:
                                                                              COLOMBIA
Original Total
                        USD 150.00M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 150.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 150.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None

B. Key Dates
                                                                                    Revised / Actual
     Process              Date                Process              Original Date
                                                                                        Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/09/2008        Effectiveness:             06/25/2009         06/25/2009
Appraisal:             11/06/2008        Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/18/2008        Mid-term Review:
                                         Closing:                   01/31/2012         01/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                   Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                             Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                             Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                            Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                             Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                    2
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                               None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                  None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General industry and trade sector                                     50                   50
General transportation sector                                         20                   20
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 30                   30


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                           100               100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Hasan A. Tuluy                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Gloria M. Grandolini                 Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:            Anna Wellenstein                     Guang Zhe Chen
Program Team Leader:       Niels B. Holm-Nielsen                Niels B. Holm-Nielsen
ICR Team Leader:           Paula Restrepo Cadavid
ICR Primary Author:        Paula Restrepo Cadavid

F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To strengthen the Government's program for reducing risks resulting from adverse
natural events.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)




                                                  3
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally           Actual Value
                                             Values (from       Revised            Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target            Completion or
                                              documents)        Values            Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Expand the coverage of hazard monitoring network
                                                                               The target was met.
                   18 seismic stations, 95
                                                                               35 seismic stations,
Value              volcanic monitoring      Expansion of
                                                                               303 volcanic
(quantitative or   stations and 249         hazard monitoring
                                                                               monitoring stations
Qualitative)       automatic hydro-         network.
                                                                               and 270 automatic
                   meteorological stations.
                                                                               hydro-meteorological
                                                                               stations.
Date achieved      07/31/2008              12/31/2008                          12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Continue to address the needs of, on average, 80% of people in disaster affected
Indicator 2 :
                   areas that request support.
                                            Continue to address              The target was met.
                   The needs of 80% of
                                            the needs of, on
Value              people in disaster
                                            average, 80% of                  More than 97% of
(quantitative or   affected areas that
                                            people in disaster               people in affected
Qualitative)       request support are
                                            affected areas that              areas supported upon
                   addressed.
                                            request support.                 request.
Date achieved      07/31/2008               12/31/2008                       12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Number of municipalities that have action plans for inclusion of risk reduction in
Indicator 3 :
                   territorial development plans.
                                            Expand the number                 The target was met.
Value              10 municipalities had of municipalities
(quantitative or   disaster risk            that have disaster                388 municipalities
Qualitative)       management plans.        risk management                   have disaster risk
                                            plans.                            management plans
Date achieved      10/01/2008               12/31/2008                        12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Relocation of people living in the disaster impact zone of the Galeras Volcano.
                                                                                The target was met.
                                            Reduction in the
                   0% resettled people that                                     7.7 % resettled
Value                                       number of people
                   used to live in the high                                     people that used to
(quantitative or                            living in the high
                   hazard zone of the                                           live in the high
Qualitative)                                hazard zone of the
                   Galeras Volcano.                                             hazard zone of the
                                            Galeras volcano.
                                                                                Galeras Volcano.

                                                 4
Date achieved      10/01/2008               12/31/2008                    12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      The Government will have a defined Framework for contingent financing.
                   On October 24, 2008,                                   The target was met.
                                           The Government
                   the Government passed
Value                                      will have defined a
                   a policy document                                      The Government has
(quantitative or                           framework for
                   (CONPES 3545)                                          a defined a
Qualitative)                               contingent
                   providing the basis for                                framework for
                                           financing.
                   such a framework.                                      contingent financing.
Date achieved      10/24/2008              12/31/2008                     10/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                            Formally
                                            Values (from                      Achieved at
      Indicator        Baseline Value                        Revised
                                             approval                        Completion or
                                                          Target Values
                                            documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :      No Intermediate Outcome Indicators
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                             DO                          IP             Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1      02/23/2009          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  0.00
  2      07/22/2009          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  0.00
  3      01/21/2010          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  0.00
  4      07/14/2010          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  0.00
  5      08/08/2011          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               150.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


                                                5
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Macroeconomic policy framework at appraisal

1. From 2002 to 2007 Colombian economic growth accelerated from 2.5 percent to 6.9
   percent and private investments rose from 9.9 percent of GDP in 2002 to over 16
   percent in 2007. In the same period of time inflation dropped from 7.0 percent to 5.5
   percent and the unemployment rate dropped from over 17 percent to 12 percent. This
   positive outcome was due to higher world growth, lower costs of international credit and a
   rise of Colombia’s primary exports; but also to the improved security situation and the stable
   macroeconomic policies applied by its Government in the preceding years.
2. In 2008 the Colombian economy decelerated sharply due to the Global Financial Crisis.
   The economy grew around 3.5 percent and was expected to slow even further for 2009. The
   National Association of Industry survey indicated that total industrial production dropped
   0.6 percent in the January-August 2008 period and total retail sales increased only by 0.1
   percent when compared to the same period in 2007. Furthermore, the fiscal position for 2009
   was projected to worsen, with a possible increase of the non-financial public sector deficit.
3. At appraisal Colombia’s macroeconomic policy framework was appropriate and the
   Government had started taking necessary steps to mitigate the negative effects of the
   Global Financial Crisis. Since mid 2006 the Government had substantially tightened its
   monetary policy in response to possible overheating of economic growth. The Colombian
   authorities had a sound fiscal and monetary policy in place, with an inflation targeting
   mechanism established and with a medium term fiscal framework targeting a declining
   public debt to GDP ratio. Prior to appraisal the Central Bank kept interest rates on hold
   waiting further anchoring of inflationary expectations prior to considering a loosening of the
   policy rate. To reduce external risks, the Government reduced the foreign currency share of
   its public debt and the overall external debt (both public and private sector) was about 23
   percent of GDP.
Disaster Risk Management in Colombia
4. Over the years, natural disasters in Colombia have absorbed a growing share of the
   national budget and pose a serious threat to fiscal sustainability. The State has seen its
   responsibilities increase with each disaster setting precedents for reconstruction and
   recovery for the next event. In addition, beyond disasters impact on livelihoods,
   infrastructure and provision of essential services, disasters have an increased fiscal and
   economic impact. For example, the 1999 earthquake in the coffee belt affected major sectors
   of the economy and seriously diminished growth. The drop in coffee exports led to a
   reduction of fiscal revenues at a time when greater public investment was required to cover
   reconstruction. With the number and magnitude of disasters on the rise, and related social
   and economic costs with them, the State has placed a high priority on the establishment of a
   coherent strategy to manage risks.
5. Colombia is prone to a number of natural disasters that represent a serious challenge
   for its sustainable development. Annually Colombia suffers more than 600 natural
   disasters, having the highest rate of recurrent natural disasters in Latin America.
   Additionally, in the past three decades Colombia has suffered from six major earthquakes,
   four volcanic eruptions, major landslides, and extensive flooding. This vulnerability is
   further aggravated by continued population growth and a subsequent ever increasing

                                               6
    concentration of settlements. Furthermore, recent trends in global climate change linked to
    increased climatic variability will likely exacerbate the country's exposure to floods, erosion,
    landslides, and drought.
6. Recognizing the importance of dealing with disasters before they happen, Colombia
   has for the past two decades institutionalized a system for comprehensive disaster risk
   management. The Government’s commitment to institutionalize disaster risk dates back to
   1989 when, in the aftermath of the Popayan earthquake, it established the National System
   for Disaster Management and Prevention. The increasing awareness of the importance of
   establishing a comprehensive disaster risk management strategy is reflected in the inclusion
   of this subject in the 2002-2006 and 2006-2010 National Development Plans NDP. The
   2002-2010 NDP included the reduction of fiscal vulnerability due to natural disasters and
   the 2006-2010 NDP outlined a strategy with four specific areas of action to improve the
   effectiveness of reducing risk associated with adverse natural events. These action outlined
   in the 2006-2010 plan were: (i) to improve risk identification and monitoring and augment
   awareness, (ii) to increase measures for risk reduction (prevention and mitigation), (iii) to
   strengthen policies and institutions of the Nation System for Disaster Management and
   Prevention, and (iv) to reduce the fiscal vulnerability of the state to natural events.
7. Furthermore, the Government’s long-term vision and development strategy identifies
   disaster risk management as a key for achieving a more sustainable and equitable
   development. The National Planning Department (DNP) Vision Colombia 2019 policy-
   planning document included policy areas considered essential to achieve an economy that
   guaranteed greater levels of well-being. This policy document included, among others;
   strengthening of actions in disaster risk prevention and mitigation, reducing the fiscal
   vulnerability of the Colombian Government to natural hazards and improving
   decentralization and strengthening land-use planning.
Rationale for Bank’s assistance
8. Improving Colombia’s disaster risk management framework has been a key pillar of
   the Bank’s support strategy and a central theme of the Government’s policy program.
   In 2005, the Bank approved a three phase Adaptable Program Loan (APL) series to support
   the implementation of the Government’s disaster risk management policies. The first phase
   APL was approved by the Board on May 10, 2005 and aimed to strengthen the capability of
   the national disaster risk management system to support comprehensive disaster risk
   reduction. The latter included, among its lending components, the development of a risk
   financing strategy (Subcomponent E.1) and a contingent loan facility to guarantee the
   immediate availability of resources in case of national disaster (Subcomponent E.2).
9. In 2008 the Bank introduced a new contingent credit line, the Development Policy
   Loan with a Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option (CAT DDO) that served to
   provide immediate liquidity to countries in the aftermath of a natural disaster. In
   September of that year the Bank approved the first DPL with a CAT DDO to the
   Government of Costa Rica. Following the introduction of the new contingent credit line by
   the Bank, the Government of Colombia requested a replacement of the contingent loan,
   under subcomponent E.2 of the first APL, for a DPL with a CAT DDO since the lending
   conditions for disbursement of the latter served development purposes significantly better.
   While both the contingent credit line of the first APL and the CAT DDO disbursed funds
   upon the occurrence of a natural disaster resulting in the declaration of a national state of
   disaster, disbursement of the contingent credit line (first APL) would require the
   Government to submit an initial recovery plan with related budget appropriations and
   proposed use of funds document, as well as a statement of expenses from a positive list of

                                                7
       imports. This would delay disbursements significantly1 and reduce the Government’s ability
       to avoid unrecoverable economic and human losses in the immediate aftermath of a
       catastrophic event. In addition, unlike the contingent loan facility, the Bank has designed the
       DPL with a CAT DDO to be renewable for up to 15 years 2 , providing a long-term
       contribution to the country’s catastrophe risk financing strategy. Finally, the DPL with a
       CAT DDO does not require the Government to continue to pay an annual commitment fee
       and was deemed to be more cost effective than the contingent credit line under APL1.
 10. In December 2008 the Bank’s Board of Executive Directors approved the Disaster Risk
     Management Development Policy Operation with a Catastrophic Deferred Drawdown
     Option (CAT DDO) and, in May 2009, the contingent credit line of the APL1 was
     cancelled through project restructuring. The DPL with a CAT DDO for the Government
     of Colombia was declared effective in June 2009. Aligning with the Government’s
     development of the disaster risk management agenda, the above mentioned DPL had as prior
     action the inclusion of a disaster risk reduction and management strategy in the 2006-2010
     National Development Plan.

1.2 Original Program Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
 11. The objective of the proposed DPL with a CAT-DDO option is to strengthen the
     Government’s program for reducing risk resulting from adverse natural events. Five
     key outcome indicators were drawn from a larger constellation of indicators that the
     Government had established for itself to guide future implementation and strengthening of
     its program, these indicators were3 :
           a. The National System for Disaster Management and Prevention will continue to
              address the needs of, on average at least 80 percent of people in disaster affected
              areas that request support.
           b. Expand the coverage of hazard monitoring network from 18 seismic stations, 95
              volcanic monitoring stations and 249 hydro-meteorological stations functioning by
              July 1, 20084.
           c. Expand the number of municipalities that have disaster risk management plans. On
              October 1, 2008, 10 municipalities have disaster risk management plans.
           d. There will be a reduction in the number of people living in the high hazard zone of
              the Galeras volcano; on October 1, 2008, 7,935 people lived in the high hazard zone5.
           e. The Government will have defined a framework for contingent financing. On
              October 24, 2008, the Government passed a policy document (CONPES 3545)
              providing the basis for such a framework.




1
  A practice drill made in November 2008 suggested that disbursements under the contingent credit line of the first APL would require
up to five weeks while the CAT DDO was designed to disburse between 24 and 48 hours after conditions were met.
2
  As discussed further on (Section 2.2), although initially the DPL with a CAT DDO loan was designed to allow a revolving feature
that would permit the drawdown period to be renewed up to four times, the Government’s legal framework limited this option and led
to the preparation of a new operation.
3
  The use of indicators without specific targets in this operation reflects state of art thinking at the time. It was considered that using
specific targets could be seen as a hidden conditionality for disbursement of funds.
4
  Although this key outcome indicator was not included in the PAD, it was included in the Operational Manual and monitored during
the project’s implementation.
5
  An update of the information by the Government after appraisal suggested that the initial number of people living in the high hazard
zone was 5,737. The 7,935 number presented in the PAD was an estimate from the available information at the moment; the new
estimate came from crossing the CENSUS and an available GIS system of the Galeras vicinity.

                                                                    8
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification
 12. The Program Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)
 13. The CAT DDO instrument was designed to provide a financing bridge to funds from other
     sources. The program supports the following strategic areas of action for implementation of
     the Government’s program:
            a. Improve risk identification and monitoring, and increase awareness of risk
            b. Increase prevention and mitigation measures for risk reduction
            c. Strengthen National System for Disaster Management and Prevention
            d. Reduce the fiscal vulnerability of the state to natural disasters

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)
 14. Policy areas were not revised.

1.6 Other significant changes
 15. No other significant changes were made to the project.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance
 16. The DPL with a CAT-DDO was a single tranche operation. The single Prior Action was
     fully implemented (Table 1). A declaration of a national state of disaster by the President of
     Colombia in accordance with Law No. 919 of 1984 was the agreed Drawdown trigger to
     access to funds. No specific Project Implementation Unit was created for this project but the
     Operational Manual defined the institutional arrangements involved in this operation (Annex
     6).
 17. On a December 7, 2010, a national state of disaster was declared by Presidential Decree
     as a result of widespread flooding associated with the La Niña phenomenon. From
     September 2010 to May 2011, continuous heavy rains caused mudslides and floods in 28 of
     Colombia´s 32 departments. Approximately 3.5 million people, representing nearly seven
     percent of the country´s total population, were displaced or suffered significant damages to
     their homes and livelihoods. Following the declaration of national state of disaster, the
     Colombia National Government submitted the official request for disbursement on
     December 24, 2010 and on December 27, 2010 the Bank disbursed the full balance of the
     CAT DDO.
 18. There were five indicators linked to the areas of actions. These indicators (Table 1) are
     the basis for assessing the performance of the operation.
Area of Action 1: Improved risk identification and monitoring, and increase awareness
 19. Expand the coverage of the hazard-monitoring network. In July 2008, Colombia had 18
     functioning seismic stations, 95 functioning volcanic monitoring stations and 249



                                                 9
        functioning automatic hydro-meteorological stations. As of December 2011, the country had
        35 functioning seismic stations, 303 functioning volcanic monitoring stations 6 and 270
        functioning automatic hydro-meteorological stations7. In reference to this indicator, while
        the benchmark set in the PAD aimed to “Expand the coverage of the hazard monitoring
        network?, the Government went further to establish specific goals to be achieved for the
        above mentioned hazard monitoring networks. The 2006-2010 National Development Plan
        defined the following goals: 170 seismic and volcanic stations (together) and 295 hydro-
        meteorological stations 8 . Furthermore, the 2010-2014 National Development Plan also
        defined a set of benchmarks regarding the expansion of seismic and volcanic stations,
        reflecting the Government’s on-going commitment towards improved risk identification and
        monitoring. The indicator related to the expansion of the coverage of the hazard-monitoring
        network – as defined on the PAD - has been met.
    20. Continue to address the needs of, on average; at least 80 percent of people in disaster
        affected areas that request support. At appraisal 80% of affected households that
        requested support were attended with resources from the National Fund of Calamities.
        According to National Unit for Disaster Risk Management (UNGRD), from 2008 to 2011
        the needs of more than 97% of affected households requesting support were addressed,
        which indicates that the indicator was largely met and exceeded. A graphic comparing the
        number of requests addressed to the number of requests received can be found in Annex 8.
    Area of Action 2: Increased prevention and mitigation measures for risk reduction
    21. Expand the number of municipalities that have disaster risk management plans. From
        2008 to 2009, 123 municipalities were assisted in the development of disaster risk
        management plans; and between 2010 and 2011 an additional 317 municipalities were
        assisted. Of the total number of municipalities assisted, 388 municipalities had disaster risk
        management plans by the end of 2011. The 2006-2010 NDP benchmark established by the
        Government was to expand disaster risk management plans to 200 municipalities, which
        reflects that not only did they achieve the indicator as set by the PAD but also exceeded the
        Government’s expectations.
    Area of Action 3: Strengthened policies and institutions of the National System for Disaster
    Management and Prevention
    22. Reduction of the number of people living in the high hazard zone of the Galeras
        Volcano. Of 5,757 people living in the high hazard zone at the time of appraisal, in
        December 2011 approximately 7.7% or 441 people had been resettled. The latter indicates
        that while the Bank’s indicator has been met, the benchmark established by the Government
        in 20119, of 500 resettled people, was not met. While in October 2008 the Government had
        already defined the guidelines and instruments to be used in the Galeras resettlement process,
        the very complex political economy surrounding of the area and the specific characteristics
        of the population involved, made it very difficult to implement. In particular, households
        living in the area continue to have a low perception of risk, due partly to the lack of
        historical memory of volcanic explosions, which affects their willingness to participate in


6
  Ingeominas, Informe de Gestión 2011.
7
  IDEAM, Informe de Gestión 2011.
8
  While the numeric target set by the Government under the 2006-2010 NDP was not achieved, there was an overall improvement of
the hydro-meteorological monitoring network in the 2008-2011 period. In fact by the end of 2011, the Government had managed to
repair 25 stations that were damaged during the 2010-2011 floods and, at the same time, it upgraded or replaced some of its existing
stations.
9
  The Ministry of Interior and Justice included in its Strategic Plan for 2011 the benchmark of 500 resettled people. In 2010, the
Government had also established a benchmark of 600 resettled people but only managed to achieve 47% of this goal with the
resettlement of 286 people.

                                                                 10
    the resettlement process. In addition, the resettlement process has been led by the National
    government with little support or active opposition from local governments. In spite of these
    difficulties the Government has identified and started to implement a number of actions that
    are expected to facilitate the resettlement process.
Area of Action 4: Reduced fiscal vulnerability of the state to natural events
23. Defined framework for Contingent Financing. This indicator has been met. In August
    2011 the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit published “Contingent Liabilities: The
    Colombian Experience? which, among others, discusses contingent liabilities arising from
    natural disasters. The document recommends the use of a set of instruments to achieve
    maximum risk coverage at minimum cost and is considered to adequately define a
    framework for contingent financing.




                                               11
Table 1: Prior Actions, Expected and Actual Outcomes

Development Objective: Strengthen the Government’s program to reduce risks resulting from adverse natural events
Prior Action                                   Government Benchmarks for 2011             Expected Outcomes                      Outcomes (December 2011)
The inclusion, as specific and prominent
elements in Colombia’s 2006-2010
National Development Plan, enacted as
Law 1151 of July 2007, of: (i) disaster risk
reduction and (ii) disaster risk management
strategy

Areas of Action
(1) Improved risk identification        and    Expand     coverage      of hazard         Expand coverage of hazard              The target was met.
 monitoring, and increase awareness            monitoring network from 18 seismic         monitoring network from 18
                                                                                                                                 35 seismic stations, 303 volcanic
                                               station, 95 volcanic monitoring            seismic station, 95 volcanic
                                                                                                                                 monitoring stations and 270
                                               stations and 249 automatic hydro-          monitoring stations and 249
                                                                                                                                 automatic hydro-meteorological.
                                               meteorological stations.                   automatic   hydro-meteorological
                                                                                          stations.
                                                                                          The National System for Disaster       The target was met.
                                                                                          Management and Prevention will
                                                                                                                                 More than 97% of people in
                                                                                          continue to address the needs of, on
                                                                                                                                 affected areas supported upon
                                                                                          average, 80 percent of people in
                                                                                                                                 request.
                                                                                          disaster affected areas that request
                                                                                          support.


(2) Increased prevention and mitigation        Expand the number of municipalities        Expand       the    number      of     The target was met.
 measures for risk reduction                   that have action plans for inclusion of    municipalities that have disaster
                                                                                                                                 388 municipalities that have
                                               risk    reduction     in     territorial   risk management plans. On
                                                                                                                                 disaster risk management plans.
                                               development plans, from 20 that have       October 1, 2008, 10 municipalities
                                               action plans by July 1, 2008.              had disaster risk management
                                                                                          plans.




                                                                                12
     Development Objective: Strengthen the Government’s program to reduce risks resulting from adverse natural events
     Areas of Action                                      Government Benchmarks for 2011                    Expected Outcomes                              Outcomes (December 2011)
     (3) Strengthened policies and institutions           Definition and validation of the                  Reduction in the number of people              The target was met.
      of National System for Disaster                     objectives and instruments for the                living in the high hazard zone of
                                                                                                                                                           7.7 % resettled people that used to
      Management and Prevention                           relocation of people living in the                the Galeras volcano.
                                                                                                                                                           live in high hazard zone of the
                                                          disaster impact zone of the Galeras
                                                                                                                                                           Galeras Volcano10.
                                                          Volcano.
     (4) Reduce the fiscal vulnerability of the           Consolidate national catastrophe risk             The Government will have defined The target was met.
      state to natural events                             financing strategy which facilitates              a framework for contingent
                                                                                                                                             The Government has a defined a
                                                          public sector risk transfer and                   financing.
                                                                                                                                             framework for contingent financing
                                                          generates incentives for private
                                                          sector risk transfer




10
   An update of the information suggested that the initial number of people living in the high hazard zone was 5,737. The 7,935 number presented in the PAD was an estimate from the available
information at the moment; the new estimate came from crossing the CENSUS and an available GIS system of the Galeras vicinity.



                                                                                                 13
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:
External factors
 24. Continuous heavy rains due to the 2010-2011 La Niña caused mudslides and floods in
     28 of Colombia’s 32 provinces (departments). Approximately 3.5 million people, which
     represent nearly seven percent of the country’s total population, were displaced or suffered
     significant damages to their homes and livelihoods. It was one of the worst disasters caused
     by a natural event in the country’s history; according to the national Government, the
     damage caused by this event was equivalent to around two percent of Colombia’s 2011 GDP.
     The average precipitation in some parts of Colombia in the middle of 2010 was five to six
     times above the average. In addition, rain-saturated mountain’s soil crumbled away, causing
     daily landslides as well as sedimentation, which raised water levels in rivers. While floods
     are very common in Colombia, the country had not expected to be affected at this scale by
     this type of event. An estimate of the economic impact of La Niña can be found in Annex 7.
 Factors under Government control
 25. Although this type of operation does not require an Operational Manual according to
     Bank’s procedures, the Government opted to prepare one to guide during project
     implementation. The Operational Manual defined the disbursement roadmap and the
     monitoring practices to be implemented in order to follow the project’s performance. In
     addition it outlined the institutional arrangement and specified responsibilities of each of the
     agencies. As the Operational Manual clearly defined the exact procedures and identified the
     institutions involved for credit disbursement, it allowed mitigating the risks of delays in
     disbursement due to changes in the administration. Furthermore, during the APL
     implementation internal simulations were made to evaluate the time needed for the
     disbursement of the contingent loan and identify possible bottlenecks. During the project’s
     supervision a disbursement drill was scheduled but given that the declaration of state of
     disaster occurred shortly thereafter, the drill was canceled.
 26. Following the election of Juan Manuel Santos as president, a number of ministries and
     agencies were reorganized, merged or divided, which led to changes in the institutional
     mapping of agencies dealing with the DRM agenda. In particular, the Directorate for
     Disaster Risk Management– which at appraisal was under the Justice and Interior Ministry –
     was reassigned and reformed to become the National Unit for Disaster Risk Management
     (UNGRD) under the direct responsibility of Presidency. This new organizational structure
     intended to give the UNGRD a higher level of autonomy and visibility allowing it to play a
     more active role in DRM. Furthermore, in December 2010, the Government launched an
     ambitious National Development Plan, called Prosperity for All 2010-2014. The latter
     highlighted four cross cutting themes that included “Environment and Disaster Risk
     Management?, reflecting the commitment of the Government to the continuation and
     improvement of the disaster risk management agenda as an important element to a more
     sustainable development.
 27. The delays of formal information flows from disaster-affected areas to the Government
     delayed the declaration of the national state of disaster and therefore also delayed the
     request and disbursement of the funds under the CAT DDO. Given the type of hazard
     that struck the country11 and the scale of the flooding it was difficult for the Government to
     obtain formal information of the magnitude of the disaster and exact location of the affected


11
   As Colombia´s typical rainy season was overlapped by the Niña phenomenon, it was debated if the floods occurring were the
normal annual floods or a less recurrent event.

                                                               14
       areas that would support the declaration of national state of disaster. Prior to 2010, only one
       declaration of national state of disaster had been made and it was due to the Eje Cafetero
       earthquake in 1999, in which identifying affected areas and the magnitude of the disaster
       was more easily done due to the type of hazard. The latter reflects the importance of having
       in place a solid information system that allows the Government to identify and respond
       efficiently to disasters generated by different hazards.
 28. Although initially the DPL with a CAT DDO loan was designed to allow for a revolving
     feature permitting the drawdown period to be renewed up to four times, the
     Government was legally prevented from making use of it. In July 2011 the Bank was
     informed that due to legal constraints once the CAT DDO disbursement was made, the
     authorization of indebtedness would be exhausted and a new authorization would need to be
     requested to pursue new disbursements. Since the CAT DDO was a new lending instrument
     to the Government and a revolving feature loan had not been applied previously, there were
     no precedents for the Government. This led the Government to close the existing CAT DDO
     and request a new operation at the same time, leaving a gap in time between the two projects,
     in which the Government was not covered. The second CAT DDO was approved on July 10,
     2012 and is discussed in Section 2.4.
 Financial bridge for support from other sources
 29. The timing in which the 2010-2011 La Niña struck allowed the Government to
     reallocate unspent budgets of the 2010 Calendar year12 to help respond to the disaster.
     In December 2010, as the magnitude of the disaster became more apparent, the Government
     asked all of the Ministries to provide unspent budget and reallocated it for disaster response.
     Furthermore, the country had faced an encouraging financial situation in 2010 having
     quickly recuperated from the 2008 Global Financial Crisis.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:
 30. The indicators selected to monitor the progress towards the achievement of the PDO
     correctly reflected the defined areas of action and corresponded to the expected
     outcomes of the prior action. In fact, four of the five indicators included, were part of the
     2006-2010 NDP and had specific benchmarks to be achieved under the latter. This was
     intended to make the collection of the information easier, since the same indicators were
     being used by the Government to monitor progress in the NDP. While it was not required
     for this type of operation the Government prepared an Operational Manual.
 31. As defined in the Operational Manual the borrower would issue a yearly report to
     inform of progress in the national disaster risk management agenda and to follow
     progress in project indicators. Two yearly reports were issued covering the June 2009-
     2010 and June 2010-2011 periods and the Government’s Completion Report is expected to
     cover the June-December 2011 period. However, while these reports did provide a rich
     overview of the disaster risk agenda in the period of analysis, the progress made on each of
     the indicators was not consistently included13.
 32. The Bank team conducted regular supervision missions and followed project
     implementation closely. Most of the supervision missions for the CAT DDO were done in




12
  In Colombia the calendar year corresponds to the fiscal year.
13
  While it is understandable that some project indicators cannot be updated for every year of the project’s implementation, it would be
good practice to explain missing information.

                                                                 15
    conjunction with those for the APL, which was beneficial given synergies between these two
    operations regarding the development of the national disaster risk management framework.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation
33. As previously mentioned, a Second Disaster Risk Management Development Policy
    Loan with a CAT DDO was recently prepared with the Colombian Government and
    approved by the Bank Board on July 10, 2012 . The aim of the next DPL with a CAT
    DDO is to strengthen the Government’s program for reducing risks resulting from adverse
    natural events. This objective will be achieved by supporting three strategic policy areas of
    action for implementation of the Government’s program. These policy areas are: (1)
    strengthen disaster risk management institutional and planning capacity; (2) strengthen the
    institutional framework and capacity for including disaster risk management in land use
    planning; and (3)strengthen policies and tools to reduce risk in the housing sector.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
34. The objectives, design and implementation of the DPL with a CAT DDO were highly
    relevant to Colombia’s current development priorities. The DPL with a CAT DDO was
    appropriate at the time of appraisal and provided a better instrument to reduce the country’s
    fiscal vulnerability to natural disaster than the contingent loan under subcomponent E.2 of
    the first APL, since the lending conditions for disbursement of the first served development
    purposes significantly better. Furthermore, the operation was also consistent with the Bank
    Country Partnership Strategy and complementary to other Bank activities in Colombia,
    namely the APL series and other knowledge and convening services (see Figure 1).




                                              16
                               Figure 1: Stages of Engagement in Colombia on Disaster Risk Management by Type
                                                             of Services Provided.

                                 Foundations &
                                                              Strengthening                                       Consolidation
                                 Early Support
                                                               (2004–2009)                                        (2010– 2012)
                                  (1998 - 2003)
                                                      PHRD Grant for Colombia              Colombia Country Disaster Risk Management Analysis
                                                       Disaster Vulnerability Reduction      (TF098966)
                                                       Project (TF052529)                   Probabilistic Risk Information Technical Assistance Projects
                                                      PHRD Grant for Bogota Disaster        (TF09324)
        Knowledge Services




                                                       Vulnerability Reduction Project      Publication. Preventative Resettlement of Populations at Risk
                                                       (TF053759)                            of Disaster: The Case of Nueva Esperanza, Bogota.
                                                      Report on Seismic Risk Retention     Colombia Disaster Risk Financing Strategy (P128518)
                                                       and Transfer for Colombia.           Agricultural Risk Management (TF050595 )
                                                       Risk Management and Insurance        Strengthening Governance for Social Risk Management
                                                      First GFDRR disaster risk             (P123616)
                                                       management Country Note              Reference Book on Probabilistic Catastrophe Risk Modeling
                                                                                             (TF091242)
                                                                                            Technical Support for identification of Barranquilla Urban
                                                                                             Flood Risk Management project (TF096323)

                                 Colombia            Disaster Risk Management DPL         National Macroproyectos Social Interest Project (P110671)
                                  Earthquake           with a CAT DDO (P113084)             GFDRR Grant for Preparation of Barranquilla Urban Flood
                                  Recovery Project    National Disaster Vulnerability       Management Project (TF096015)
Financial Services




                                  (P065263)            Reduction Project (P082429)          First Programmatic Fiscal Sustainability and Growth
                                                      Bogota Disaster Vulnerability         Resilience DPL (P123267)
                                                       Reduction Project (P085727)          Second Disaster Risk Management DPL with a CAT DDO
                                                                                             (P126583)
                                                                                            National Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project Phase Two
                                                                                             (P130456)
                                                                                            Barranquilla Urban Flood Management Project (P120159)
                                                                                            GFDRR Grant for Consolidation of Colombia Disaster Risk
                                                                                             Management
                                                      Yearly participation at National     Participation and presentation at International Convention on
                                                       Insurance Association                 Insurance (September, 2010)
                                                       (FASECOLDA) Annual Meetings          Support and helped convene Andean Regional Workshop on
                                                      International Conference on           Disaster Risk in the Water Sector hosted by the
                                                       Disaster Vulnerability Reduction      Colombian Association of Sanitary and Environmental
                                                       (March 2009).                         Engineering (October 2010) (TF097821)
                                                      Support to and presentation at       National Workshop on Preventive Resettlement and DRM
          Convening Services




                                                       Colombian Association of              (October 2010)
                                                       Sanitary and Environmental           Interministerial Consultative Workshop on Disaster Risk
                                                       Engineering Annual Conference         Management (March 5-9, 2012)
                                                       (September 2009).                    National Workshop on Urban Disaster Risk Management
                                                      Support to and key note speech at     (June 13-15, 2012)
                                                       SNPAD 20 year anniversary            Public launch of Colombia Country Disaster Risk
                                                       conference (September 2009).          Management Analysis (June 25, 2012)
                                                      Support to and presentation at       Improving the Assessment of Disaster Risks to Strengthen
                                                       High-Level National Disaster Risk     Financial Resilience (G20 Publication): Contingent Liability
                                                       Financing conference (May 2009).      Management in Colombia. (June 2012)
                                                      Workshop on Preventive
                                                       Resettlement and Safeguards
                                                       (December 2 – 4, 2009)




                                                                                    17
Consistency with Government Priorities
35. Disaster risk reduction continues to be a priority for the Government of Colombia.
    Since the mid-1990s, Colombia has moved from disaster response to disaster risk
    management. In 1998, by Decree 93, the Colombian Government ratified the National Plan
    for Disaster Management and Prevention (Plan Nacional para la Prevención y Atención de
    Desastres, PNPAD) which shifted the focus from emergency response to a comprehensive
    disaster risk management strategy. Most recently the reduction of fiscal vulnerability was
    included in the National Development Plan 2002–2006, and disaster risk management has
    been broadly considered in the last four National Development Plans, including President
    Santos’ Plan 2010-2014. Furthermore, in April, 2012, President Juan Manuel Santos signed
    into law the National Disaster Risk Management Act. The new Act replaces a system
    previously focused entirely on disaster response, that is, all emergency systems were
    mobilized in the event of a disaster. Disaster risk management in Colombia will now be
    organized according to four key pillars: i) a new national framework led by the Disaster Risk
    Management Unit, as a subordinate to the Office of the President, ii) territorial planning
    which mandates local authorities to incorporate risk and hazard analysis in regional land-use
    plans to prevent further construction in areas unsuitable for human habitation, iii) funding
    from the newly established National Disaster Risk Management Fund, and iv) special
    procedures which allow for faster and more effective response to natural emergencies and
    natural disasters.
36. The 2010-2014 NDP included disaster risk management as a development priority and
    recognized that the latter is essential to consolidate the objectives of poverty reduction.
    Furthermore, the Government’s long-term vision and development strategy, laid in the
    Vision Colombia 2019 policy- planning document, identified the following policy areas
    needed to be addressed to achieve greater levels of well-being: (a) strengthening actions in
    disaster risk prevention and mitigation and (b) reducing the fiscal vulnerability of the
    Colombian Government to natural hazards.
Relationship with Bank Strategy
37. Disaster risk mitigation is a high priority for the Bank’s engagement under the current
    Country Partnership Strategy for FY12-FY16. The latter includes disaster risk
    management under the Sustainable Growth with Enhanced Climate Change Resilience
    thematic area and identifies the following outcomes: (1) strengthening technical capacity for
    disaster risk management at the national and regional levels, and (2) having a national policy
    for disaster risk management formulated.
38. The inclusion of the disaster risk management agenda in the two past CPSs reflects the
    continued engagement of the Government and the Bank in regard to this thematic area
    and the agreed importance of pursuing this agenda in order to achieve higher
    development objectives. Colombia is experiencing increasing economic losses as a result of
    natural hazards and natural disasters which represent a substantial fiscal contingent liability
    given potential losses to publically owned assets and the private assets of low income groups
    (which the Government would be compelled to partially compensate). The first CAT DDO
    and second CAT DDO, are part of the broad spectrum of the Bank’s catastrophe financing
    instruments available to assist borrowers in planning efficient responses to catastrophic
    events.
39. In addition, the DPL with a CAT DDO indirectly supports the continuity of other
    activities of the Bank portfolio in the country as it reduced the risk of reallocation of
    funds to respond to a national level catastrophe. In 1999, the scale and magnitude of the
    impacts caused by the Eje Cafetero earthquake led, to a declaration of national state of

                                                18
    disaster and, to the need to restructure four ongoing Bank operations in order to reallocate
    funds for disaster response and reconstruction. The first CAT DDO and the follow-up
    operation would continue to provide the Government with a rapid source of funds in the event
    of a major disaster triggered by a natural event, enabling a quicker response to address
    disaster needs and reducing the risk of having to halt or divert resources from other
    development priorities in its NDP. In fact compared to the 1999 Eje Cafetero earthquake, in
    which four Bank loans for a total amount of US$93 million were restructured to finance the
    start-up of the reconstruction program, no Bank financed operation was restructured with the
    purpose of providing emergency recovery due to the 2010-2011 floods.
Complementarities with Other World Bank Activities
40. The DPL with a CAT DDO is part of the Bank’s portfolio of activities seeking to have a
    broader disaster risk management strategy. The disaster risk management portfolio in
    Colombia included financial, knowledge and convening services. These include, apart from
    the Second CAT DDO previously mentioned, the following activities: (1) the Natural
    Disaster Vulnerability Reduction APL1 signed in 2005 (7293-CO); (2) the Disaster
    Vulnerability Reduction APL2 (7365-CO) which consisted of a subnational loan to the
    District of Bogota; (3) ongoing technical assistance using an open source risk assessment
    platform to integrate probabilistic risk information into specific policy-making processes; and
    (4) a Programmatic Fiscal Sustainability and Growth Resilience DPL (8080-CO) that will
    support the development of a National Financing Strategy to reduce the fiscal vulnerability of
    the state to various risks, including disasters triggered by natural events. For more
    information please refer to figure 1. In addition, the Colombia Country Disaster Risk
    Management Analysis was launched in 2012, which provides the basis for future Bank
    assistance regarding this thematic line and identifies areas where Colombia could improve
    institutions and policies for a better disaster risk management.
Alignment with Good Practice Principles on Conditionality
41. The DPL with a CAT DDO was aligned with the Bank’s five Good Practice Principles of
    Conditionality. The DPL with a CAT DDO reinforced ownership by aligning with
    Government goals, as outlined under the 2006-2010 NDP , using existent indicators to follow
    up on implementation progress and supporting a set of prior actions in conjunction with the
    Government.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
42. The DPL with a CAT DDO supported the Government’s disaster risk management
    program outlined under the 2006-2010 National Development Plan and aimed at
    strengthening the Government’s program for reducing risk resulting from adverse
    natural events.
43. Establishing a direct causal relationship between the CAT DDO and progress made in
    the Government’s disaster risk program is complex since it is part of a larger disaster
    risk management portfolio of the Bank. As previously mentioned the DPL with a CAT
    DDO originated from the contingent credit line of the APL 1, and therefore some of its key
    indicators are linked to this operation. The CAT DDO supported the policy dialogue and
    provided a source of liquidity following the 2010-2011 floods, which was complemented
    with technical assistance and financial resources provided under APL1 and 2.
44. The presence of a non-national actor like the Bank has served as a catalyst for the
    development of a more integral disaster risk program in the country. The Government of
    Colombia has recognized that the continuous involvement of the Bank in this area has

                                                19
    strengthened the Government’s program and influenced its sustainability. The synergies
    provided by the different activities of the disaster risk management portfolio in the country
    have led the Government to develop a more holistic view of the disaster risk management
    agenda. In this sense, the DPL with a CAT DDO contributed to the dialogue for the
    development of a broader strategy to reduce the fiscal vulnerability of the state to natural
    disasters. While a National Catastrophe Risk Financing Strategy is not yet ready, in August
    2011, the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit produced a first publication entitled
    “Contingent Liabilities: the Colombian Experience? which underpins a future risk financing
    strategy. The latter, included a chapter on covering contingent liabilities arising from natural
    disasters and recommended the use of a set of instruments – that go from contingent credit
    lines to collective insurance programs – to achieve maximum risk coverage at minimum cost.
    Furthermore, the broad portfolio of World Bank activities related to disaster risk management
    has allowed the opportunity to bring new institutions and sectors (i.e. the Ministry of
    Transport, Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Agriculture) that were previously absent
    from the dialogue to discuss the disaster risk management agenda.
45. A significant improvement in risk identification and monitoring was achieved through a
    considerable expansion of the hazard-monitoring network. The DPL with a CAT DDO,
    along with the APL1, supported the goals set out under the 2006-2010 NDP, to improve of
    the hazard-monitoring network of Colombia. As a result, at closure of this operation, the
    country had significantly expanded the number of seismic, volcanic and hydro-
    meteorological stations. Furthermore, a number of additional goals to further expand the
    coverage of the network were set out under the 2010-2014 NDP, and will be partially
    financed under the APL1 operation. Also, despite the widespread floods that affected the
    country, the National Disaster Risk Management System was able to increase its respond rate
    to the needs of people in affected areas that requested support. Information regarding these
    key outcome indicators can be found in Annex 8.
46. The Government has made remarkable progress in strengthening local disaster risk
    management capacity. Both the DPL with a CAT DDO and the APL1 supported the
    development of activities to increase prevention and mitigation measures for risk reduction as
    outlined in the 2006-2010 NDP. For this purpose, the UNGRD led a national program to
    assist municipalities in their development of local disaster risk management plans. While in
    2010 the UNDGR set a goal to reach a total of 200 municipalities, by the end of the year it
    had already reached 226 municipalities and in December 2011 there were 388 municipalities
    with disaster risk management plans. Furthermore, the success of this program led the
    Government to include it in the 2010-2014 NDP and set more ambitious goals to reach a total
    of 790 municipalities.
47. Although during the operation there was a reduction in the number of people living in
    the high hazard zone of the Galeras Volcano, and the key outcome indicator was met,
    the resettlement process has been very complex. In December 2011 7.7% of people living
    in the high hazard zone had been resettled. The negative perception of the local population in
    relation to resettlement as well as problems in communication between the entity in charge of
    the resettlement process and the affected population contributed to the slow rate of progress.
    However the Government has recently established an action plan to improve its
    communication with the affected population and tackle some of the legal aspects that were
    deterring the resettlement process.
48. In order to reduce the fiscal vulnerability of the State to natural disasters the
    Government defined a framework for contingent financing (August, 2011) and started
    working on the consolidation of a national catastrophe risk financing strategy. In May
    2012 released a conceptual framework for the design of a national catastrophe risk financing

                                                20
     strategy. In addition, following the project’s implementation, the Ministry of Finance and
     Public Credit recognized the importance of having a Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance
     Strategy to support the identification and selection of appropriate financial instruments based
     on fiscal circumstances and available resources. As previously mentioned, when widespread
     floods due to the 2010-2011 La Niña started to affect vast territories of the country, Colombia
     was in a good fiscal situation having quickly recuperated from the 2008 Global Financial
     Crisis and was able to redirect unspent budgets for emergency response.
49. The CAT DDO proved to be able to disburse in a timely manner and respond to the
    requests of the Government in an efficient way. The scale and magnitude of the disaster
    justified the declaration, in November 2010, of a national state of calamity 14 and, on
    December 7, a declaration on national state of disaster. As the Government had been
    implementing the disaster risk management program outlined under the DPL, on December
    24, 2010 the Government submitted the official request for disbursement and on December
    27, 2010 the Bank disbursed the full balance of the CAT DDO. The latter revealed that both
    the Bank system and those in Colombia function well for the rapid disbursement of funds.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

50. The DPL with a CAT DDO is rated Satisfactory. The operation’s objectives, design and
    implementation, and outcomes were relevant to Colombia’s development priorities and
    country circumstances as defined by the 2006-2010 and 2010-2014 NDP. The operation is
    also fully consistent with the previous and current CPS reflecting the continued engagement
    of the Government and the Bank in regard to this thematic area. The Country’s disaster risk
    management program made considerable progress during the project’s implementation,
    especially in the four areas of action supported by the project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

51. The DPL with a CAT DDO supported indirectly the most vulnerable segments of the
    population by addressing disaster risk issues that affect them disproportionately. As has
    been extensively documented, disasters triggered by natural events disproportionately affect
    the poor populations living in slums and squatter settlements on steep hillsides, in poorly
    drained areas, and in low-lying coastal zones. The poor are the most vulnerable to economic
    and human capital losses from disasters triggered by natural event and are victims of both
    rare catastrophic events and of frequent low-intensity events, and their adverse cumulative
    impacts.




14
   Upon the declaration of national state of calamity, the Ministry of Finance expressed the desire to the Bank to use this mechanism to
access the CAT DDO. However, the Bank team considered that this option was neither possible nor deemed desirable from the
Ministry of National Planning and the Ministry of Interior, given that the defined trigger was carefully selected and clearly understood.
Actually in Colombia there are three levels of perturbations due to the occurrence of national disasters that trigger specific response
mechanisms: the declaration of calamities whose responsibility lies within sectional authorities and the declaration of disaster which
can only be done by the President. They were each designed to respond to different scales of disasters and trigger different response
mechanisms. For instance, it is only with a declaration on national state of disaster that the Government is allowed to make contracts
without using Ley 80 de 1993.



                                                                  21
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

52. The DPL with a CAT DDO supported the dialogue among sectors in subjects related to
    disaster risk management and the expansion of this agenda to lower levels of
    government. Both of these impacts have been discussed in the previous section (see
    paragraph 44 and 46). For instance, it supported the assistance for the development of disaster
    risk management plans in municipalities. As a result a total of 388 municipalities were
    counted with disaster risk management plans by the end of 2011, compared to 10 in 2008.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

53. As articulated in statements made by the Government, the CAT DDO instrument had
    additional value added due to the comforting signal it transmitted to capital markets
    and population in adverse circumstances. The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
    brought to light that having access to a contingent credit line had diminished the negative
    effects of a declaration of national state of disaster on markets and provided a strong message
    to the Colombian population that the Government was prepared to respond to large scale
    natural disasters.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to low

54. The risks facing the project were satisfactorily assessed, as were the factors that would
    help to mitigate them. The creation of the Operational Manual which specified procedures
    for disbursement, among others, served to mitigate risks associated with delays in
    disbursement. In addition, the strong ownership and commitment of the Government for the
    decentralization of capacities for disaster risk management and the early involvement of local
    and departmental authorities served to diminish the risk deriving from inter-institutional
    arrangements.
55. As the memory of the most recent disaster fades away the Government might redirect
    its efforts toward other priorities. Although the current NDP (2010-2014) and the CPS
    have identified this thematic area as a priority and an essential step for the achievement of
    higher development objectives, there is a risk that reform attention will be diverted as other
    priorities rise on the political agenda. However, the risk of this happening is considered low
    as the Government has asked the Bank to be its strategic partner in moving reforms forward.
    Furthermore, the second DPL with a CAT DDO, the second National Disaster Vulnerability
    Reduction project and the Programmatic Fiscal Sustainability and Growth Resilience DPL
    will allow the Bank and the Government to work together and continue developing the
    disaster risk management agenda.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
   Rating: Satisfactory

                                                22
56. The replacement of the contingent credit line under APL 1 for the DPL with a CAT
    DDO was consistent with the Government’s needs and the introduction by the Bank of a
    new contingent credit. The Bank responded rapidly to the request for the replacement of the
    contingent credit line under APL1 (September 2008) with the DPL with a CAT DDO
    (approved by the Board in December 2008 and declared effective in June 2009), which
    served development purposes significantly better.
57. Quality of entry was ensured through a high level of consistency between the operation
    and the NDP. The approach followed the Bank’s good principles on conditionality into
    programs design and implementation. Furthermore, at appraisal, the Bank correctly evaluated
    the country’s macroeconomic framework and identified implementation risks to be mitigated
    by mobilizing a team that involved experts from Disaster Risk Management, World Bank
    Treasury and the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management department. In addition, the
    key outcome indicators selected were clearly linked with the four areas of actions included in
    the disaster risk management program of the government and supported by this operation.
(b) Quality of Supervision
       Rating: Satisfactory

58. The Bank guided the Government in the preparation of an Operational Manual15 that
    served to mitigate implementation risks identified at appraisal. The Operational Manual,
    which was prepared after the loan became effective, allowed the identification of
    disbursement protocols and legal frameworks, and outlined the monitoring system to be
    implemented to assess progress toward development objectives.
59. The Bank’s team made regular supervision missions and kept itself informed on project
    implementation by having a continuous dialogue with the government. Apart from the
    supervision missions, the two yearly reports produced by the Government allowed the team
    to follow progress towards the achievement of its PDOs.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
       Rating: Satisfactory

         60. Both the Bank’s performance for quality at entry and quality of supervision was
             satisfactory, therefore the overall performance is rated as satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
       Rating: Satisfactory
Refer to paragraph 61.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
       Rating: not applicable (The Government and the implementing agency were the same)
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
       Rating: Satisfactory


15
     Operational Manuals are not required by the Bank for this type of operation.



                                                                   23
61. Overall Government performance is rated satisfactory in accordance with the following
    criteria:

    i. The enabling environment included supportive macro, sectoral, and institutional policies
       that were appropriate to country circumstances. Despite the Global Financial Crisis the
       government maintained a sound macro-economic policy and was committed for the
       development of the disaster risk management program. In the aftermath of the
       widespread floods the Government decided to rearrange the main agency in charge of
       developing the disaster risk management agenda giving it higher levels of authority and
       autonomy.
    ii. The Government’s implementation arrangements were aligned with the project’s needs.
        While no specific implementation unit was created for project implementation and the
        Government’s existing institutions were used, the Operational Manual identified which
        agencies or ministries needed to take an active role in the project and defined specific
        responsibilities for each.
   iii. The Government’s Operational Manual and yearly reports allowed adequate M&E of the
        project’s progress towards achieving PDOs.
   iv. Implementation issues were resolved in a timely manner, resulting in a timely
       disbursement of funds.
    v. The Government was overall committed to the development of the disaster risk
       management agenda.
   vi. The Government did not manage to clarify in a timely manner the existing legal
       framework that constrained the revolving mechanism of the CAT DDO, which delayed
       transitional arrangements towards a new operation.

6. Lessons Learned
62. The Operational Manual presented by the Government, which was a first for this type
    of operation, proved to be an efficient instrument to guide project’s implementation.
    The Operational Manual accurately identified institution’s responsibilities, disbursement and
    monitoring procedures. The latter served, among others, to mitigate the risks due to changes
    in the administration and of delays in disbursement.
63. In order to rapidly respond to a disaster it is as important to have measures in place for
    identification of affected areas and disaster response priorities, as it is for a timely
    disbursement of funds. The natural disaster that led to the declaration of national state of
    disaster in Colombia in December 2010 revealed how the impacts caused by widespread
    flooding were more difficult to assess that those generated by other types of hazards, which
    are concentrated in a given territory. The delays in identifying affected areas and the
    magnitude of the disasters led to delays in the declaration on national state of disaster and
    therefore, in the request and disbursement of funds under the CAT DDO.
64. The lack of a detailed plan to follow in the aftermath of a catastrophic event can affect
    the efficiency of the Government to respond to the disaster. While at the time of the
    widespread floods the Government was able to collect sufficient funds, spending them rapidly,
    in order to efficiently respond to the catastrophe, was problematic. The latter was due, in part
    to the difficulty in identifying the exact needs of the affected territories as well as setting
    rules to prioritize response actions. This along with the delays of formal information flows
    demonstrates the importance of having a solid information system and suggests that having a
    roadmap to execute resources might be useful for the borrower.

                                                24
65. This operation confirmed that apart from its “bridging capacities?, the DPL with a
    CAT DDO is a valuable instrument to provide comforting signals to financial markets
    and the population. The borrower highlighted that having access to a contingent credit line,
    like the CAT DDO, had reduced the negative effects on markets of the declaration of national
    state of disaster and provided a strong message to the Colombian population that the
    Government was prepared to respond to a large scale natural disasters. Furthermore, during
    the catastrophe there was no need to restructure ongoing Bank operations to reallocate funds
    for disaster response. The previous suggests that, as in the case of other Deferred Drawdown
    Option loans of the Bank, when uncertainty is high but a country’s macroeconomic
    fundamentals are strong, the Bank can be an effective partner in helping to reassure the
    markets.
66. A diagnostic of the country’s legal framework at appraisal and a constant dialogue with
    the government’s legal department during supervision can be an effective tool to
    identify legal constraints that would allow the country to benefit from the revolving
    feature of this type of loan and act accordingly. As previously mentioned, in this operation,
    due to legal constraints it was not possible for the government to benefit from the revolving
    mechanisms permitting the Government to repay the original loan amount and continue the
    use of the DPL with a CAT DDO. The latter resulted in the need to prepare a second DPL
    with a CAT DDO that left a gap in time between the two projects, during which the
    Government was not covered.
67. The CAT DDO should be part of a country’s broader disaster risk financing strategy.
    There is a need to include this type of instrument in a broader fiscal strategy for the protection
    to natural disasters that will allow the Government to make decisions about whether or not
    they need to access funds at a given point. Having a consolidated fiscal strategy enhances the
    efficiency of this type of instruments and the benefits that the Government can obtain with
    this contingent credit line.
68. Given the revolving option of this credit line, the Bank needs to develop a more
    consistent result framework to correctly assess achievement of development objective
    for the possible total time of implementation. Although the DPL with a CAT DDO in
    Colombia did not benefit from the revolving option, the outcomes and benchmarks identified
    at appraisal would not have permitted to evaluate further progress in the government’s
    disaster risk management program for longer periods of implementation. The latter suggest
    that a more long-term results framework needs to be developed for this type of operation in
    order to allow an assessment of progress for each period of implementation, if the revolving
    mechanism is used.
69. The implementation of the DPL with a CAT DDO along with other lending and non-
    lending activities, such as the first APL, was beneficial for the development of a more
    integral approach to disaster risk management in the country. The combination of
    technical assistance, specific investment lending and the DPL with a CAT DDO served to
    strengthen the policy dialogue with the government and assist them in the strengthening both
    their technical expertise and institutional capacities.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
The Government and the implementing agency were the same. A summary of the Borrower’s
ICR can be found on Annex 4. There were no major comments made or issues raised by the
Borrower on the Bank ICR.




                                                 25
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
          Names                                  Title                         Unit
Lending
 Niels B. Holm-Nielsen    TTL - Senior Disaster Risk Management Specialist    LCSUW
Francis Ghesquiere        Lead Urban Specialist                               LCSUW
Carlos Costa              Consultant                                          LCSUW
Edward Anderson           ET Consultant                                       LCSUW
Ana Maria Torres          Consultant                                          LCSUW
Armando Guzman            Senior Disaster Risk Management Specialist          LCSUW
Emma Phillips             Consultant                                          LCSUW
Joaquin Toro              Disaster Risk Management Specialist                 LCSUW
Ana Daza                  Program Assistant                                   LCSUW
Maricarmen Esquivel       Consultant                                          LCSUW
Christian Yves Gonzalez   Economist                                           LCSPE
David Rosenblatt          Lead Economist and Sector Leader                    LCSPE
Manuel Vargas             Sr Financial Management Specialist                  LCSFM
Supervision
 Eric Dickson             Disaster Risk Management Specialist                  LCSUW
 Ana Campos Garcia        E T Consultant                                       LCSUW
 Francis Ghesquiere       Program Manager                                      SASDU
 Olivier Mahul            Program Coordinator                                  FCMNB
 Ulrich Cedric Myboto     Consultant                                         CCAVP-LVL
 Ana Maria Torres         Consultant                                            BDM

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage                                                      USD Thousands (including
                                No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY 2009                         2.4                             28.0
Total:                          2.4                             28.0
Supervision/ICR
FY 2009                         5.03                            19.7
FY 2010                         8.89                            34.2
FY 2011                         7.32                            18.0
FY 2012                         19.38                           59.8
Total:                          40.62                           131.7




                                           26
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                      27
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                   28
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


1. The Government believes that the DPL with a CAT DDO achieved its objectives since it
   allowed the Government to benefit from a rapid flow of resources following the declaration
   of national state of disaster. Furthermore, when compared to the disbursement procedures of
   the contingent credit line under the first APL, the DPL with a CAT DDO was considered a
   better option since it allowed for a quicker disbursement and more flexible use of funds.
2. The Government considers that the declaration of national state of disaster is an adequate
   trigger and recommends using the same trigger for the follow up operation since this type of
   declaration is only used in exceptional circumstances due to the possible consequences it may
   have on the country’s risk ratings or in the level of confidence of investors.
3. The Government highlighted the importance of having systematically robust instruments for
   information management that allow a prioritization of actions for emergency response. It
   considers that having robust evaluation instruments of the level of damage will allow having
   a faster prioritization of actions, and lead to a more efficient use of the available resources.
   Strengthening information flows between the different levels of governance was considered a
   key component for a better information management.
4. The implementation of the project along with the current portfolio of Bank operations in
   Colombia is considered to be essential for the development of an integrated disaster risk
   management approach in Colombia. In addition, the assistance provided by the Bank was
   considered fundamental for the achievement of the project’s objective and key indicators. The
   expansion of the disaster risk monitoring system and municipal disaster risk management
   plans were considered among the most relevant results.
5. Finally, the Government acknowledges that there is a higher level of awareness of risk and its
   consequences on the country’s development. This is reflected in the inclusion of disaster risk
   management activities in a number of sectoral plans, although resources are not always
   assigned for the development of these activities. The 2010-2014 National Development Plan
   as well as the follow up operations (second DPL with a CAT DDO and second phase of the
   Disaster Vulnerability Project) are expected to further promote the development of sectoral
   instruments for a better disaster risk management.




                                                29
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    30
Annex 6. Institutional Arrangements for Project Implementation



Figure 1 presents the Government institutional arrangement for project implementation. Each of
these institutions had specific responsibilities described by the Operational Manual.

Ministry of Justice and Interior: For this operation the Ministry of Justice and Interior was in
responsible for programming and executing disbursement drills, revising and adjusting
disbursement protocols and providing information for the operation’s yearly reports to the
National Planning Department.

National Planning Department: The National Planning Department was responsible for
coordinating and updating the Operations Manual, consolidating information, writing annual
reports, and following up on the program supported by this DPL to assure the achievement of
objectives.

Ministry of Finance and Public Credit: The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit was
responsible for of developing the additional budget decree that will allow incorporating funds
from the CAT DDO and developing the framework for contingent financing in coordination with
the National Planning Department.

                          Figure 1: Institutional Arrangements
                             National Government




 Ministry of Justice   National Planning Department           Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
   and Interior



   Disaster Risk          General Sub-direction        General Public Credit and       General Public
   Management                                             National Treasury           Budget Direction
    Direction                                                  Direction


                                   Credit Sub-                Risk Sub-
                                                                                           Social
                                    direction                 direction
                                                                                        Development
                                                                                        Sub-direction
                                   Sustainable            Operations Sub-
                                  Development                direction
                                  Sub-direction

                                                             Multilateral
                                                               Credit
                                                           Financing Sub-
                                                              direction




                                                  31
Annex 7. Impact of La Niña 2010-2011 on the Colombian economy


                        Impact of the 2010-2011 Flooding

 The impact of the 2010-2011 La Niña event reflects the complexity of hazard
 risk in Colombia and the gaps and deficiencies facing disaster risk management.
 When compared with recent records of reported disasters from 2000-2009, the
 recent flooding affected approximately 3.5 million people and resulted in
 accumulated damages and losses amounting to 25% of the previous decade’s
 totals (see Figure 2), one-third of reported deaths and affected persons, and
 approximately 50% of houses damaged. The floods emphasized to a large degree
 what was already known: there is a need to strengthen the national system for a
 more efficient management of hazard risk.


          Figure 2: Estimated Economic Losses from La Niña 2010-2011
                   Losses: US$4.5 billion (to February 2011)




                               Source: BID – CEPAL 2011




                                            32
Annex 8. Hazard Monitoring and Response Data

The following figures refer to progress made in key indicators during project’s
implementation.

Figure 3: Volcanic Hazard Monitoring Network Expansion for Calendar Year 2011

                       70
                       60
  Installed Stations




                       50
                       40
                       30
                       20
                       10
                       0
                                Jan   Feb     Mar     Apr    May    Jun        Jul   Aug    Sep     Oct    Nov     Dec
                                                                        2011
                                                            Programmed         Executed 

Source: Ingeominas, Informe de Gestión 2011

          Figure 4: National Calamities Fund: Requests from affected population against
                                        requests addressed
  2,500,000


  2,000,000


  1,500,000


  1,000,000


           500,000


                            0
                                  2002      2003    2004    2005   2006    2007      2008   2009    2010   2011 2012*

                                                   Number of requests          Requests addressed

Source: Ministerio del Interior y de Justicia – Dirección de Gestión del Riesgo. Information for 2012 is from January to May.




                                                                          33
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents



World Bank

IBRD, Project Appraisal Document, Natural Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project in support
of the first phase of the Natural Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Program, April 11, 2005.

IBRD and IFC, Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Colombia for the period
FY2008-2011, March 4, 2008.

IBRD, Program Document, Proposed Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan with
a Catastrophic Risk Deferred Drawdown Option, November 13, 2008.

Treasury, Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option Product Note, April 26, 2011.

IBRD and IFC, Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Colombia for the period
FY2012-2016, June 11, 2011.

IBRD, Program Document, Second Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan with a
Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option, June 2012.

Government

Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico, Ministerio del Interior y de Justicia, Departamento
Nacional de Planeacion, Manual Operativo: Politica de Desarrollo para la Gestion del Riesgo de
Desastres Naturales, Contrato de Prestamo BIRF 7618- CO, Septiembre 2010.

IDEAM, Informe de Gestion 2011, Febrero de 2012.

Ingeominas, Informe de Gestion 2011, Febrero de 2012.




                                              34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 33388R
                                                                              75°W                                                                                                      70°W
                                                                                                                                      Puerto Bolívar

                C a r i bb e an S e a                                                                                                                  J   IR
                                                                                                                                                                A
                                                                                                                  Ríohacha                          UA
                                                                                                                                                G           To
                                                                           Santa Marta
                                                                                                                                         LA              Maracaibo
                                                                    Barranquilla                               Pico
                                                                                                               Cristóbal Colón
                                                 AT L ? N T I C O                                              (5,775 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                          COLOMBIA




                                                                                                           A
                                                     Cartegena                                                                  Valledupar




                                                                                                     N
                                                                                                 LE
                                                                                             DA
10°N
                                                                        Maganqué                               CESAR                                    Lago de




                                                                                       AG
                                                                                                                                                       Maracaibo




                                                                                      M
                                                             Sincelejo
        PA
               NA                                                                            El Baneo



                                                                          SU
                                                   Monteria
                    M
                                                                              CR



                                                                                                   AR
                                     Acandí                                                                                     NORTE DE

                                                                                   E
                                                                                                               Ocaña
                    A




                                                                                                                               SANTANDER



                                                                                                L?V
                                               Turbo                      A
                                                           D        OB                                                                               To                                                 R.B. DE
                                                                                            BO
                                                        ÓR
                                                                                                                                                    Mérida
                                                                                                                                     Cúcuta
                                                    C                                                                                                                                                 VENEZUELA
                                                                                uca


                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                              Ca
                                                    Cord




                                                                                                                                                                       Guasdualito
                                                                                                    Bucaramanga
                                                                        Yarumal
                                                                                                     le   na                                                               Arauca
                                                     iller




                                                                                                  da               Socorro
                                                           ANTIOQUIA                        Ma
                                                                                              g
                                                                                                                                                                 ARAUCA




                                                                                                                                              C?
                                          Atra




                                                                                                                                ER
                                                        a O




                                                                                                                AND                                                    Casanare
  PAC IF IC                                                                                     SANT
                                              to




                                                                                                                                         YA
                                                                     Medellin                                                                                                                                              Puerto
                                                            cci




                                                                                                                                       BO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Carreño
  OCEAN
                                                           dental




                                      Quibdo                                            Chiquinquirá                                                                                         Puerto
                                                                              S                                                                        CASANARE
                                     CHOCÓ                                LDA                                              Tunja
                                                                                                                                                                                             Nueva
                                                                     CA
                                                                      Manizales  CUNDINA-                                                       Yopal
5°N                                  RISARALD?                                                                                                                                                              Santa Rita                            5°N
                                                   Cartago           Pereira        MARCA
                                                                                            BOGOT?                                                                                      VICHADA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Atacavi
                                                                                                                                                           ta
                                                                     Armenia                                                                            Me
                                         QUINDIO
                                                                                            tal
                                                                                                                                                          San Pedro        Gaviotas
                                                                    Ibaque       Giradot
                                                                                         en     Villavincencio                                      Chaviva
                                                                                                                                                                                        Vich
                                                                                                                                                                                             a   da
                                                                                      ri
                                                                    al




                        Buenaventura                    Buga
                                                                              M A O
                                                                  ntr




                            VALLE DEL                                      LI     a       DISTRITO                                                                                                                    Puerto
                                                                      TO
                                                       Palmira                                                                                                                                                        Inirída
                                                               Ce



                                                                                 er




                                                                                                          CAPITAL
                                                                               ill




                             CAUCA Cali                                                                                              M E TA
                                                                              rd
                                                             a




                                                                                                San Juan
                                                           er


                                                                        Co




                                                                                               de Arama
                                                        ill




                                                                  Neiva                                                                                 Guaviare
                                                                                                                                                                                                      GUAIN?A
                                                     rd




                              CAUCA                               HULA                                                                                                            Mapiripana                    Tabaquén
                                                   Co




                                                                                                                                               San José
                            Guapí Popayan                                                                                                      del Guaviare                                                  Brujas
                                                                                       San Vicente
                                                                     Garzon            del Caguán
                                                                                                                                              Calamar
                    Patía
      Tumaco




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Neg
                                                                     Florencia                                                        G U AV I A R E
                NARIÑO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   San Rafael
                                                                                                                                        Miraflores                               Mitu
                             Pasto
                                                                                      Cagu




                                                   Mocoa                                                                                                               Vau
                                                                                                                                                                           pés
                                                                                          án




                                                                                                                                                                                                 Yavarate
                      To
                               Ipiales    PUTUM                                                CAQUET?                                                               VA U P É S
                                         Puerto              AY
                    Ibarra
                                           Asis                     O                                                                Macujer
                                                                                                    Puerto
                                                                                                    Huitoto
0°N                                                                                        Puerto                                                                                                                                                 0°N
                                                                                           Leguízamo                       Puerto                                           Lérida
               E C U A DOR                                                                                                 Pizarro
                                                                                                                                                        Caq
                                                                                                                                                           u   etá
                                                                                                                                        Puerto
                                                                                                                                     Santander
                                                                                                                                                                         Locas de
                                                                                                                Ptu                                                      Cahuinari
                                                                                                                    ma
                                                                                                                       y
        CO LOMB I A
                                                                                                                           o                                                            La Pedrera
                                                                                                                                                    AMAZONAS
                                                                                                                                 El Encanto

               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                              BRA ZI L
               DEPARTMENT CAPITALS

               NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                 PERU
               RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                    This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         World Bank. The boundaries,
               MAIN ROADS                                                 0            80                 160                  240         320 Kilometers                                                                colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         any other information shown
               RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                 on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Leticia                 the part of The World Bank
                                                                          0           40          80            120             160        200 Miles                                                                     Group, any judgment on the
               DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         or any endorsement or
               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                  acceptance of such
                                                                              75°W                                                                                                      70°W                             boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FEBRUARY 2009
