Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H289 - SL 
 
Financing Agreement 
(Amending and Restating Development Grant Agreement) 
 
(Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 11, 2007  
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H289 - SL 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
(Amending and Restating Development Grant Agreement) 
AGREEMENT dated July 11, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
SIERRA LEONE (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”).   
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement dated February 28, 2003, between the 
Association and the Recipient (“Development Grant Agreement”), the Association agreed 
to provide the Recipient with a grant in an amount equivalent to fifteen million one 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,100,000) to assist in financing the 
Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project described in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Grant Agreement;  
(B) 
the Recipient has requested the Association to provide additional 
financial assistance in support of the Health Sector Reconstruction and Development 
Project by increasing the amount made available under the Development Grant 
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million three hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,300,000); and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing 
to extend such additional assistance to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;  
NOW THEREFORE the Recipient and the Association hereby agree to amend 
and restate the Development Grant Agreement to read as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
twenty million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,400,000) 
(“Financing”) which consist of: (a) an original amount in various currencies 
equivalent to fifteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 15,100,000) (the Initial Grant); and (b) an additional amount in various 
currencies equivalent to five million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 5,300,000) (the Additional Grant), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).   
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Health and 
Sanitation in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions.  
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V — TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
The Minister of Finance 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 Ministerial 
Building 
 George 
Street 
 
Freetown, Sierra Leone 
 
Facsimile Number:  232 22 228 472 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Freetown, Republic of Sierra Leone, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
 
By  /s/  John O. Benjamin  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/  Christopher Juan Costain 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient to: (i) restore the essential 
functions of its health care delivery system; and (ii) strengthen both public and private 
health sector capacities, so as to improve the efficiency and responsiveness of the health 
sector to the needs of the population. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A:
Restoring Essential Health Services
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of MOHS to deliver adequate health services in the 
Priority Districts through: 
(a) 
rehabilitation of four (4) first referral hospitals and twelve (12) health 
centers, including construction of essential staff quarters; and 
(b) 
acquisition of Health Sector Goods, other furniture, equipment and 
vehicles for the above mentioned hospitals and health centers and for 
fifty (50) health posts. 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of MOHS to combat malaria and TB and to improve 
sanitation, through:  
(a) 
acquisition and distribution of insecticide-treated bed-nets;  
(b) 
facilitation of training for health workers;  
(c) 
establishment of a sentinel surveillance system for monitoring anti-
malarial drug treatment efficacy;  
(d) 
strengthening of laboratory diagnostic capacity at health facilities 
through provision of equipment and supplies and facilitation of training 
of laboratory staff;  
(e) 
supervision of clinical staff;  
Page  7
6
(f) 
procurement of reserve stocks of drugs;  
(g) 
carrying out of operational research on approaches to improve case 
management; and  
(h) 
acquisition of office equipment and supplies.
 
3. 
Provision of clinical and related services including waste management. 
4. 
Strengthening the capacity of MOHS to control and prevent the spread of 
onchocerciasis disease through:
 
(a) 
acquisition and distribution of drugs; 
(b) 
acquisition of  office equipment and furniture;  
(c) 
carrying out of community sensitization;  
(d) 
facilitation of training; and  
(e) 
carrying out operational research, and monitoring and evaluation. 
5. 
Strengthening the capacity of MOHS to control and prevent the spread of HPAI 
and other influenza pandemics through:
 
(a) 
establishment of sentinel sites;  
(b) 
acquisition of provision of laboratory equipment; and  
(d) 
facilitation of training. 
Part B:
Strengthening Public and Private Sector Capacity
1.          (a) 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to district health 
staff in planning, supervision, monitoring and evaluation and financial 
management, for the improvement of the performance of District Health 
Management Teams within the Recipient’s districts. 
Page  8
7
(b) 
Enhancing the ability of districts to respond to unplanned-for health 
sector activities, including emergencies, disease outbreaks, and 
supervision, through the provision of funding for operational 
expenditures. 
2. 
Strengthening of key MOHS management functions, including: (i) planning, 
information monitoring and statistics; (ii) donor/NGO coordination; (iii) human 
resources development; and (iv) financial management and procurement, through 
the provision of technical advisory services and training, and the acquisition of 
equipment.  
3. 
Enhancing Private Sector participation in the health sector through: 
(a) 
carrying out consultations and developing regulations to foster the 
participation by the Private Sector in the delivery of quality health 
services; 
(b) 
carrying out studies on privatization and contracting out; 
(c) 
provision of incentives to potential Private Sector entities, and  
(d) 
provision of technical assistance and training to selected Private Sector 
participants. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
MOHS shall be responsible for overseeing the implementation, financial 
management, procurement, audit, supervision and monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that: 
(a) 
MOHS shall maintain for the duration of the Project: (i) a Project 
director, who shall be the Director General of Medical Services of 
MOHS; and (ii) a Project coordinator, who shall be the Director of 
Planning of MOHS, both with qualifications and experience acceptable 
to the Association. 
(b) 
MOHS shall maintain for the Project a procurement unit with suitably 
qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers. 
3. 
The Recipient shall maintain within each Priority District, District Health 
Management Teams, which shall be responsible for coordinating Project 
implementation activities within the Priority Districts, including: (a) developing 
action plans and district budgets; (b) establishing contact with selected Private 
Sector entities and coordinating Project activities that involve them; 
(c) evaluating the necessity within their districts for Discretionary Funding based 
on criteria set out in the Project Implementation Plan; and (d) liaising with 
MOHS on the supervision and monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
B.
 
Project Implementation Plan
 
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in 
the Project Implementation Plan, which gives details of the operational 
guidelines and procedures agreed between the Recipient and the Association for 
the implementation, supervision and monitoring and evaluation of the Project, 
and includes: 
Page  10
9
(a) 
A procurement plan, which contains a global procurement plan covering 
the entire Project, a program of work and a detailed procurement plan for 
the first year of the Project. 
(b) 
An operational manual, which contains the administrative procedures 
and guidelines for the Project, performance indicators and monitoring 
and evaluation guidelines. 
(c) 
An accounting manual, which contains the accounting and financial 
procedures and the disbursement arrangements for the Project. 
2. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or 
waive any provision of the Project Implementation Plan, if such amendment or 
waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. Safeguards
 
1. 
The Recipient shall implement the Environmental Management Plan in a manner 
designed to ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with sound 
environmental practices and standards, satisfactory to the Association. 
2. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
take all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible any 
involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to 
productive assets or income or means of livelihood, temporarily or 
permanently arising from the implementation of the Project; and 
(b) 
for this purpose, implement, and cause to be implemented, the 
Resettlement Policy Framework in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Page  11
10
3. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, the 
implementation of the Environmental Management Plan and the 
Resettlement Policy Framework; 
(b) 
include the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities in each 
Project Report referred to in Section II below, together with any 
revisions proposed to be introduced into such plan and framework in 
order to achieve their respective objectives; and 
(c) 
introduce such revisions into the Environmental Action Plan and the 
Resettlement Policy Framework as shall have been agreed to with the 
Association. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, 
and shall be furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of 
the period covered by such report.  
2. 
The performance indicators referred to above in paragraph 1 consist of the 
following:   
(a) At least 50 health posts in the Priority Districts are fully equipped as 
specified in the Project Implementation Plan. 
(b) At least 4 district hospitals in the Priority Districts have been rehabilitated 
and fully equipped as specified in the Project Implementation Plan. 
(c) Percentage of population within one mile radius from the nearest primary 
health unit in the Priority Districts increase from 41% in 2004 to at least 
60% in 2007. 
Page  12
11
(d) Twelve (12) primary health facilities fully rehabilitated and equipped in 
the Priority Districts. 
(e) Percentage of children aged 12-23 months completely immunized is at 
least 75%. 
(f)  The number of insecticide-treated bed nets purchased under the project and 
distributed to the population exceeds 160,000. 
(g) At least 15 laboratories are capable of performing malaria microscopy in 
the territory of the Recipient. 
(h) The percentage of children under five years of age in the Priority Districts 
who sleep regularly under insecticide-treated bed nets, is at least 40%. 
(i) The percentage of pregnant women in the Priority Districts who sleep 
regularly under insecticide-treated bed nets is at least 40%. 
(j)  The percentage of TB smear-positive cases successfully treated under the 
directly observed treatment strategy in the Priority Districts is at least 85%. 
(k) The proportion of new TB smear-positive cases detected in the four 
priority districts is at least 50%. 
(l) At least 50% of primary health units in the four priority districts have 
either an incinerator or a burning pit. 
(m) Therapeutic coverage of Ivermectin nationwide increase from 0% in 2005 
to at least 60%. 
(n) Increase in geographic coverage of community-directed Ivermectin 
distribution from 0% in 2005 to 70%. 
(o) The number of health workers trained on surveillance of Avian Influenza 
increased from 0 in 2006 to 250. 
Page  13
12
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than 
one month after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project 
Preparation Advance was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the 
end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Page  14
13
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Limited International Bidding 
(b)  National Competitive Bidding 
(c)  Shopping 
(d)  Direct Contracting 
(e)  Procurement from United Nations Agencies 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
parag
raph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Least Cost Selection 
(b)  Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications 
(c)  Selection of Individual Consultants  
(d)  Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
Page  15
14
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Initial Grant 
Allocated 
 (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent) 
Amount of the 
Additional Grant 
Allocated 
 (Expressed in 
SDR 
Equivalent) 
 
%
of 
 Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(1) Civil works 
3,400,000 
2,020,000 
100% 
 
(2) Goods, including 
 
Pharmaceuticals 
4,600,000 1,550,000 
 
100% 
 
(3) Consultants’ 
 
services, training 
 
and audit fees 
 
4,000,000 1,540,000 
100% 
 
(4) Operating Costs 
2,100,000 
92,500 
100% 
 
(5) Refunding of 
 
Project Preparation 
 
Advance 
 
450,000 0 
Amount 
payable 
pursuant to section 
2.07 of the General 
Conditions 
Page  16
15
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Initial Grant 
Allocated 
 (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent) 
Amount of the 
Additional Grant 
Allocated 
 (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent) 
 
%
of 
 Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(6) Unallocated 
 
550,000 
 
97,500 
 
TOTAL 
________ 
15,100,000 
======== 
________ 
5,300,000 
 
======== 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of the Development Grant 
Agreement.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is August 31, 2009. 
 
Page  17
16
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
“Additional Grant” means the additional financing in various currencies 
equivalent to five million three hundred Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,300,000) 
provided to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“DOTS” means Direct Observed Treatment Short-course, a strategy promoted by 
the World Health Organization to control tuberculosis. 
6. 
“District Health Management Teams” means the teams set up by MOHS (as 
hereinafter defined) within each district, to be responsible for, among other 
things, preparing annual district budgets, planning, financial management, 
disbursements and supervision of MOHS (as hereinafter defined) activities 
within each district. 
7. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan dated November 2002, 
prepared by the Recipient and referred to in Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of 
the Project, including plans for medical waste management and solid waste 
management, as well as the administrative and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure the implementation of said plan, as such plan may be revised from time to 
time with the agreement of the Association. 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
Page  18
17
9. 
“Health Sector Goods” means Pharmaceuticals (as hereinafter defined), medical 
and medical support equipment and ambulances. 
10. 
“HIV/AIDS” means Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus/Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome. 
11. 
“HPAI” means highly pathogenic avian influenza.
 
12. 
“IEC” means Information, Education and Communication activities. 
13. 
“Initial Grant” means the initial financing in various currencies equivalent to 
fifteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,100,000) 
provided to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the 
Development Grant Agreement. 
14. 
“MOHS” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health and Sanitation. 
15. 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization operating under the laws of the 
Recipient. 
16. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs arising under the 
Project on account of Project office rental, materials and supplies; vehicle 
operation, maintenance and repair; equipment rental and maintenance; utilities 
and communication expenses; and, travel expenditures and other travel-related 
allowances; but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service.  
17. 
“Pharmaceuticals” means drugs, vaccines, reagents, contraceptives, micro-
nutrients and/or condoms. 
18. 
“Priority Districts” means the Recipient’s districts of Bombali, Koinadugu, Kono 
and Moyamba, identified and selected by the Recipient for purposes of this 
Project. 
19. 
“Private Sector” means Private Sector entities operating under the laws of the 
Recipient, including, but not limited to, NGOs, religious leaders, local 
communities, companies and groups of people or organizations, which/who are 
involved in health sector related activities and which/who are participating in or 
may participate in activities under the Project. 
Page  19
18
20. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
21. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 19, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
22. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of 
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to 
the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on May 29, 2002 and on 
behalf of the Recipient on July 8, 2002. 
23. 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan referred to in Section I.B.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time in 
agreement with the Association, and such term includes an operational manual, 
an accounting manual, a procurement plan and any other schedules to the Project 
Implementation Plan.
 
24. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the policy framework dated October 
2002, prepared by the Recipient and referred to in Section I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, which sets out the principles and procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of displaced persons, 
as well as administrative, reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
compliance with the framework as such framework may be revised from time to 
time with the agreement of the Association. 
25. 
“TB” means Tuberculosis.  
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the 
Association, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
Section 3.01 (b) of the General Conditions is modified to read as follows 
“
(b) 
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after: (i) the 
date of the Development Grant Agreement with respect to the unwithdrawn 
balance of the Initial Grant; and (ii) the date of the Financing Agreement with 
respect to the unwithdrawn balance of the Additional Grant, to the respective 
Page  20
19
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Recipient from the Financing 
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall accrue at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rate as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to this Section. The rate set as of 
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next Payment Date in that year. 
The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each 
Payment Date. The Commitment Charge shall be computed on the basis of a 360-
day year of twelve 30-
day months.”
 
