Report No. 23449
Report No: I074128 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/04/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: SIERRA LEONE    Project ID: P074128
Project: Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project     Task Team
Leader: Astrid Helgeland-Lawson
Appraisal Date: July 5, 2002     IBRD Amount ($m):
Board Date: December 18, 2002    IDA Amount ($m): 20.00
Managing Unit: AFTH2     Sector: HB - Basic Health
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project overall development objective would be to restore the most
essential functions of the health delivery system. The project will also
help achieve more specific objectives:
(a) To increase the access to affordable essential health services. This
specific objective will aim at the rehabilitation of primary and first
referral health facilities in districts and will also include the
provision of adequate human resources for the sector and the collection of
essential data needed for sound sector rehabilitation.
(b) To strengthen sector capacity, improve efficiency and further
decentralize decision making to districts.
(c) To support the development of the private health sector and the
involvement of the civil society in decision making.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Component 1: Restoring Essential Health Services.
The weaknesses of the public and private health delivery system at the end
of many years of war and economic decline, the staggering health needs of
the population in the post-conflict stage and the phasing out of
international NGOs assistance to the health sector provide a compelling
rationale to this component. The gradual "normalization" of the situation
in most districts makes it now feasible. The main thrust of this HSRDP
component is the restoration of the delivery of essential services at
health post, health center and first referral hospital levels in four
districts of the country. The selection of the four districts will be
based on criteria such as the importance for the peace and resettlement
process, health needs, health delivery weaknesses (e.g., destruction of
public facilities and reduced access to other health care providers) and
the lack of funding from other sources (i.e., Government and other donors
or financiers). The provision of essential services by health posts and
health centers is important, as it will help the most populous communities
and chiefdoms in the four districts to solve the majority of their health
needs, will contribute to the peace and resettlement process and will
increase the relevance and efficiency at the first referral level. The
hospitals (all first referral hospitals of about 50-60 beds each) are also
very important since they deliver essential surgical care (in Sierra
Leone, the health centers are not staffed with physicians and do not
deliver surgical services) and other services such as prosthetic and
psychological/psychiatric care. It is, therefore, at this level that
complicated pregnancies and emergency cases could receive obstetrical and
surgical assistance, amputees, women and children with psychological



trauma could received prosthetic and psychological support (the other
alternative being to refer the patients to the tertiary hospitals in
Freetown) etc.
The project will finance:
(a) Equipment, drugs, vaccines, furniture, training and supervision needed
for the adequate functioning of 50 health posts to be built with support
from the IDA funded Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project;
(b) Support to restore the delivery of services in 12 health centers in
the four participating districts;
(c) Support to restore the delivery of services in four first referral
hospitals of the same four districts; and
(d) Support to maintain adequate health care delivery in these health
facilities, including measures to foster private services development and
to solve human resources issues in the participating districts.
It will be particularly important for an effective service delivery to
finance "packages" including not only the works and equipment needed for
each site but also water, sewage, incinerators, essential staff quarters,
training, communication means and ambulances. A particular attention will
be paid to health facility waste management and to related IEC activities
for health providers. As all these activities will be carried out at sites
already available, this component will not imply any resettlement of the
population.
NB It is worth mentioning that while maintenance, drug procurement, stock
management and drug distribution will be strengthened at the central level
with others' partners support (e.g., the Central Medical Stores and the
MOHS drug and maintenance programs will be assisted by AfDB and EU), IDA
will contribute in a concrete manner, in the four participating districts,
by funding drugs, condoms and other contraceptives, consumables, vaccines,
spare parts and other non-salary recurrent expenditures.
Likewise, IDA support, at central level (see the second component of the
proposed credit) targets only some key technical and support programs (and
not all of them, as several have already obtained other donors'
assistance). Nonetheless, in the four participating districts, IDA will
support the delivery of essential preventive and curative care, thus being
able to contribute to the improvement and expansion of all major public
health programs. For instance, the Reproductive health program being
already supported by WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA and bilaterals was not included
among the key technical programs to receive IDA assistance at central
level. However, if and when needed, IDA will support the respective
activities in the four participating districts.
Component 2: Strengthening Public and Private Sector Capacity.
The HSRDP will finance activities to:
(a) Strengthen private sector capacity and the participation of civil
society in the health sector.
This subcomponent will help develop incentives for private health
providers, with focus on not-for-profit providers, to develop services in
the four districts supported by the project. It will also include
-2 -



contracting out services to private providers and support for a wider
participation of the civil society in decision-making on health matters.
Services to be contracted out will include both non-clinical services
(such as management, procurement, maintenance, works and technical
assistance) and clinical services (such as laboratory and medical
services). In order to ensure complementarity and avoid to crowd out
private practices (by developing public facilities in areas in which
private providers are already present or might be interested to establish
themselves), the MOHS will include among the criteria used to plan public
health facilities the existence of private facilities. Another thrust of
this subcomponent will be to enact regulation to foster private sector
development and the provision of quality, affordable services. The
current work to involve and coordinate international and national NGOs
will be expanded, and NGO participation in the decision-making
strengthened with the opportunity of annual sector review and planning
exercises. The update of the health sector policy, scheduled to take
place during project preparation, will provide a first opportunity to make
clearer and to strengthen the role of (i) the public sector in service
delivery and (ii) the civil society in decision-making in the health
sector. The two beneficiary assessments supported from the proposed
credit will also explore users' satisfaction with the private and public
delivery of health services. Furthermore, the credit will support the
involvement of community and religious leaders, women and, more generally
of the civil society, in decision-making at central and district levels
and in health facilities.
(b) Improve the performance of key programs targeting the most important
public health problems such as: Malaria, TB, Onchocerciasis, STI/HIV/AIDS
and Sanitation. In Sierra Leone, similar to other countries of the
region, these programs are executed in an integrated manner by the
district health teams. It is worth noting that in spite of a seemingly
"verticalization" at central level (since MOHS maintains oversight and
develops appropriate policies through its technical programs) the
technical programs are part of the Program 7 (Primary Health Care) and are
all coordinated by the Director of PHC/Deputy Director General of medical
services. The project will finance: (i) Malaria control activities,
focusing on strengthening of case management and on the promotion and
distribution of insecticide-treated bed-nets (to be distributed and
re-impregnated with local NGO support); (ii) Laboratories, training, and
logistic support for the implementation of the DOTS TB control strategy;
(iii) Onchocerciasis control activities (if the onchocerciasis programs
will not be funded from other sources such as APOC or other grants) such
as drug (ivermectin) distribution and supervision; (iv) STI/HIV/AIDS
control activities belonging to the health sector such as blood safety,
voluntary and anonymous HIV diagnostic and counseling, treatment of
opportunistic infections, training of health providers on HIV/AIDS
patients needs, ethical issues, possible environmental impact of HIV
contaminated health facility waste, etc. It is understood that all these
activities will, at first, be financed from the freestanding SHARP
HIV/AIDS project, as this project will become effective before the HSRDP.
However, at one point in time (optimally at the HSRDP MTR) these
activities will be transferred to the HSRDP credit; (v) Sanitation
measures (solid waste management mostly) in the four districts supported
by the project and in the capital city (as opposed the IHSIP support which
targeted the Freetown area).
-3-



c) Strengthen the decentralization of decision making and improve the
performance of district health teams. This sub-component will be a
continuation and expansion of the support to districts started under the
current IHSIP project (e.g., the current project has provided
discretionary funds to the districts meeting the criteria for adequate
financial management and also supported the districts with drugs and
equipment). District health teams will be assisted to improve operations
and will be encouraged to include the civil society in the decision making
process at district and health facility levels. The support from the
project would be channeled through the annual planning exercise (to which
the district plans are expected to increase their contribution).
d) Strengthen the MOHS key support programs:    Human Resources Development
(HRD), Planning & Monitoring, Financial management, Procurement and
Donor/NGO coordination. These key support programs have been selected
taking into account not only their contribution to MOHS performance but
also the fact that HSRDP will be implemented by the MOHS services without
setting up a project coordination unit. The HRD program is particularly
relevant at this stage as its mandate is to address one of the most urgent
issues during the post-conflict period, i.e., the lack of qualified health
providers Staff losses --by attrition, brain drain, insufficient
training-have been substantial and become a major stumbling block in the
efforts to restore the function of the public sector. In spite of the
scarcity of quantified data on human resources, there is general agreement
that there are important unmet needs in all personnel categories and that
the lack of specialized physicians is most worrisome (because of its
dimension, the fact that training specialist physicians is a long and
expensive process often subjected to severe brain drain and because the
country has no capacity in this area). The project will support the
design and printing of textbooks and other materials to be used by the
health personnel, formative supervision, the setting up of a computerized
health personnel data base and the development of a Human Resources
Strategy and Development Plan. Based on the findings and the strategic
decision taken (such as to strengthen local undergraduate medical training
and nursing schools, to use teams of specialists from other countries to
perform specialized treatment in hospitals, to intensify training abroad,
to authorize treatment overseas for some specific conditions, to
capitalize on local NGO experience and to encourage religious NGOs to
resume activities, to devolve some of the medical tasks to nurses and
midwifes and/or to retrain some of the general practitioners to perform
essential obstetrics and surgery services, to rely on the private sector,
etc.), the project will support training cost, the strengthening of
training institutions or other activities as appropriate. Further, the
project will support the development of an incentive system to reward good
performance and work in difficult areas.
IDA assistance to the other support programs, i.e., Planning & Monitoring,
Financial management, Procurement and Donor/NGO coordination, will mainly
consist of providing technical assistance, and, in case of the persistence
of a weak budget allocation from the public budget, of contributing
towards recurrent non-salary expenditures of these programs.
Additionally, this subcomponent will finance the two mandatory beneficiary
assessments of the credit and part of the cost of a Demographic and Health
Survey.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
- 4 -



environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Throughout Sierra Leone
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The proposed project does not raise any major environmental or
social issues. Project activities are specifically designed to strengthen
and to enhance the awareness of health issues and preventive measures to
avoid transmission of infectious diseases and to protect the environment
of the risk of contamination from medical waste.
The Health project will finance the activities of the Ministry of Health
and Sanitation (MOHS). The MOHS's Division of Sanitation is already
supported by the current health project (e.g., heavy equipment for solid
waste management mostly for the city of Freetown was procured, etc.) and
it is performing reasonably well. The new health project will continue to
support solid waste management activities in Freetown and, in parallel
with the stabilization of the situation in districts, in district capital
cities (where the first referral hospitals are located). This will
include IEC for the workers involved in garbage collection and the like.
This health project will also build small incinerators and water wells in
health facilities rehabilitated with IDA money and also finance IEC for
health providers and the population. The project will also finance
malaria (basically by expanding the Impregnated Bednets Strategy) and
onchocerciasis control activities (based on ivermectin distribution).
Vector control activities are not foreseen at this stage to receive IDA
support.
The HIV/AIDS project that is being prepared in paralell to the health
project deals with the specific issues of IEC for the health providers to
improve their knowledge on how to reduce the risks of getting
contaminated, of spreading the infection within health facilities, of
using contaminated blood and the like. Very importantly, the health
providers of the Lakka TB hospital (a facility that will receive AIDS
patients in the future and is already taking care of TB/HIV and TB/AIDS
patients) will be targeted with priority.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
- 5-



If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Potential impact related to rehabilitation activities, provision of water
and sanitation.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Potential impact related to improper waste management.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
TBD
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
TBD
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The MOHS has already established a large participatory review and planning
process which includes district personnel, donors, international and local
NGOs. This process will continue in the future and will be used to reach
agreement on the new project and also to assess its performance and
allocate funds during project implementation. Beneficiary assessments
will also be carried out.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
- 6 -



(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Astrid Helgeland-Lawson 01/02/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Serigne Omar Fye/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye         01/03/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Alexandre V. Abrantes    01/02/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\January 11, 2002\I074128.txt
January 7, 2002 10:56 AM
-7-



