Report No. PID10711
Project Name             SIERRA LEONE-HEALTH SECTOR RECONST.(@) ...
& DEVELOP.
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Health (100%)
Project ID               P074128
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND
SANITATION
Address: Ministry of Health and
Sanitation, 4th Floor, Youyi Building,
Freetown, Sierra Leone
Contact Person: Dr. Noah Conteh,
Director General of Medical Services
Dr. Clifford Kamara, Director of
Planning, Information and Statistics
Tel: (232) 22242119/22240068
Fax: (232) 22241527
Email: cwkamara@sierratel.sl
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        November 6, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      November 7, 2002
Bank Approval Date       February 20, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
At the end of a decade of war, political and social instability, and
deterioration of the economic performance of an otherwise well-endowed
country, the health sector in Sierra Leone is facing many issues.
a) The health status of the population is, compared with other SSA
countries, critical; it is estimated that life expectancy at birth is only
43 years, and infant, under-five and maternal mortality rates are as high
as 170, 286 and 18 per 1000 live births respectively. The country is
plagued by diseases for which cost-effective interventions are available
but are not being used due to: (i) problems with resources of all kinds
(financial, infrastructure and especially human resources); (ii) weak
sector capacity, and; (iii) limited access to some geographical areas
because of the security situation (until very recently), poor roads and
inadequate communications. Among these diseases are malaria,
tuberculosis, leprosy, acute respiratory diseases, diarrhea, Lassa fever,
onchocerciasis, and cholera and other water borne diseases. Also,
compared with neighboring countries, the HIV/AIDS epidemic is more
significant; the prevalence rate of HIV sero-positivity is now estimated
at about 4.9w (the CDC Atlanta base line survey of 2002) and may reach 18t
in some groups (e.g., military). As a result of war atrocities, the
country was left with thousands of amputees; a huge number of
psychologically affected people (mostly women among whom many were raped
and/or lost their children and families; and children who are orphaned or



living away from their parents. Fertility rates are also high as a result
of insufficient use of contraception, particularly in rural areas.
Lastly, malnutrition is widely spread among children and lactating mothers
and contributes significantly to the high mortality rates cited above.
b) The health delivery system is operating poorly. During the conflict,
the country is estimated to have lost more than 50t of health facilities
and the remaining facilities need rehabilitating, re-equipping, new staff,
and technical and financial support. While the recent conflict
exacerbated the situation by destroying health facilities and displacing
(or worse) staff, the public health sector has not performed well for more
than a decade; with inadequate financing, MOHS could not supervise and
support technically the public health facilities country-wide. Further,
the destruction of the infrastructure of other sectors affected, and
continues to affect, the health sector's operations since communications,
transport, electricity, water supply, etc., were also severely disrupted.
Many international and local NGOs specialized in providing health care
during conflict and in post-conflict situations have successfully
delivered services to the districts in which the public health facilities
were not able to operate. In addition, NGOs are contributing
substantially to alleviating psychological suffering and providing
physical rehabilitation to amputees. As a result of the progress in peace
negotiations and increased security, these NGOs are now in the process of
phasing out their aid programs. Other NGOs (and particularly the
religious NGOs), which had previously played an important role in the
delivery of health care in rural areas, suffered severe damage in the war
(of 47 mission facilities in operation before the 1997 coup, only 20 are
currently functioning), the mission hospitals have lost their expatriate
medical staff, and the current free drug policy (applied in some
government facilities and by the large international NGOs) is drawing
patients away from their clinics which continue to use cost recovery (and
to also successfully exempt the poor from it).
The private for profit health system, although recently developing,
remains weak and limited to the Western Region and the capital city.
This makes restoration of a functioning public health sector a crucial
priority for the country.   At present the most important challenges for
the public health sector are to find solutions for:
(a) the lack of infrastructure, especially in the districts most affected
by war;
(b) the limited administrative capacity of the public sector and its
persistent inefficiencies;
(c) the lack of human resources (resulting from (i) staff attrition, (ii)
inadequate training (undergraduate, postgraduate and continuous on the job
training), (iii) emigration of medical doctors (in particular, of
specialized physicians) to developed countries; (iv) distorted
geographical distribution of health workers (during the war the health
providers left the unsafe zones and came to work in Freetown); and the
lack of skill and motivation of the remaining health personnel.
(d) the lack of capacity of the private for profit health sector and its
inability (or unwillingness) to address major public health problems.
- 2 -



Health Status Indicators
Source of data: MICS 2 Survey 2000
Indicators      Latest estimated value
Infant mortality rate    170 per 1000 live births
Under-five mortality rate        286 per 1000 live births
Maternal mortality rate 1800 per 100,000 live births
Underweight prevalence in children under 5 years of age 27.2w
Stunting prevalence in children under 5 years of age      33.9w
Wasting prevalence in children under 5 years of age 9.8w
Population with access to safe drinking water    54.0w
Population with access to safe excreta disposal means     63.1w
Antenatal care   68.0k of pregnant women received at least one consultation
Deliveries attended by skilled personnel         41.7w
Contraceptive prevalence rate (modern contraception)      3.9w
Births weight below 2.5 Kg       52.5w
Iodized salt consumption         23.4w of households
Children receiving vitamin A supplementation     58.2w
Mothers receiving vitamin A supplementation       32.6w
Breast feeding (exclusive of other foods) of children under 4 months of age
2.4t
Complementary feeding of children aged 4 to 9 months      52.5w of children 4-9 months
old are receiving breast milk and complementary food
Immunization rates in children 12 to 23 months of age     DPT: 45.5%; measles:
61.7%; TB: 61,2% and polio:72.89
Neonatal tetanus immunization of pregnant women 57.7%
Use of Oral Rehidration Therapy 86.1%
Acute respiratory infections treated     50.2%
Impregnated bednets used by children under 5 years of age         1.5%
Malaria treatment in children under 5 years of age        60.9%
Knowledge on HIV/AIDS prevention and misconceptions       21.1% and 19.0%
Data quality is affected by sample size and sampling techniques
limitations. For instance regarding the maternal mortality the MICS-2 can
only say that, with 95% probability, the MMR is not smaller than 1000 and
not bigger than 2600 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births. More
accurate data will only be available later on with: (i) the opportunity of
a DHS (scheduled for 2003) and of specialized surveys (such as the HIV
sero-positivity survey scheduled for 2002) and, gradually, (ii) the
resuming of the health facility data collection and reporting system.
c) The health sector's capacity to manage health service delivery was
considerably weakened, and the decentralization of decision-making halted
in recent years. During the period 1993-1996, the MOHS prepared a
comprehensive sector reform and service delivery program, which was
outlined in documents such as the 1993 National Health Policy, the 1994
National Health Action Plan (NHAP) and the 1995 NHAP Core program. At the
time, GOSL (using performance indicators and qualitative information)
ranked health as the best performing public sector of the country; in more
recent years, MOHS' performance has also been ranked very high.
Recognizing these efforts, the World Bank agreed to develop a project to
support the sector-wide program of the GOSL, the Integrated Health Sector
Investment Project; credit 2827-SL. Unfortunately, the rebel conflict
(which worsened in 1996 and sporadically thereafter) halted the reforms
and re-focused MOHS's work on solving problems stemming from instability,
loss of resources, an increasing number of displaced persons and refugees,
and a marked deterioration of the health status of the population.
-3 -



Although sector performance was greatly reduced by problems with financial
resources, decrease of staff and looting of premises, the most affected
parts of the system were, without doubt, the district health teams and the
decentralization process.
IHSIP was restructured to provide the financing of activities in response
to the new situation in the country, and remarkably permitted MOHS to
continue functioning during all these years of war. To a large extent
this was possible due to the dedication of the national staff and was
facilitated by the assistance received from the IDA credit to the sector.
Other organizations, such as UNICEF and WHO, have also succeeded in
mobilizing extra budgetary resources and have provided valuable
assistance. Over the past several years, sector capacity has gradually
been re-established. In August 1999 the sector was able to resume the
annual review and planning meeting with donors and NGOs, and launched the
national immunization days. District health personnel, among which many
have functioned mostly due to the support from international NGOs,
attended these meetings. A decision was taken to increase the support to
districts from the public budget and donors and, in addition, to also make
available funds from the current IDA credit. In November 2000 the annual
program review and planning meeting for the year 2001 was held with an
even more active participation of NGOs, donors and district staff.
Continuing this positive trend, at the beginning of the year 2001, the
health districts meeting the criteria for satisfactory financial
management and accounting practices received funding for their most urgent
needs, conducting supervision or training from the current IDA project.
During the same year the AfDB declared effective its credit and, in 2002,
EU has intensified project preparation activities aiming at providing
support to the health sector by early 2003.
Government Strategy: In the past years (1993-1995) the MOHS strategy was:
(a) to rehabilitate health facilities using resources pledged by donors,
and; (b) to further develop and reform the sector by means of a
sector-wide program (i.e., the NHAP Core program) financed by the GOSL and
by MOHS's traditional partners (such as WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA, Saudi Fund for
Development, the Islamic Development Bank, the European Union, AfDB and
IDA). During this period the Government's overall goals were to "improve
social conditions and alleviate poverty along with sustained economic
growth." In the health sector, the sector policy was translated into a
five-year sector-wide program (NHAP) originally estimated at about US$270
million but downsized to US$138 million (NHAP Core program) after a more
realistic analysis of the sector's financing capacity and absorption
limitations. The main thrusts of the NHAP were to develop a sound health
delivery system and to staff it adequately, promote environmental health
and communicable disease control, foster community participation,
decentralize services at district level, improve sector financing;
privatize certain services and enhance international collaboration. To
this sector-wide program, IDA contributed US$20 million through the
Integrated Health Sector Investment Project, which was one of the first
sector-wide operations in the Region. Starting in 1996, when the war and
insecurity worsened, the MOHS has aimed to provide expanded health
services to the increasingly large populations in safe areas (basically
the Western Region) with reduced financial and material resource. Through
1999 the sector operated on the basis of Quarterly Emergency Plans, until
the regular mechanism (set up in 1995) of reviewing sector performance and
- 4 -



planning for the following fiscal year was reinstated. This participatory
planning process continued and was improved during the October 2000 and
2001 planning sessions and in particular in 2002.
GOSL, taking into account the progress in peace negotiations and the
overall improvement of the security situation is currently updating the
health sector policy. The new policy is two pronged and aims at: (i)
re-establishing the provision of health services, and (ii) gradually
strengthening the sector capacity to deliver services by decentralizing
decision making, re-instating cost-recovery (in a manner that will
preserve the affordability of drugs and services), and by improving sector
management to obtain efficiency gains. The implementation of this new
policy would be supported by the proposed IDA credit.
2. Objectives
The project's overall development objective is to help restore the most
essential functions of the health delivery system. The project will also
help achieve the more specific objectives of:
(a) Increasing access to affordable essential health services by improving
primary and first referral health facilities in four districts of the
country.
(b) Improving the performance of key technical programs responsible for
coping with the country's major public health problems.
(c) Strengthening health sector management capacity to improve efficiency
and further decentralize decision-making to the districts.
(d) Supporting development of the private health sector and involvement of
the civil society in decision-making.
The first specific objective is limited in scope to the four districts
which met specific selection criteria (such as importance to the
demobilization, resettlement and peace processes; magnitude of the public
health problems; clear need to rehabilitate the delivery of services,
etc.). Within these four districts, the project focuses on the
rehabilitation of priority health facilities, and on support for the
delivery of affordable and good quality care.
Through its second specific objective, the project will contribute to
reducing the burden of some of the most important infectious diseases
country-wide (i.e., by supporting Malaria and TB control activities, and
the Sanitation program).
The third specific objective aims to improve efficiency and make the
health sector more responsive to the needs of the population by supporting
district health teams country-wide and five key services of the MOHS
(i.e., Human Resources Development; Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation;
Financial Management; Procurement; and Donor and NGO coordination).
The fourth specific objective will improve the quality of services by (i)
promoting development and regulation of the private sector, strengthening
the quality of care and enhancing the contribution of the private sector
to the achievement of public health objectives, (ii) providing incentives
to the health providers to establish practices in rural areas and smaller
cities, (iii) contracting out clinical and non-clinical services with the
private sector, and by (iv) involving the civil society in decision making
- 5-



in the health administration and in health facilities.
While the project must initially focus on the restoration of health
delivery, it will provide increasing support to the reform process in the
health sector (including to cost-recovery and to the set up of mechanisms
to protect the access to services of the poorest population).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's contribution to the health sector in Sierra Leone is much
praised by the Borrower and its development partners. Besides the Bank
support during the war, the Bank has uniquely contributed to sector policy
formulation, sector planning, and capacity-building at both MOHS and
decentralized levels. Very importantly, the Transitional Support Strategy
for Sierra Leone defines clearly the Bank support to this country and also
makes projections on the economic growth in the years to come. The
proposed project would allow this assistance to continue and to grow. It
would also contribute to poverty reduction in Sierra Leone through HSRDP
focus on the poor and under-served populations. IDA funding would
complement other donors' funding to the programs dealing with major public
health problems and of a greater benefit to the poor population such as
PHC, malaria, TB, and sanitation. The HSRDP would also help achieve some
of the reform and development objectives of the IHSIP project (as
mentioned, IHSIP was restructured to better respond to the crisis
situation in the sector and could not achieve some of its initial
objectives as for instance to develop health services outside the Western
Region and to substantially contribute to the reform process).
4. Description
Component 1: Restoring Essential Health Services.
This component will: (a) provide assistance to four priority districts to
deliver adequate health services and (b) support three priority technical
programs to improve their performance and control infectious diseases of
high public health importance in Sierra Leone (i.e., Malaria, TB and
Sanitation).
1.1 Restoring health service delivery in four priority districts (Bombali,
Koinadugu, Kono, Moyamba). The project will finance equipment, drugs,
vaccines, furniture, training and supervision needed for the adequate
functioning of 50 health posts built with support from the IDA funded
Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project and from other social
fund projects. The project will also finance civil works, equipment,
rehabilitation and upgrading of water distribution and medical waste
disposal systems, essential staff quarters, training, communication means
and ambulances for 12 health centers and four first referral hospitals.
Finally, it will provide support to ensure the delivery of adequate health
care and to solve health provider shortages and other human resources
issues in the participating districts. Particular attention will be paid
to health facility waste management and to related IEC activities for
health providers. As all these activities will be carried out at existing
and operating health facilities (and in addition, for the hospitals within
the hospital compound) this sub-component will therefore not necessitate
land acquisition and will not cause any resettlement of the population or
removal of squatters.
It is worth mentioning that while maintenance and drug availability
- 6 -



(procurement, stock management and distribution) will be strengthened at
the central level with the support of other MOHS's partners (AfDB and EU),
IDA will contribute in a concrete manner in the four participating
districts, by funding drugs, condoms and other contraceptives,
consumables, vaccines, micronutrients and food supplements, spare parts
and other non-salary recurrent expenditures. IDA will also rehabilitate
and equip district drug stores and train the respective personnel.
Likewise, IDA support at central level (see the second sub-component) will
only target some key technical and support programs (and not all of them,
as several have already obtained assistance from other donors). However,
in the four participating districts, IDA will support, to the extent
needed, the delivery of all essential preventive and curative care, thus
being able to contribute to the improvement and expansion of all major
public health programs. For instance, because the Reproductive Health
Program, including Safe Motherhood and Family Planning, Nutrition and
Expanded Program of Immunization are already being supported by WHO,
UNICEF, UNFPA and several bilaterals, these programs were not included
among the technical programs to receive IDA assistance at central level.
However, if and when needed, IDA will support such activities in the four
participating districts.
1.2 Support to priority technical programs.
The project will provide support to improve the performance of the
following programs important for the reduction of three priority public
health problems in Sierra Leone:
(i) Malaria control activities consistent with the RBM strategy and
focusing on the strengthening of case management capacity in public and
nongovernmental facilities, the promotion and distribution of
insecticide-treated bed nets (to be distributed and re-treated with local
NGO support), and strengthening the capacity for monitoring and
supervision;
(ii) TB control activities will include establishing/strengthening
diagnostic laboratory capacity, training of health workers in case
detection and appropriate treatment, and logistic support for the
implementation of the DOTS strategy;
(iii) Sanitation and environmental impact mitigation measures in the four
districts supported by the project. Regarding sanitation, a program of
importance for all infectious disease control programs and for prevention
in general, the project will support activities to be contracted out with
private providers and advocacy for involving the municipalities in the
four districts and communes in waste management (thus redefining the task
of the MOHS from a provider of services to contract management and
environmental monitoring; the ultimate objective of this program will be
to transfer sanitation responsibilities to municipalities and communes).
Regarding environmental impact mitigation the project will finance (a)
medical waste management measures in the 12 health centers and, in
particular, in the four district hospitals to be rehabilitated
(incinerators, lined pits, latrines, including support for their
maintenance and functioning, training of relevant staff and of health
providers), (b) TA for an adequate identification and development of dump
sites (which will also include liquid waste disposal) of the four district
capital cities, (c) transportation means for solid waste and (d)
supervision and monitoring by environmental inspectors of the district
health teams of the four districts. The SHARP project will also support
environmental impact mitigation in the four districts by financing, among
-7 -



others, training of health providers in medical waste issues and
management.
All other priority technical programs of the MOHS will also be supported,
to the extent needed, through HSRDP assistance to the four priority
districts (mentioned above under the sub-component 1.1).
Component 2: Strengthening Public and Private Sector Capacity.
Under this component the HSRDP will support: (a) in all the districts of
the country, the decentralization process by strengthening the District
Health Management Teams (DHMT), improving the decision making process, and
enhancing capacity for appropriate planning, management, financial
management and supervision; (b) essential sector management functions
carried out by five key MOHS units (i.e., Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation, Financial Management, Procurement, Donor & NGO Coordination
and Human Resources Development) to improve efficiency and improve the
administrative performance at the central level and at the periphery; and
(c) initiatives to promote private sector and civil society participation
in the health sector and to develop mechanisms to increase the efficiency,
ensure the equity, and improve the quality of services provided.
2.1 Promote decentralization and improve the performance of District
Health Management Teams.
To support the reforms (currently underway) to decentralize budget
management, the Project would finance training of district level financial
officers and provide discretionary funds to the qualifying districts
(i.e., those meeting the criteria for adequate financial management).
HSRDP funding will be channeled following an already existing mechanism
for district "discretionary" funding established by the IHSIP (i.e., the
districts meeting criteria of sound financial management are eligible, the
funds ought to be used for unplanned activities for which the public
budget is not sufficient such as supervision, emergency operations in case
of infectious disease out-breaks, etc.). Although, only up to a total of
US$0.4 million will be spent for the entire duration of the project for
this type of funding, this sub-component is expected to greatly assist
DHMT to make their own decisions and manage in a hands-on manner problems
unforeseen at the planning stage.
2.2 Strengthen the key MOHS support services, i.e., Human resources
development (HRD), Planning, monitoring and statistics, Financial
management, Procurement and Donor/NGO coordination. The Project would
provide ongoing support for the improvement of staff skill and
performance, and for the implementation of activities of selected key
support services of the MOHS. These key support services have been
selected on the basis of their importance to improving sector efficiency,
insufficient funding from other sources, and the Borrower's intention to
implement the project using MOHS's capacity (and not with a PCU).
Planning, monitoring and statistics. The Project would provide
operational support to meet the department's needs in equipment,
transport, communications, training and technical assistance, and specific
support to: (a) revise and disseminate the national health policy; (b)
reinforce the medium-term planning and operational planning exercises as
well as the annual sector review; and (c) strengthen both routine health
information management and periodic surveys and research. With support
- 8 -



from a PHRD grant, MOHS has revised the 1993 National Health Policy and
adapted it to the current health status of the population and the
situation in the sector. HSRDP will finance the dissemination and public
discussion of the final updated policy. The planning process would be
strengthened by: (i) improving the Planning Department's ability to
collect and analyze information on health sector expenditures; (ii)
revising the planning guidelines to institute a Three-year Rolling Plan
and improve the Annual Operational Planning; and (iii) improving the
planning capabilities of the District Health Management Teams. The
project would continue to support the organization of the annual sector
review. The project would also provide financial support for (i) the
improvement of health information systems at central and district-levels;
(ii) vital registration, and; (c) the execution of selected surveys and
operational research to be determined annually.
Donor/NGO Coordination. Within the framework of MOHS's intention to
develop a new NGO policy with procedures and guidelines for effectively
coordinating and monitoring the activities of NGOs, the project would
finance TA, as well as equipment and modest operating costs. The project
would support current work to involve and coordinate donors, technical
agencies, financing institutions and international and national NGOs and
to expand their participation in the decision-making, among others,
capitalizing on the opportunity of annual sector review and planning
exercises. In addition, the project would finance periodic meetings
between MOHS and its partners as well as the collection and publication of
the annual inventory of donor and NGO interventions in the health sector.
Human Resources Development. The project would support a series of
actions to strengthen human resource management and reduce the shortage of
health service providers. These actions will be closely coordinated with
and complementary to ongoing efforts by WHO and AfDB and particularly by
the proposed EU-financed Health Sector Support Project. Specifically,
HSRDP would strengthen the overall capacity of the Human Resource
Department to implement the Government's Public Service Reform Program,
focusing specifically on providing technical and financial support for:
(i) personnel management through improved personnel record keeping and
(ii) manpower planning through formulation (and subsequent updating) and
implementation of a comprehensive manpower development plan. HRSDP will
also provide support for strengthening training institutions, introducing
specialized or in-service training courses, or other activities as
appropriate.
Finance. The project would provide TA and overall operational support for
the Finance Department to improve its performance, carry out its tasks
related to the FM of the IDA credit and effect improvements in financial
management and control. In addition, the Department will receive
assistance to computerize financial management operations; complete
installation of a system acceptable to the Bank, and train staff.
Procurement. To enhance the capabilities of the Procurement Unit of MOHS,
the project would: (a) strengthen existing systems and procedures for
procurement planning and implementation; and (b) extend these methods for
use in carrying out procurement with GOSL funds. To ensure the continued
development of the Procurement Unit of MOHS, the Project would finance TA
(procurement and architect) and would support additional short-term
-9-



training and improved working conditions for existing staff (i.e.,
furniture, equipment and operating costs).
2.3 Promote development of the private sector and civil society
participation in the health sector.
The project would support initiatives in the following areas of particular
importance to the MOHS:
Public sector/Private sector consultation and development of regulation to
foster quality and participation. The Project would finance consultations
with the private Medical, Dental and Pharmaceutical Associations and
meetings with the Traditional Medicine Association to discuss ways for
strengthening collaboration and registration and accreditation practices
(and other measures to improve quality). Further to these consultations
the project will support the issuance of regulation to promote quality of
services, control tariffs and encourage the development of private health
services and the involvement of private providers in the solving of public
health issues.
Contracting out. Contracting out of clinical and non-clinical services
with the private sector is already envisaged by HSRDP in areas such as
impregnated bed-nets, IEC services, and solid-waste collection by
communities. Substantial financial support to contract out services has
also been foreseen under the HSRDP Component 1, but additional support
could be made available in case of insufficient funding. The Project
would also finance a study on contracting out (or privatizing) other
selected public services (clinical or non-clinical), including drug
procurement and distribution, laboratory services, and laundry.
Incentives for private providers of health services. Given the importance
of attracting the return of religious and other NGOs to develop and
discharge hospital services and equitable cost recovery arrangements
(i.e., protecting the access to services of the poor individuals) in the
under-served geographical areas, the Project would finance specific
incentives, which might include the provision of a drug stock to cover the
needs of the respective facility for one year.
Support to the District Health Development Committees. To encourage the
establishment and functioning of committees (at district and health
facility levels) for involving the population, political and religious
leaders and, more generally, the civil society in the decision making on
health matters, the Project would provide financial resources for their
operations. While the emphasis would be on the four IDA-financed
districts, the Project would provide support to the PHC program of the
MOHS to finance similar activities in the remaining districts. These
efforts to increase the involvement of the users of services and the civil
society in the decisions made in the health sector will be synchronized
with MOHS work to regulate cost-recovery and will include mechanisms to
protect vulnerable populations. HSRDP would finance: (a) a feasibility
study (to be carried out with consultant assistance and with the
participation of MOHS and district staff) of approaches for establishing
local financing mechanisms; (b) testing and consensus-building concerning
these possible approaches (either by MOHS or through an NGO partner); and
(c) preparation of the guidelines to establish such a system. An equity
fund to pay for the delivery of services for the benefit of the poor
- 10 -



population in one of the facilities rehabilitated with HSRDP support will
be tested. The project would also consider, at the time of the mid-term
review, establishing two prepayment arrangements on an experimental basis
to finance health care for the population of one small urban and one rural
community and test their feasibility (in economic terms and from an equity
perspective).
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $1.00
IBRD
IDA $12.00
IDA GRANT FOR POST-CONFLICT $8.00
Total Project Cost $21.00
6. Implementation
The capacity created in the MOHS by the IHSIP project (in terms of
planning, financial management and procurement) proved to be a good
investment. Using this capacity the MOHS succeeded in implementing the
previous credit satisfactorily in spite of the difficult conditions that
prevailed in the country from 1995 to 2001. It is, therefore, proposed to
continue strengthening MOHS capacity and use it to implement the proposed
project without setting up a separate project unit. See also section E
4.1 and 4.2 below on Institutional issues and the PIP.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the HSRDP is linked to the success of the
Government's implementation of its recovery and reform program, within a
sound macro-economic framework. The PER listed a number of issues which
must be addressed to ensure sustainability of the health care system and
which are of relevance for the sustainability of the project. Services
cannot be delivered without adequate numbers of trained and motivated
personnel, either in the public and private, and this implies a larger
capacity to train and adequate current expenditures to pay personnel.
Proposed budgetary allocations show imbalances between present capital
expenditure (mostly external sources) and future operating expenditures
from domestic sources. In the medium term there will be need to overcome
current dependence on external funds through increased domestic revenues.
At this time, there are still districts in which Government control has
only recently been restored and in which electricity, telephone and other
communication, transport and banking facilities do not operate fully.
While recent macroeconomic projections predict growth of more than 5t for
the next few years, the projected increases in revenue seem rather
modest. In other words, until this situation is changed, in Sierra Leone
more than in other developing countries, the funding of the health sector
will be highly dependent on external sources. Therefore, within the
limits of prudent fiscal management, as the macroeconomic situation
improves, there is urgent need to (a) increase the share of the budget
allocation to the health sector to reasonable levels and also (b) seek
domestic sources of funds that will ensure the future sustainability of
the health delivery system with a lower dependence on external sources.
These issues ought to be one of the priorities in the Bank's dialogue with
the Government (including the PRSP dialogue).
- 11 -



Nonetheless, reforms of the public health system supported by the project
will improve performance and make the public sector more credible to
consumers of services. They will also promote efficiency in the provision
of more effective and relevant services. Improvements in the country's
economic situation should also enhance the capacity to pay for services of
greater relevance and quality. These conditions should increase the
potential for revenue collections from fees for services and charge for
drugs supplied provided that appropriate financial management at local
level is improved.
While the above is likely to happen in the midterm, immediate prospects
are less clear as the population is generally poor and the underserved
groups, in particular in the districts supported by HSRDP, are numerous.
For this reason, the project has included measures not only to improve
sector financing and efficiency but also to reinstate cost recovery with
appropriate safeguards to assure affordability of services for the
underserved groups.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The current project (IHSIP) as well as the first IDA credit to the health
sector in Sierra Leone (Health Services Development Project) helped
identify a number of positive features such as: the sector's ability to
develop a transparent program and to work with all parties involved in a
convivial manner; the increasingly satisfactory level of performance in
planning, financial management and procurement; and the sector's
willingness to collaborate with NGOs. At the same time, the sector was
less successful in implementing technical programs and in decentralizing
decision making; this was due not only to difficulties linked to the war
and instability but also to conflicting donor policies (e.g., reproductive
health and mother/child health), insufficient capacity to lead these
programs, and delays in public sector reforms (such as decentralization,
computerization of financial management in the public sector,
simplification of procurement operations which involve the Central Tender
Board in the approval process of minor transactions, etc.) which have
hindered developments in the health sector. Based on these lessons, HSRDP
is proposing to capitalize on capacity already developed in the MOHS to
implement the project without creating a Project Implementation Unit.
Moreover, to avoid the above mentioned drawbacks, project preparation has
been carried out with the full participation of other donors, and the
Borrower has agreed to evaluate bids using the MOHS tender board (which
will include representation from the Central Tender Board).
The analysis of the experience in implementing technical programs led to
other project features such as an emphasis on NGOs for social marketing of
impregnated bed-nets and condoms, more attention to contracting out
activities (clinical and non-clinical) with the private for-profit and
not-for-profit sector, increased preoccupation with demand raising
activities (in particular for bed-nets).
The most successful feature of the IHSIP project (i.e., its capacity to
plan taking into account changes in health status and in the overall
situation in the country by using a participatory annual review and
planning process) was also included in the proposed project's design.
While the HSRDP credit was fully allocated during project preparation,
implementation arrangements include the possibility of questioning the
- 12 -



pertinence of these allocations annually and of making adjustments during
the annual participatory program review and planning process.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         There are no significant environmental issues.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Astrid Helgeland-Lawson
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-4818
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
November 15, 2002.
- 13 -



