RP118
GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK  RESEITLI
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PR(
SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
(October 2002)
James Orehmie Monday
FILE COPY



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK           RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.s
A. Introduction                                                    ..3.
B. Principles and objectives governing resettlement preparation    . .6
and implementation.
C. A description of the process for preparing and approving        . .8
Resettlement plans.
D. Land acquisition and likely categories of impact.              ..12
E. Eligibility criteria for defining various categories of project affected persons.  .. 14
F. A legal Framework reviewing the fit between the laws of Sierra Leone  ..15
and regulations and Bank policy requirements and measures to bridge any gaps
proposed between them.
G. Methods of valuing affected assets.                             ..19
H. Organizational procedures for the delivery of entitlements, including,  ..27
for projects involving private sector intermediaries, the responsibilities financial
intermediary, the government, and the private developer.
I. A description of the implementation process, linking resettlement implementation ..29
to civil works.
J. A description of the grievance redress mechanisms.               ..29
K. A description of the arrangements for funding resettlement, including the  ..30
preparation and review of cost estimates, the flow of funds,
and contingency arrangements.
L. A description of mechanisms for consultations with, and participation of,  ..30
displaced persons in planning, implementation, and monitoring.
M. Arrangements for monitoring by the implementation agency and,     ..32
if required, by independent monitors.
Annexe A     -     Aide Memoire                                         ..35
Annexe B     -     Map of Sierra Leone                                   ..46
2



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK        RESErTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    After a decade of war, political and social instability during which some of the
most horrific war crimes were inflicted against its people, Sierra Leone, which is a well
endowed country with abundant quantities of- geo-physical and human resources, is
struggling to uplift itself out of a desperate economic situation .
2.    The health sector is facing many challenging issues associated with development
which have been exacerbated by the additional environmental and social burdens
associated with the aftermaths of a post conflict era. The health status of the population
in general is characterized as critical.
3.    For example, in Sierra Leone life expectancy at birth is only 43 years, and infant,
un der-five and maternal mortality rates are as high as 170, 286, and 18 per thousand
live births, respectively. The people suffer from diseases for which cost-effective
interventions are available. Among these diseases are malaria, tuberculosis, acute
respiratory diseases, diarrhea, leprosy, lassa fever, onchocerciasis and cholera and
other water borne diseases. Malnutrition is widely spread among children and
contributes significantly to the high mortality rates cited above.
4.    Also, the HIV/ AIDS epidemic is more significant in comparison to neighboring
countries. The prevalence rate of HIV sero-positivity is now estimated at about 4.9% and
may be at 18% in some groups such as the military.
5.    In addition to this, as a result of the war atrocities, the country was left with
thousands of amputees, a huge number of traumatized and psychologically affected
people, among them mostly are internally displaced people, women who were raped and
/or lost their children and families, and children who are orphaned or living away from
their parents.
6.    As part if its post war recovery efforts in September 2001 the Government of
Sierra Leone (GOSL) launched the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Plan (I-PRSP).
The World Bank as part of its country assistance strategy for Sierra Leone developed a
Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) as part of its plans to support the implementation of
the I-PRSP.
7.    The GOSL has asked for a credit from the IDA for support of the proposed Health
Sector Reconstruction and Development Project (HSRDP) whose objectives are aligned
with the goals of the TSS and are;
a)   to increase access to affordable essential health services by
improving primary and first referral health facilities in four districts
of the country.
b)   to improve the performance of key technical programs responsible
for coping with the country's major public health problems.
c)   to strengthen health sector management capacity to improve
efficiency and further decentralize decision-making to the districts.
3



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK        RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
d)   to support development of the private health sector and
involvement of the civil society in decision-making.
8.    The proposed HSRDP is structured to achieve it objectives within two major
investment components of the project, which are;
a)    Component 1: Restoring Essential Health Services, will (i)
provide assistance to four priority districts to deliver adequate
health services and (ii) support for five priority technical programs
to improve their performance and control infectious diseases of
high public health importance in Sierra Leone.
b)    Component 2:      Strengthening Public and Private Sector
Capacity, will support the decentralized process, strengthen key
Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS) support services and
promote the development of the private sector and civil society
participation in the health sector.
9.    Specifically, under Component 1, is a sub component 1.2 Sanitation, under
which support will be provided for Sanitation measures (solid waste management
mostly) in the four districts and in the capital city, Freetown. Regarding sanitation, a
program of importance for all infectious disease control programs and for prevention in
general, the project will support activities to be contracted out to private providers and
advocacy for involving municipalities and communes in waste management (thus
redefining the task of the MOHS from a provider of services to contract management
and environmental monitoring; the ultimate objective of this program will be to transfer
sanitation responsibilities.
10.   Under implementation of Sanitation sub-component 1.2, land would have to be
acquired to use as Land fill sites for waste management purposes. Significant efforts
would be made to select these sites to avoid or minimize impacts on people, land,
property, including. people's access to natural and other economic resources, as far as
possible.
11.   Notwithstanding, land acquisition that will lead to involuntary resettlement of
people seems inevitable. When that occurs, the World Bank Operational Policy,
OP4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement will be triggered.
12.   The GOSL is not required to prepare a Resettlement Plan at this stage since the
land fill sites have not yet been identified. However, the GOSL is required to prepare a
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) to be disclosed by the GOSL and the Bank
before appraisal. The RPF establishes the resettlement and compensation principles,
organizational arrangements and design criteria to be applied to meet the needs of the
people who may be affected by the project. The RPF is prepared to the standards of the
Government's own policy on resettlement and the policy of the World Bank, OP4.12.
13.   When the land fill sites are identified, resettlement/compensation plans will be
subsequently prepared consistent with this policy framework and will be submitted to the
4



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK         RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
Bank for approval before any land acquisition, resettlement, or any other impact on
livelihood occurs.
14.   This RPF will cover the following sections;
B. Principles and objectives governing resettlement preparation and
implementation.
C. A description of the process for preparing and approving resettlement plans.
D. Land acquisition and likely categories of impact.
E. Eligibility criteria for defining various categories of project affected persons.
F. A legal Framework reviewing the fit between the laws of Sierra Leone and
regulations and Bank policy requirements and measures proposed to bridge any
gaps between them.
G. Methods of valuing affected assets.
H. Organizational procedures for the delivery of entitlements, including, for projects
involving private sector intermediaries, the responsibilities of the financial
intermediary, the government, and the private developer.
I. A description of the implementation process, linking resettlement implementation
to civil works.
J. A description of the grievance redress mechanisms.
K. A description of the arrangements for funding resettlement, including the
preparation and review of cost estimates, the flow of funds, and contingency
arrangements.
L. A description of mechanisms for consultations with, and participation of,
displaced persons in planning, implementation, and monitoring.
M. Arrangements for monitoring by the implementation agency and, if required, by
independent monitors.
5



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK         RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
B. Principles and objectives governing resettlement preparation and
implementation.
The impacts due to involuntary resettlement from development projects, if left
unmitigated, often gives rise to severe economic, social and environmental risks
resulting in production systems being dismantled, people facing impoverishment when
their productive skills may be less applicable and the competition for resources greater;
community institutions and social networks being weakened; kin groups being dispersed;
and cultural identity, traditional authority, and the potential for mutual help are diminished
or lost. The resettlement policy, in most cases, is not triggered because people are being
affected by physical replacement. It is triggered because the project activity causes land
acquisition, whereby a physical piece of land is needed and people may be affected
because they are cultivating on that land, they may have buildings on the land, they may
use the land for water and grazing of animals or they may otherwise access the land
economically, spiritually or any other way which may not be possible during and after the
project is implemented. Therefore, people are in most cases compensated for their loss
(of land, property or access) either in kind or in cash of which the former is preferred.
Therefore, the objectives of this policy are the following;
(i)   Involuntary resettlement and land acquisition should be avoided where feasible,
or minimized, exploring all viable alternatives.
(ii)  Where involuntary resettlement and land acquisition is unavoidable, resettlement
and compensation activities should be conceived and executed as sustainable
development programs, providing sufficient investment resources to give the persons
displaced by the project the opportunity to share in project benefits. Displaced and
compensated persons should be meaningfully consulted and should have opportunities
to participate in planning and implementing resettlement programs.
(iii)  Displaced and compensated persons should be assisted in their efforts to
improve their livelihoods and standards of living or at least to restore them, in real terms,
to pre-displacement levels or levels prevailing prior to  the beginning of project
implementation, whichever is higher.
Affected people, according to the Bank policy, refers to people who are directly affected
socially and economically by the bank assisted investment projects, caused by:
(a) the involuntary taking of land and other assets resulting in:
a. relocation or loss of shelter
b. loss of assets or access to assets
c. loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected
persons must move to another location;
or
(b) the involuntary restriction or access to legally designated parks and protected
areas results in adverse impacts on the livelihood of the displaced persons.
6



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK         RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
The resettlement policy applies to all components under the project, whether or not they
are directly funded in whole or in part by the Bank.
The policy applies to all displaced persons regardless of the total number affected, the
severity of impact and whether or not they have legal title to the land. Particular attention
should be paid to the needs of vulnerable groups among those displaced; especially
those below the poverty line; the land less, the elderly, women and children, indigenous
groups and ethnic minorities or other displaced persons who may not be protected
through Sierra Leone Land compensation legislation.
In particular for HSRDP, the policy also requires that the implementation of individual
resettlement plans are a prerequisite for the implementation the project activities
requiring land acquisition, to ensure that displacement or restriction to access does not
occur before necessary measures for resettlement and compensation are in place. It is
further required that these measures include provision of compensation and of other
assistance required for relocation, prior to displacement, and preparation and provision
of resettlement sites with adequate facilities, where required. In particular, the taking of
land and related assets may take place only after compensation has been paid and
where applicable, resettlement sites, new homes, related infrastructure, public services
and moving allowances have been provided to displaced persons. Furthermore, where
relocation or loss of shelter occurs, the policy further requires that measures to assist the
displaced persons are implemented in accordance with the resettlement plan of action.
In this project, the implementation of the waste management plan calls for the
acquisition of landfill sites in the capital city of Freetown and four districts namely, Kono,
Koinandugu, Bombali and Moyamba. Internationally accepted minimum standards for
the selection of landfill sites (see section C for details) establishes certain conditions that
should determine the location of such sites to protect local communities and to aid the
bio-degradable process that is desired. For instance, some of these environmental and
social protection conditions include; selecting sufficiently large sites that have a potential
ten year life capacity, to establish buffer zones around the perimeter of these sites to
push back residential development and for relocation outside these zones of public
services such as electricity lines, water and sewer lines, and the relocation of farming
activities, irrigation, livestock etc. These are clearly public health requirements.
Therefore, land acquisition would have to be done in a way that satisfies these
conditions. When this occurs, people would be impacted and resettlement cannot be
avoided.
The project activities under the Sanitation component of this project, supports the
contracting out to private providers and advocacy for involving municipalities and
communes in waste management. This could provide additional income generating
opportunities to a significant number of persons in these targeted areas who may
potentially have to be resettled. This is particularly significant in a post war environment
where socio-economic pressures like high unemployment, are critically strenuous and
are likely to be exacerbated by involuntary resettlement. Therefore, this opportunity for
local employment is being taken advantage of in this resettlement policy framework
(RPF), by including it for discussion in the consultative process with the affected
communities. This RPF prefers to encourage potential waste management providers
through the provision of incentives in their contracts to show preference for employing
project displaced persons and not through legal provision. One way of promoting this
7



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK        RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
would be for the project to train displaced persons to acquire the skills needed by these
waste management firms/service providers.
A major object of this RPF is to ensure that displaced communities are meaningfully
consulted, have participated in the planning process, are adequately compensated to the
extent that their pre-displacement incomes have been restored and that the process has
been a fair and transparent one.
C. Description of the process for preparing and approving resettlement
plans.
As stated earlier, the World Bank policy on Involuntary Resettlement OP 4.12 is
triggered because the HSRDP will finance productive investments that would require
land acquisition. Since the location of these sites were not known at the time of the
preparation of the project, the preparation and disclosure of this RPF by the GOSL is a
conditionality for appraisal of this project. However, during implementation of this project,
in a process defined here below, the selection of these sites would be made. When that
happens, land would be acquired and people will be affected. At that stage, OP 4.12
calls for the preparation of individual Resettlement Plans that must be consistent with
this RPF.
To address the impacts under this policy, resettlement plans must include measures to
ensure that the displaced persons are;
(a)   informed about their options and rights pertaining to resettlement.
(b)   consulted on, offered choices among, and provided with technically and
economically feasible resettlement alternatives.
(c)   And provided prompt and effective compensation at full replacement cost
for losses of assets and access attributable to the project.
The first stage in the process of preparing the individual resettlement plans is the
screening process to the land to be acquired.
The Land Selection Screening Process
This process would lead to the identification of a number of different potential/proposed
landfill sites. In pursuance of this the Project Management Team at the Ministry of Health
and Sanitation (MOHS) will set up an adhoc team , namely Land Acquisition Team
(LAT) comprising the following;
Proposed Members of the Land (Land fillsites) Acquisition Team
One member from the MOHS
One member from the Department of Environment
One member from the Department of Lands
One State Counsel form the Ministry of Justice
One member from the District Officer's office ( 1 from each of the four district
Waste Management Specialist                         plus Freetown)
8



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK         RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
The purpose of the LAT is to identify potential/required land fill sites in each of the
targeted areas. The land screening criteria will be based on the following considerations
as a minimum standard;
* The selection of any landfill site that triggers the Worldbank Safeguards Policies
on Natural Habitats (OP 4.04), Forestry (OP4.36), Cultural Property (OP1 1.03),
Indigenous Peoples (OP4.20), Projects in International Waters (OP7.50) and
Projects in Disputed Areas(OP7.60) will not be approved for funding by the bank
* The selected landfill sites should comply with the Public Health Ordinance of
1960 and the Town and Country Planning Act 1960 No.23 of Sierra Leone. The
Public Health Act requires landfill sites to be selected so that they are situated
and maintained at such places that shall not be a nuisance or be injurious to the
public health. The Town and Country Planning Act sets out planning regulations
to be complied with.
* The sites should be consistent with the long term development plans for the
areas in which they are located.
* The sites should have adequate land area and volume to provide sanitary landfill
capacity to meet projected needs for at least 10 years.
* The sites should be accessible within 30 minutes travel time ( a function of road
and traffic conditions) so as not to adversely affect the productivity of collection
vehicles. At distances greater than 30 min. for collection operations to be
economic, investment in either large capacity collection vehicles (5tons per load
or greater) or transfer stations with large capacity vehicles would be necessary.
* If transfer stations are necessary, landfill sites should be accessible within 2hours
travel time one-way from the transfer station.
* Groundwater's seasonally high table level (i.e., 10year high) should be at least
1.5m below the proposed base of any excavation or site preparation to enable
landfill cell development.
* Soils above the groundwater's seasonable high table level to be relatively
impermeable   ( preferably, less than 10-9 meters/second permeability when
undisturbed).
* No environmentally significant wetlands of important biodiversity or reproductive
value are present within the potential area of the landfill cell development.
* None of the areas within the landfill boundaries are part of the 1Oyear
groundwater recharge area for existing or pending water supply development.
* No known environmentally rare or endangered species breeding areas or
protected living areas are present within the site boundaries.
9



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK         RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
*  No significant protected forests are within 0.5km of the landfill cell development
area.
*  No major lines of electrical transmission or other infrastructure (i.e., gas, sewer,
water mains) should cross the landfill cell development area, unless the landfill
operation would clearly cause no concern or rerouting is economically feasible.
* There should be no residential development within 0.25km from the perimeter of
the proposed landfill cell development.
*  There should be no perennial stream within 0.03km downstream of the proposed
landfill site.
* The sites should not be situated within a floodplain subject to 1 Oyear floods.
The list of potential land fill sites to be acquired will then be subject to a comprehensive
sensitization and consultation process ( see section L of this RPF for details) with the
potentially impacted communities.
After this consultative process is completed, the LAT, which will now co-opt into it the
Paramount Chief (PC) of the District in which the chosen land is located,  the
LATplusPC , will now confirm, approve and/or take a final decision subject to the
approval of the World Bank.
The Beginning of the Consultative Process
Once an agreement has been reached on the choice of location following this
consultative process, the chosen locations will be the subject of a study and the
preparation of a document as follows;
(a) A socio-economic study (this study will include determination of
impacts)
(b) Resettlement Plans
The purpose of the Socio-economic study is to collect base line data within the chosen
landfill site areas thereby enabling the social assessment of potentially affected
populations/communities. The socio-economic study would focus on the identification of
stakeholders (demographic data), the participation process, identification of affected
people (including owners and users of land) and impact on their property and their
production systems, the institutional analysis and the system for monitoring and
evaluation. Detailed calculation of individual and household economies and identification
of all impacts will be undertaken as part of the socio-economic study and be the
determinant in the potential compensation process. Standard characteristics of the
affected households, including a description of production systems, labor, and
household organization, and baseline information on livelihoods (including production
levels and incomes derived from both formal and informal economic activities) and
standards of living and health status of the displaced population. Under this study a
comprehensive base line census would be carried out to identify potentially affected
people on the individual and household levels, vulnerable groups (women, children, the
elderly, female headed households, affected internally displaced people, affected
10



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK          RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
internally displaced households, etc.) and to discourage inflow of people ineligible for
assistance.
On completion the socio- economic study and the baseline census a resettlement plan is
to be prepared for each site.
Where the impacts on the entire displaced population are minor (i.e. if affected people
are not physically displaced and less than 10% of their productive assets are lost) or
fewer than 200 people are displaced, then the bank may approve the preparation of an
Abbreviated Resettlement Plan (ARAP). The contents of the ARAP are to be:
(a) a census survey of displaced persons and valuation of assets.
(b) Description of compensation and other resettlement assistance to be
provided.
(c) Consultations with displaced people about acceptable alternatives.
(d) Institutional responsibility for implementation and procedures for
grievance redress
(e) Arrangements for monitoring and implementation, and
(f) A timetable and budget.
For impacts that are not considered minor, the preparation of a Resettlement Plan (RAP)
is required for each site. World bank OP 4.12 article 25 sets the requirements of the
RAP to include;
(a) Baseline census and socio-economic survey information
(b) Specific compensation rates and standards
(c) Policy entitlements related to any additional impacts identified through
the census or survey
(d) A description of the resettlement sites and programs for improvement
or restoration of livelihoods and standards of living
(e) Implementation schedule for resettlement activities
(f) Detailed costs estimates.
The ARAP and RAP are to be prepared by the LAT1 and screened and approved by the
Project Management Team (PMT) at the MOHS. This process of identifying land,
consulting potentially impacted people, carrying out a socio-economic study may have to
be iterative, simply because the mitigation measures (i.e. the compensation levels) may
be too costly in terms of the amount paid as compensation and the overall number of
people impacted. This would have to be determined by the PMT. The LAT may also wish
to consider the selection of alternative sites to propose to the PMT for approval.
However, irrespective of whether the process of identifying potential landfill sites is
pursued iteratively or a number of sites are identified simultaneously, the process for the
selection must be as described above.
i The Land Acquisition Team (LAT) does not include the Paramount Chief at this stage. This ensures that
the Paramount Chief is not a party to the approval process of the resettlement plans so that there is no
conflict of interest, as the paramount chief is at the top of the Appeals structure in the redress mechanism
identified in section J of this RPF.



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK        RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
The final approved sites by the PMT , the process of selection of the sites, and the
ARAP or RAP would all be subject to final review and approval by the World Bank to
ensure compliance with bank safeguards. Thus ensuring that before land is actually
acquired, the individual resettlement plans are consistent with this RPF.
Capacity will be built at the MOHS , Department of Environment and community levels
through training and technical assistance to ensure all stakeholders involved, play their
different roles, effectively.
D. Land Acquisition and Likely Categories of Impact
At this stage it is not possible to estimate the likely number of people who may be
affected since the location of the landfill sites are not yet known.
However, the likely displaced persons can be categorized into these 3 groups, namely;
(i) Affected Individual - An individual who suffers loss of assets or investments,
land and property and/or access to natural and/or economical resources as a
result of the project activities and to whom compensation is due. For example, an
affected individual is a person who farms a land, or who has built a structure on
land that has been demarcated for dump sites by town planners and is now
required by the project.
(ii) Affected Household - a household is affected if one or more of its members is
affected by project activities, either by loss of property, land, loss of access or
otherwise affected in any way by project activities. This provides for:
(a) any members in the households, men, women, children, dependent relatives
and friends, tenants
(b) vulnerable individuals who may be too old or ill to farm along with the others
(c) members of households who cannot reside together because of cultural
rules, but who depend on one another for their daily existence
(d) members of households who may not eat together but provide housekeeping,
or reproductive services critical to the family's maintenance, and
(e) other vulnerable people who cannot participate for physical or cultural
reasons in production, consumption, or co-residence.
In the local culture, members of production, consumption, and co-resident groups form
overlapping, often incongruent sets of people who may exchange domestic or farming
services on a regular basis even though living separately.
Compensation will not be limited to people who live together in a co-resident group,
since this might leave out people whose labor contributions are critical to the functioning
of the "household". For example, among polygamous settings, each wife has their own
home.
(iii) Vulnerable Households - in Sierra Leone because of the atrocities committed
during the war, vulnerable households may have different land needs from most
households or needs unrelated to the amount of land available to them. They may
already be undergoing some form of rehabilitation including training to acquire
vocational skills in purpose built centers. This provides for;
12



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK        RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
a)    Internally Displaced Peoples - these are people who had to flee
their homes during the war and are virtually refugees in their own
country and have not returned. They may be dependent on the NGO
community and others for support.
b)    Amputees - these are people whose limps were literally chopped off
during the war. A number of them have been camped by relief
agencies, but large numbers of this group still live outside these
camps, as they try to scrape a living in growth towns and cities. They
depend on able body relatives, relief agencies and society in general.
For many of them, the trauma of losing a limb plays a significant
psychological role in their attitude to life. Many of them feel forgotten
and neglected by society and believe that "compassion fatique" has
set in. They have to live side by side in society with some of the
people who perpetrated these atrocities against them, all of whom
have been given blanket amnesty as part of the negotiated political
settlement that led to the end of the conflict. The amputees are now
having to learn knew skills so that they may be meaningfully
employed. As they cannot farm in the traditional sense, they will not
be affected in the project's need for agricultural land. If a building of
theirs lies on land needed, they will receive replacement cost
compensation. If someone on who they depend is resettled, they are
to be protected because the resettled can name them as part of the
household. If they are affected by loss of access to economic
resources, they would be compensated accordingly.
c)    Elderly - elderly people farm as long as they are able. Their
economic viability does not depend on how much land they farm or
how much they produce because, by producing even small amounts
of food to "exchange" with others, they can subsist on cooked food
and generous return gifts of cereal from people such as their kith and
kin and neighbors. Losing land will not affect their economic viability.
They will have cash or in-kind replacements to exchange. For future
production they need access to only a small parcel of land. What
would damage their economic viability is resettlement that separates
them from the person or household on whom they depend for their
support. The definition of household by including dependents avoids
this.
d)    Internally Displaced Orphaned Children - Despite the laws of
Sierra Leone and International Labor Organizations prohibiting the
exploitation of children, it is a reality that displaced orphaned children
are either in paid employment or are on the streets in Sierra Leone.
They tend to live in close proximity to large towns and cities. If they
are impacted by this project in a way that means they have to be
physically relocated, their compensation cannot be in cash. They
would have to be put in a Unicef program or registered with one of the
many children's charities that are operating in Sierra Leone today.
Their compensation would take the form of  paying for their
rehabilitation and training to acquire useful vocational skills.
e)    Women - may depend on husbands, sons, brothers or others for
support. In many cases too, women are the main breadwinner in their
13



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK        RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
household. They need relatively easy access to health service
facilities, as mothers and wives. Women are central to the stability of
the household. They should not be resettled in a way that separates
them from their households as the very survival of their households
depend on them. Their compensation must take into account all these
factors.
These household types are not mutually exclusive, so that an amputee may be an
internally displaced orphan, and the elderly may be internally displaced individual.
E. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR DEFINING VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF
PROJECT AFFECTED PERSONS
The Bank's OP4.12 suggests the following three criterion for eligibility;
a)    Those who have formal rights to land (including customary land
traditional and religious rights, recognized under the Laws of Sierra
Leone)
b)    Those who do not have formal legal rights to land at the time the census
begins but have a claim to such land or assets provided that such claims
are recognized under the laws of Sierra Leone or become recognized
through a process identified in the resettlement plan
c)    Those who have no recognizable legal right or claim to the land they are
occupying.
Those covered under a) and b) above are to be provided compensation for the land they
lose, and other assistance in accordance with the policy. Persons covered under c)
above are to be provided with resettlement assistance in lieu of compensation for the
land they occupy, and other assistance, as necessary, to achieve the objectives set out
in this policy, if they occupy the project area prior to a cut-off date established by the
Government of Sierra Leone and acceptable to the Bank. Persons who encroach on the
area after the cut-off date are not entitled to compensation or any other form of
resettlement assistance. All persons included in a), b) or c) above are to be provided
with compensation for loss of assets other than land.
Therefore, it is clear that all affected persons irrespective of their status or whether they
have formal titles, legal rights or not, squatters or otherwise encroaching illegally on
land, are eligible for some kind of assistance if they occupied the land before the
entitlement cut-off date. Persons who encroach the area after the socio-economic study
(census and valuation) are not eligible for compensation or any form of resettlement
assistance.
Eligibility for Community Compensation
Communities ( districts, chiefdoms, towns and villages) permanently losing land and/or
access to assets under customary rights will be eligible for compensation.
14



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONEWORLD BANK        RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
Method to Determine the Cut - Off Dates
The entitlement cut-off date refers to the time when the assessment of persons and their
property in the project area is carried out, i.e. the time when the project area has been
identified and when the socio-economic study is taking place. Thereafter, no new cases
of affected people will be considered .
The establishment of a cut-off date is required to prevent opportunistic invasions /rush
into the chosen land thereby posing a major risk to the project. Therefore, establishment
of a the cut-off date is of critical importance.
At the meeting of the LATplusPC in which the land is approved, a cut -off date will be
chosen. The Paramount Chief would now go back to his community through the
respective Section Chief, Town Chief and Village Chief, to inform them on the final
location of the landfill site that is chosen and of the cut-off date.
F. A LEGAL FRAMEWORK REVIEWING THE FIT BETWEEN THE LAWS OF
SIERRA LEONE AND REGULATIONS AND BANK POLICY REQUIREMENTS
AND MEASURES PROPOSED TO BRIDGE ANY GAPS BETWEEN THEM
Administratively, Sierra Leone is divided into the Western Area (which includes
Freetown, the capital city), and twelve Districts. The districts are collectively known as
the provinces. Each district is divided into several chiefdoms, which are sub divided into
sections, towns and villages.
At the district level, the administrative head is known as the District Officer (DO), who is
appointed by the Government. The Chiefdoms are headed by the Paramount Chief, the
sections by the Section Chief, the towns by the Town Chiefs and the villages by the
Village Chiefs. The chiefs are not appointed by the government but by their communities
under customary law
LAND TENURE AND OWNERSHIP
Land tenure in Sierra Leone is governed by Property Statutes in the capital city,
Freetown and the surrounding areas collectively referred to as the Western Area, and,
everywhere else in the country, Customary Law exist in parallel with Statute.
In the Western Area
In the Western Area of Sierra Leone, Land is either State (Public) owned or Privately
owned. The Law of Property Act 1925 forms the basis for land law. Public Land of the
State is inalienable and indefeasible. Rights of occupation over public land may be
granted under warrant. National public property includes water flows, lakes, ponds, and
springs, islands, sandbanks and riverbanks formed in rivers, underground streams,
mineral and mining deposits, navigation and irrigation channels, waterways, drainage
and sewage systems, communication means, airports, telecommunication systems,
power generation works for public utility, and protective devices, geodesic and
topographic boundaries and landmarks, national defense works and their perimeters of
15



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK         RESEYTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
protection, public monuments, and collections or objects of cultural interest belonging to
the state or to a subordinate public entity.
Customary rights of customary users of Public Land in the Western Area are not
recognized. Therefore, customarily the loss of such land does not entitle the customary
users to any form of compensation for any investments or for provision of land
elsewhere.
However, land that is not in the Public Land domain that is acquired by a warrant is
eligible to compensation.
The state has the power, conferred by the Unoccupied Lands Act, Cap 117, to take
possession of unoccupied land. All land shall be deemed to be unoccupied land where it
is not proved, by the person/persons claiming the same, that beneficial use thereof for
cultivation, inhabitation or industrial purposes, has been made for twelve years.
Other statutes relating to land are;
* The interpretation Act No. 8 of 1971
* Public Health Act No. 23 of 1960
* Public Land Act 116
In the private domain, private ownership may be established by registering the land with
the Land Registry to obtain a legal title. Private Land may be held in Freehold or
Leasehold. Customary rights do not exist over freehold or leasehold property. The land
owner is entitled to fair compensation for the land itself as well as any investments.
In the Rest of Sierra Leone (The Provinces)
In the provinces, Customary Law co-exist with statute and where there is a conflict,
statute takes precedence. As far as land tenure is concerned, this is governed
predominantly by customary law. Land is vested in the chiefdoms and communities and
can never be owned freehold. Land always belongs to the communities under the
different forms of tenure under customary law (e.g. family, communal or individual).
There are statues like Cap 122, The Provinces Land Act, which regulates holding by non
natives in the provinces. Non natives being loosely defined for the purposes of this policy
as those who do not have any inheritance rights in the chiefdoms. That is anyone from
outside the community.
In section two of the Local Courts Act, customary law is defined as " any rule or law
other than the general law having the force of law in any chiefdom in the provinces." It
also provides that there is established for every chiefdom a local court authorized to
administer customary law in that chiefdom. However, by most interpretations of
customary law, there can exist as many variations of customary law as there are
chiefdoms or ethnic communities. But with land tenure the principles of customary law
cuts across ethnic differences and the most common forms are;
16



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK         RESETrLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
* Family Tenure
* Communal Tenure
* Individual Tenure
Family Tenure
This is the most common form of tenure found in the provinces. Family is used in the
sense of a kinship or descent group with the concept of clan or lineage. In most cases,
lineage is traced, Patrilinearly, for the purposes of inheritance. Therefore, a person can
only be entitled to rights in family tenure, if that person is able to prove his kinship,
patrilinearly within a particular family in a chiefdom. Family tenure is a system of tenure
under which entitlements to land within a particular chiefdom is claimed by various
descent groups each with a common ancestor and who constitutes a family unit. Such
family units are a corporate entity and have capacity to claim and hold land as a body. It
also has capacity of having the paramount title to the land vested in itself. Though the
paramount title to family land is vested in the family as a group, yet underneath the
umbrella of this title, varying degrees of lesser interests held in specific or particular
portions of family land may be held by some family groups or individuals. Responsibility
for the management of family land is vested in the head of the family assisted by
principal members. The head of the family has the right to allocate unoccupied portions
of family land to members of the family, to bring claims on land against outsiders on
behalf of the family for trespass on family land.
Communal Tenure
The main feature of communal tenure is that title in land in a given area in the chiefdom
is claimed by or on behalf of the community as a whole and not by or on behalf of
families or individuals. Like the family under family tenure, the community is also a
corporate entity, endowed with legal capacity to enforce and defend its claims and rights
to communal lands vis-a-vis other communities. Unlike the family, a community is not a
kinship, but a socio-political entity and its members are not necessarily related to each
other. There are also similarities between the two entities in that membership of a
community and members rights to claim an interest in communal land is based on
descent from some kinship group within the community.
The community for this purpose occupies an identifiable and precise boundary. At its
broadest and highest level, the community is co-extensive with the chiefdom. Viewed
externally, it gives the appearance of a monolithic unit. Another feature of communal
tenure is that title communal lands is not vested directly on the communal as an entity as
in the case of the family, it is vested rather in the socio-political head of a particular
community. It is so vested in a representative capacity. Though they are sometimes
referred to as owners of land, one should not lose sight of the fact that they are holding
such land in a representative capacity. Another feature of communal tenure similar to
family tenure is that it is only the unapportioned and unappropriated  portions of
communal lands and those lands which are strictly public lands , such as sacred bushes,
common grazing lands and communal farms, that are subject to direct management,
control and supervision of the socio political heads.
17



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK        RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
Thus communal land can be defined as land held under communal tenure, title to which
is claimed by a community as a unit occupying and identifiable territory but with the
paramount title thereto vested in the socio-political head, such as the paramount chief,
section chief etc. in a representative capacity for the community as a whole.
Individual Tenure
This is the most controversial concept. It has been argued that in customary land tenure
there is no individual land ownership. But it is found to exist among some communities.
For example, there are practices whereby families owning large pieces of land would
allocate portions of land to individual members of the family to enable them set up their
individual households. Even though the paramount title remains vested in the family,
each individual members holds interest in his holdings. When the individual dies, the
land is inherited by his immediate or nuclear family or nearest next of kin, a matter of
priority, rather than by the wider ancestral group. It is also common to find practices
where a man my give each of his wives land for her use and that of her own children.
When the man dies the land is inherited by the wife whom was given the land when the
man was living and her children.
Whether the land would continued to be held as individual holdings would depend on a
number of factors, such as the number of children, etc. There are generally three ways
in which Individual Acquisition of title is done;
(i)   by clearing of virgin forest- any land not appropriated by the community
as a whole can be claimed individually
(ii)  by straight forward purchase - individuals who are not otherwise entitled
to land in a given area can purchase land outright from the recognized
owner.
(iii)  by gift - individual owners may acquire land as a gift. For example, where
a stranger marries into a land owning family, land may be given for his
use and to the use of his issues.
Comparison between Land Law in Sierra Leone and Bank OP4.12
Whereas the law relating to Land administration in Sierra Leone is wide and varied.
Entitlements for payment of compensation are essentially based on right of ownership.
The Bank OP is fundamentally different from this and states that affected persons are
entitled to some form of compensation whether or not they have legal title if they occupy
the land by a cut -off date.
Therefore, as this a Bank funded project and the principles of OP 4.12 are not
negotiable, the Bank OP.4.12 must be adhered to. As a result, all land to be acquired by
the government for this project would be so acquired subject to the Laws of Sierra Leone
and the Bank OP4.12. Where, there is conflict, the Bank OP 4.12 must take precedence
if the Bank is to fund this project.
18



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK       RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
Environmental Laws
The main Statute harnessing efforts to protect the environment is The Environment
Protection Act. 2000 and concentrates only on the bio-physical environment. This act
established the National Environment Protection Board, the main function of which is to
facilitate the coordination , cooperation and collaboration among government ministries,
local authorities and other governmental agencies in all areas relating to environmental
protection. Additionally, the board is mandated to review environmental impact
assessments prepared pursuant to this act and make recommendations to the Director.
The act also sets the procedure for the preparation, review and approval of
environmental assessments for projects, which include making the EA's available for
public inspection and comment in two consecutive issues of the Gazette and two issues
in a local newspaper.
G. Methods of valuing affected assets.
Valuation methods for affected land and assets would depend on the type of asset. The
three land asset types identified under Sierra Leone law in this policy framework are:
(i)   State owned Land
(ii)  Privately owned Land
(iii)  Assets held under Customary Law
State owned land would be allocated free ( perhaps except for processing and
registration fees), the project would be expected to pay compensation to acquire land in
this category in cases where the state-owned land is being used by farmers, settled
upon or other wise being used. Privately owned property, would have to be acquired at
the market value. The guiding principle is that whoever was using the land to be
acquired would be provided other land of equal size and quality.
However, according to Sierra Leone law, assets held under customary rights are in the
provinces only and would have to be valued according to the following method and
compensation paid for. The project would compensate for assets and investments,
including labor, crops, buildings, and other improvements, according to the provisions of
the resettlement plan. Compensation rates would be market rates as of the date and
time that the replacement is to be provided. The current prices for cash crops would
have to be determined. Compensation would not be made after the entitlement cut-off
date in compliance with this policy. Under customary law land belongs to chiefdoms,
towns and villages. The permanent loss of any such land will be covered by community
compensation which will be in-kind, only. However, because the bank policy on
resettlement , OP4.12, makes no distinction between statute and customary rights, not
only assets and investments will be compensated for, but also land. Thus, a customary
land owner or land user on state owned land, will be compensated for land, assets,
investments, loss of access etc. at market rates at the time of the loss.
Compensation Payments and Related Considerations.
Individual and household compensation will be made in cash, in kind, and/or through
assistance. The type of compensation will be an individual choice although every effort
19



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONEIWORLD BANK          RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENr PROJECT (HSRDP)
will be made to instill the importance and preference of accepting in kind compensation if
the loss amounts to more that 20% of the total loss of subsistence assets.
FORMS OF COMPENSATION
Cash Payments               aCompensation will be calculated in Leones. Rates will be
Cash Payments        ~~~~adjusted for inflation.
Compensation may include items such as land, houses, other
In-kind Compensation         buildings, building materials, seedlings, agricultural inputs
and financial credits for equipment.
Assistance                   Assistance may include moving allowance, transportation
Assistance           ~~~and labor
Making compensation payments raises some issues regarding inflation, security and
timing that must be considered. One purpose of providing in-kind compensation is to
reduce inflationary pressures on the costs of goods and services. Local inflation may still
occur, thus market prices will be monitored within the time period that compensation is
being made to allow for adjustments in compensation values. The question of security,
especially for people who will be receiving cash compensation payments needs to be
addressed by the government. Local banks and micro finance institutions should work
closely with, government at this level to encourage the use of their facilities which will
positively impact the growth of the local economies. The time and place for in-kind
compensation payments will be decided upon by each recipient in consultation with the
Project Management Team. Monetary payments should be paid at a time in relation to
the seasonal calendar.
Compensation for Land
Compensation for land is aimed at providing a farmer whose land is acquired and used
for project purposes with compensation for land labor and crop loss. For this reason, and
for transparency, a "Land" is defined as an area
*  In cultivation
*  Being prepared for cultivation, or
*  Cultivated during the last agricultural season (March - November of the previous
year)
This definition recognizes that the biggest investment a farmer makes in producing a
crop is his of her labor. A farmer works on his/her land most of the months of the year.
The major input for producing a crop is not seed or fertilizer, but the significant labor put
into the land each year by the farmer. As a result, compensation relating to land will
cover the market price of labor invested as well as the market price of the crop lost.
Land measurement
In the Western Area of Sierra Leone, the traditional unit of land measurement is the town
lot, which measures 50ft x 75ft. In the provinces, the traditional unit of land measurement
is also the town lot or the one bushel of rice, which equals approximately one acre of
20



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK             RESEYILEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
land. There are between 10 and 11 town lots in one acre. Compensation for land would
be paid based on the areas no smaller than one-quarter town lot. All measurements
would be rounded up to the nearest one-quarter town lot. Any farmer who is to receive
compensation for a land will measure the amount of land for which compensation is due.
Because land is laid out in town lots, a farmer can survey his or her land by finding the
mid points of the sides of the land, determine perpendiculars from the midpoints, and
thereby divide the land into quarter town lots. Using this method will avoid subsequent
accusations of wrong measurements or miscalculation of areas.
Calculation of Land Compensation Rate
All "land" to be compensated using a single rate regardless of the crop grown. This rate
incorporates the value of crops and the value of the labor invested in preparing a new
land. Determining compensation using a single rate creates transparency because
anyone can measure the area of land for which compensation is due and multiply that by
a single rate known to all. This approach also allows assignment of values to previous
year's land (land in which a farmer has already invested labor) and land that have been
planted but have not yet sprouted. Further, it avoids contention over crop density and
quality of mixed cropping. The value of the labor invested in preparing agricultural land
will be compensated at the average wage in the community for the same period of time.
The rate used for land compensation is to be updated to reflect values at the time
compensation is paid. The following example, which is based on 2002 data, derives a
total value for a one hectare land from the value of the crops on the land and the value
of labor invested in preparing a replacement land.
EXAMPLE OF METHOD TO BE USED TO DETERMINE A MONETARY COMPENSATION RATE FOR LAND*
(Based on 2002 data. LEONE payments will be revised to reflect crop values and labor rates In effect at the time
of compensation)
Item Compensated            Basis of Value               LEONE/ha
Average of the highest 2002 official
and market survey land prices per
Value of crops  ha of staple food crops (millet,
peanuts etc.),plus cash crops (e.g.
Sorghum).
Labor Invested     Labor costs of preparing a
replacement land.
Total           Replacement value of crops plus
labor.
Note: This example assures a one-hectare land.
Crop values will be determined based on:
*  A combination of staple foods and cash crops. Specifically, the 80/20 ratio of land
that a farmer typically has in food crops and cash crops is used to determine the
chances s/he would lose food crop rather than a cash crop income.
*  The value of stable crops to be taken as the highest market price reached during
the year, in recognition of these factors:
21



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK          RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
Although most farmers grow staple crops mainly for home
consumption, they always have the option of selling these crops to
take advantage of the market.
Farmers most often purchase cereals when they have run out, during
the "hungry season" when prices are high. Compensating at a lower
value might put the individual or household at risk.
Averaging the highest price of stable foods yields a high per ha value
that reimburses for the vegetables and other foods that are commonly
inter-cropped with staples, but are almost impossible to measure for
compensation.
* The labor cost for preparing replacement land is calculated on what it would cost
a farmer to create a replacement land. This value is found by adding together the
average costs of clearing, plowing, sowing, weeding twice, and harvesting the
crop. Labor costs will be paid in Leones, at the prevailing market rates.
The following table presents an example of a compensation schedule for a one-
hectare land. The Leone values are based on arbitrary labor rates , which will need
to be validated at the time payments are made.
EXAMPLE OF LAND COMPENSATION SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS
Activity               Month Paid            Labor in Leones/ha
Rate Costiday x no. of days
Clear                   March
Plough                   May
Sow                     May
Weed                     May
Harvest                 November
Total
All agricultural labor activities are included for two reasons. First, because of the need
for transparency, all land labor will be compensated for at the same rate. Second, it is
difficult to forecast when during the growing season a farmer might need to give up
his/her land. Thus, the land compensation covers all investments that a farmer will
make. In certain cases, assistance may be provided to land users in addition to
compensation payments, for example, if the farmer is notified that his/her land is needed
after the agriculturally critical date of March, when s/he will no longer have enough time
to prepare another land without help. Assistance will be provided in the form of labor
intensive village hire, or perhaps mechanized clearing, so that replacement land will be
ready by the sowing dates. The farmer will still continue to receive his/her cash
compensation so that /s/he can pay for sowing, weeding and harvesting.
22



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK                     RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
Compensation for Buildings and Structures.
Compensation will be paid by replacing structures such a s huts, houses, farm
outbuildings, latrines and fences. Any homes lost will be rebuilt on acquired replacement
land, however cash compensation would be available as a preferred option for structures
( i.e. extra buildings) lost, that are not the main house or house in which someone is
living. The going market prices for construction materials will be determined.
Alternatively, compensation will be paid in-kind for the replacement cost without
depreciation of the structure. The project will survey these prices for administrative
purposes on an ongoing basis.
Compensation will be made for structures that are:
* Abandoned because of relocation or resettlement of an individual or household,
Or
* Directly damaged by construction activities.
Replacement values will be based on:
* Drawings of individual's household and all its related structures and support
services,
* Average replacement costs of different types of household buildings and
structures based on collection of information on the numbers and types of
materials used to construct different types of structures (e.g. bricks, rafters,
bundles of straw, doors etc.),
* Prices of these items collected in different local markets,
* Costs for transportation and delivery of these items to acquired/replacement land
or building site,
* Estimates of construction of new buildings including labor required.
COMPENSATION FOR BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
Buildings and structures will be replaced by an equivalent structure or, on an exception basis, cash and/or credits will be
paid based on replacement costs.
Item                          Example
House                         Raw or Baked brick
Straw or tin roof
Varying sizes (small, medium large)
Kitchen                       Open, closed
Stables/sheds/pens            Cattle, goat, camel, sheep, other
Coops                         Chicken, duck, other
Fence                         Straw/poles (per unit poles & mat), raw and/or baked brick/cement blocks (per 1-
m length)
Private Bathing
Latrine                       Replacement latrines will be similar to those currently operational and financed by
I the bank at health centers, schools.
Open well
Storage building
Sun Screen open huts/shades
23



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK        RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
Compensation for Sacred Sites
This policy does not permit the use of land that is defined to be cultural property by the
Banks Safeguards OP 4.11. Therefore, the use of sacred sites, ritual sites, tombs and
cemeteries are not permitted under this project.
Compensation for vegetable gardens and beehives
These are planted with vegetable and ingredients for daily use. Until a replacement
garden starts to bear, the family displaced as a result of the project land needs will have
to purchase these items in the market. The replacement costs therefore, will be
calculated based on the average amount that and average town dweller spends on
buying these items for one year per adult from the local market.
Beehives are placed in various locations in the bush by some individuals that specialize
in honey gathering. If such hives would be disturbed by the project activities, or access
to hives is denied, beekeepers can move them, and the bees will adapt to the new
locations. Beekeepers would be compensated by the value of one season's production
costs of honey for each hive that is moved and any reasonable costs associated with
moving the hive.
Compensation for trees
Mango and Banana Trees
Mango and Banana trees are the primary fruit trees in the project targeted area and are
estimated to account for about 80% of all fruit bearing trees. They are primarily important
as a source of:
* Subsistence food for families
* Petty market income in some areas, and
* Shade (in the case of mango trees).
For Banana trees, they have a relatively much shorter productive life, normally, than
mango trees. Banana trees will not bear fruit more than once. Therefore, compensation
for banana trees would be compensated at the full market rates for bananas harvested
in that year and for another year. The second year payment is for the replacement cost
of planting a new tree, looking after it and harvesting it which could all be done in one
year. Therefore, the farmer should have restored his pre-project position by the end of
the second year.
Given their significance to the local subsistence economy, which this project intends to
positively impact, mango trees will be compensated on a combined replacement/market
value. Mango trees used for commercial purposes will be compensated at market value
based on historical production records. If households chose to resettle, they will be
compensated for the labor invested in the trees they leave behind, because they will
continue to own the trees left behind under customary rights. It is not uncommon for
individuals to own trees in other villages in which they formally lived and, in some cases,
to continue to harvest fruit from those trees for subsistence purposes and/or sale to
traders. If a household chooses to transfer ownership of the trees, transfer costs will be
paid in addition to labor costs. The compensation rate will be based on information
24



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONEfWORLD BANK                            RESEiTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
obtained from the socio-economic study. From this study, a compensation schedule for
mango trees can be developed incorporating the following goals:
*   Replace subsistence mango production yields as quickly as possible.
*   Provide subsistence farmers with trees to extend the number of months of the
year during which mangoes are produced and can be harvested as a
supplemental source of food for their families during their "hungry season".
*   Provide farmers with the opportunity to derive additional production income from
trees bearing more valuable fruits at off-season periods.
*   Provide cash payments to farmers to replace pre-project income derived from the
sale of excess mango production until replacement trees produce the equivalent
(or more) in projected cash income.
The compensation schedule is based on providing a combination of new grafted and
local trees to farmers, as well as cash payments to offset lost yearly income. The
schedule could assume the following ( the figures in Leones (Xno.) to be determined in
the socio-economic study):
Local Mangoes
Estimated Avg. Fruit Yield (kg) of Mature tree       800 to 1,300 kg/year
Estimated Yield used                                 Ten sacks(1,OOOkg)/tree/year
Market Price,
*   Height of harvest season (March/April)       Leone/kg
*   End of season (late May)                     Leone/kg
Price used as basis of this estimate                 80% height of season;20% end of season
Years to Production                                  Six to seven
Years to Maximum Production                          Twenty
Costs of Sapling                                      LEONE, locally available.
Grafted Mangoes
Estimated Avg. Fruit Yield (kg) of Mature tree       800 to 1,300 kg/year
Estimated Yield used                                 Almost entire yield due to market value
Market Price, (varies according to variety)
.   Height of harvest season (June/September)    LEONE/kg
Price used as basis of this estimate                 Price per fruit or sac (100kg) as quoted by growers
Years to Production                                  four to five
Years to Maximum Production                          Eight
Costs of Sapling                                      LEONE, not locally available.
Proposed Schedule for Mango Trees Cut Down
Type/Age of Tree       Est.              In-kind replacement for           Credits/Financial Support.
Years                 Local Mangoes
Sapling                   0-1     Deliver to Farmer:                                *    LEONE
Trees planted  after sub               *   Choice of two mango trees
project cut-off date in area               (local and/or improved grafted)
will not be   eligible for             *   Supplies: fencing to protect
compensation                               Tree, a bucket for watering, and a
spade.
Sapling/Young Tree        1-6     Deliver to farmer:                           Equivalent of X no. LEONE
First minor production 12-            *    Choice of two mango trees           in credits or other financial
50 fruits occurs about age                 (local and/or improved grafted)     support for labor invested in
4-5                                    .   Supplies: fencing to protect        planting, fencing, and
Tree, a bucket for watering, and a   watering, made in one
Spade                               payment.
Mango Trees               6-30+   Deliver to farmer:                           Equivalent of X no. LEONE
25



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK                           RESEYFLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
Fruit Producing                      .    Choice of two mango trees          in credits or other financial
(local and/or improved grafted)     support for labor invested in
Supplies: fencing to protect        planting, fencing, and
Tree, a bucket for watering, and a  watering, made in one
spade                               payment.
Equivalent of X no. LEONE
in credits or other financial
support, representing eight
years, (8 years x 10 sacks x
X LEONE/sack) lost
income/subsistence until
replacement trees begin
production.
This rate to be agreed by
farmers.
Total: Equivalent of X no.
LEONE in cash or
equivalent financial support
to be paid in one
installment.
Mature Trees - Low or     30+     Same as for mature trees above              Same as above
Non- Fruit Producing
No compensation will be paid for minor pruning of trees. Compensation for removal of
limbs will be prorated on the basis of the number of square metres of surface area
removed. The total surface area of the tree will be calculated using the following formula:
( 1/2 diameter of canopy )2 x 3.14.
Other domestic fruit and shade trees.
These trees have recognized local market values, depending upon the species and age.
Individual compensation for wild trees "owned" by individuals which are located in lands
as defined in this policy will be paid. Note that wild, productive trees belong to the
community when they occur in the true bush as opposed to a fallow land. These trees
will be compensated for under the umbrella of the village or community compensation.
INDIVIDUAL COMPENSATION
Sub-Category                           Unit                       Compensation Value
(X no. of LEONE)
foodstuffs & others                    1 town lot
N/a                             1 town lot
Domestic Fruit Trees
Non-productive
Avocado                           productive
Non-productive
Planktain                         productive
Lemon                          Non-productive
productive
Pineapple                        Non-productive
Lima                         Non-productive
Lime                            Productive
Non-productive
Orange                            Productive
Grapefruit                       Non-productive
Non-productive
Papaya                            productive
Shade Trees
Young
adult
26



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK             RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
Individual Owned Wild Productive Trees
Palm Kernel               Non- productive
Productive
Non-productive
Coconut                   Productive
Mango Trees
2 saplings & equipment              0-1 year        |_X
2 saplings & equipment              1-6 years
2 saplings & equipment              6+ years
Catch                  Demonstrable loss         according to case
Kitchen Garden
Beehive
H. Organizational procedures for the delivery of entitlements, including,
for projects involving private sector intermediaries, the
responsibilities of the financial intermediary, the government, and
the private developer.
Compensation (and resettlement) will be funded like any other activity eligible under the
projects' administrative and financial management rules and manuals
Funding would be processed and effected through the Finance unit of the Ministry of
Health and Sanitation (MOHS). The unit is headed by a Finance Director who has
responsibility for all financial management issues in the ministry and is assisted by a
deputy responsible for management accounting and a manager in charge of financial
accounting.
The compensation process which will involve several steps would be in accordance with
the individual project resettlement plans, significantly;
*  Public Participation with the local communities would initiate the compensation
process as part of an ongoing process that would have started at the land
selection/screening  stage.  This   would   ensure   that   no   affected
individual/household is simply "notified" one day that they are affected in this
way. Instead, this process seeks their involvement and wishes to  inform
communities in a participatory approach with the project, from the beginning as
outlined in item k. of this report.
*  Notification of land resource holders - the respective Paramount Chief having
been involved in identifying the land it requires will notify the section chief, town
chief and village chief and village inhabitants who will help to identify and locate
the property users. The user will be informed through both a formal notification in
writing and, for as many people are illiterate, by verbal notification delivered in
the presence of the village chief or his representative. In addition, the paramount
chief, village chiefs, religious leaders, other elders and individuals who control
fishing areas, wild trees, or beehives will accompany the survey teams to identify
sensitive areas.
27



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONEJWORLD BANK          RESETILEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
* Documentation of Holdings and Assets - village and project officials2 to
arrange meetings with affected individuals and/or households to discuss the
compensation process. For each individual or household affected, the project
officials completes a compensation dossier containing necessary personal
information on, the affected party and those that s/he claims as household
members, total land holdings, inventory of assets affected, and information for
monitoring their future situation. This information is confirmed and witnessed by
village officials, Dossiers will be kept current and will include documentation of
lands surrendered. This is necessary because it is one way in which an individual
can be monitored over time. All claims and assets will be documented in writing.
* Agreement on Compensation and Preparation of Contracts - All types of
compensation are clearly explained to the individual or household. The LAT (land
acquisition team) draws up a contract listing all property and land being
surrendered, and the types of compensation (cash and/or in-kind) selected. A
person selecting in-kind compensation has an order form which is signed and
witnessed. The compensation contract is read aloud in the presence of the
affected party and the Paramount Chief ,village officials and other village leaders
prior to signing.
* Compensation Payments - All handing over of property such as land and
buildings and compensation payments will be made in the presence of the
affected party and the village officials.
Community Compensation Payments
Community compensation will be in-kind only for a community as a whole in the form of
reconstruction of the facility to at least the same standard or equivalent better standard
to that being built by local NGO's on the area to serve the same function. Examples of
community compensation include;
* School Building (public or religious)
* Public Toilets
* Well or Pump
* Market Place
* Road
* Storage warehouse
Community compensation may in itself require land take and people may be
affected, thus a change of impacts which will be compensated for.
2The project officials responsible for delivery of entitlements also be the LATplusPC and the village
officials would be the village chief, religious leaders, leaders under communal, family and individual tenure
under customary law.
28



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK         RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
1. A description of the implementation process, linking resettlement
implementation to civil works.
Before any project activity is implemented, people who are being affected by such
activity, will need to be compensated in accordance with the resettlement policy
framework. For projects involving land acquisition, it is further required that these
measures include provision of compensation and of other assistance required for
relocation, prior to displacement, and preparation and provision of resettlement sites with
adequate facilities, where required. In particular, the taking of land and related assets
may take place only after compensation has been paid and, where applicable,
resettlement sites and moving allowances have been provided to displaced persons. For
project activity requiring relocation or loss of shelter, the policy further requires that
measures to assist the displaced persons are implemented in accordance with the
individual resettlement plan of action.
The measures to ensure compliance with this policy directive would be included in the
resettlement plans that would be prepared for each land involving resettlement or
compensation. When the LAT present their resettlement plans to the PMT (project
management team) for approval, part of the screening process that the PMT would use
to approve recommended land would be to confirm that the resettlement plans contain
acceptable measures that link resettlement activity to civil works in compliance with this
policy. The timing mechanism of these measures would ensure that no individual or
affected household would be displaced due to civil works activity before compensation is
paid and resettlement sites with adequate facilities are prepared and provided for to the
individual or household affected. Once the resettlement plan is approved by the local
and national authorities, the resettlement plan should be sent to the World Bank for final
review and approval.
J. A DESCRIPTION OF GRIEVANCE REDRESS MECHANISMS.
At the time that the individual resettlement plans are approved and individual
compensation contracts are signed, affected individuals would have been informed of
the process for expressing dissatisfaction and to seek redress. The grievance procedure
will be simple, administered as far as possible at the local level to facilitate access,
flexible and open to various proofs taking into cognizance the fact most people are
illiterate requiring a speedy, just and fair resolution of their grievances. The LAT being a
party to the contract would not be the best office to receive, handle and rule on disputes.
Therefore, taking these concerns into account , all grievances concerning non-fulfillment
of contracts, levels of compensation, or seizure of assets without compensation should
be addressed to the existing local courts system of administration of justice. The
Paramount chief is the highest appellate "judge" in this system.
In the local cultures it takes people time to decide that they are aggrieved and want to
complain . Therefore, the grievance procedures will give people up to the end of the
next full agricultural season after surrendering their assets to set forth their case.
All attempts would be made to settle grievances. Those seeking redress and wishing to
state grievances would so by notifying their village chief and the District Officer (DO).
The DO will consult with the Paramount Chief, Section Chief, Town Chief and Village
chief and elders and other records to determine a claims validity. If valid, the village chief
29



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK         RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ISRDP)
will notify the complainant and s/he will be settled. If the complainants claim is rejected,
then the matter will be brought before the local courts for settlement. If the matter
cannot be settled by the local courts, the matter will go the paramount chief for
resolution. The decision of the paramount chief would be final and all such decisions
must be reached within a full growing season after the complaint is lodged. If a complaint
pattern emerges, the paramount chief and the DO with village leaders will discuss
possible remediation. The local leaders will be required to give advice concerning the
need for revisions to procedures. Once the DO, paramount chief and village leaders
agree on necessary and appropriate changes, then a written description of the changed
process will be made. The DO, paramount chief and village leaders will be responsible
for communicating any changes to the population.
K.    A description of the arrangements for funding resettlement,
including the preparation and review of cost estimates, the flow of funds,
and contingency arrangements.
The estimate of the overall cost of resettlement would be determined during the socio-
economic study. The Government of Sierra Leone would have to finance the
resettlement compensation. However, the World Bank may at the request of the
Government of Sierra Leone, support certain activities in the resettlement plans
providing;
(a) assistance to assess and strengthen resettlement policies, strategies and/or
legal frameworks
(b) financing of technical assistance to strengthen the capacities of agencies
responsible for resettlement, or of affected people to participate more
effectively in resettlement operations
(c) financing of technical assistance for implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of resettlement activities
(d) financing of the investment costs of resettlement.
The Bank does not disburse against cash compensation and other resettlement
assistance paid in cash, or against the cost of land (including compensation for land
acquisition). However, it may finance the cost of land improvement associated with
resettlement activities.
L. A description of mechanisms for consultations with, and participation of,
displaced persons in planning, implementation, and monitoring.
Public consultation and participation are essential because they afford potential
displaced persons the opportunity to contribute to both the design and implementation of
the project activities. The socio-economic situation prevailing in Sierra Leone as
discussed earlier, makes public consultation with the communities, indispensable.
Furthermore, it is the local communities who are to claim ownership of this project for it
to be successful and their wealth of knowledge of local conditions are invaluable assets
to the project. In recognition of this, particular attention would be paid to public
30



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK          RESETrLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
consultation with potentially affected individuals/households when resettlement concerns
are involved.
Public consultation will take place at the inception of the project at the level of and
assisted by local NGO's, leaders, elders and service providers. The participation
strategy would evolve around the provision of a full opportunity for involvement. This
process would not be an isolated one because of the very nature of the project, which
through its implementation and design ensures continuous public participation and
involvement at the local level. Therefore, as a matter of strategy, public consultation
would be an on-going activity taking place through out the entire project cycle. For
example, public consultation would also occur during the preparation of the; (i) the socio-
economic study, (ii) the resettlement plan and (ii) the environmental impact assessment
and (iv) during the drafting and reading of the compensation contract.
Public participation and consultation would take place through meetings, radio
programmes, request for written proposals/comments, filling in of questionnaires/forms,
public readings and explanations of project ideas and requirements, making public
documents available at the, district, chiefdom, section, town and village levels at suitable
locations like the official residences/offices of local chiefs/elders. These measures would
take into account the low literacy levels prevalent in these communities by allowing
enough time for responses and feedback.
Notwithstanding, the best guarantor for public interest is the chiefs who are responsible
members of their local communities and can inadvertently be part of the potentially
displaced individuals/households either in part or in whole.
Monitoring of this process would be through the village chief as part of the individual
resettlement plans and overall the monitoring and evaluation mechanism of the entire
project.
This requirement is line with the Bank policy on disclosure.
31



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK        RESEITLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
M. Arrangements for monitoring by the implementation agency and, if
required, by independent monitors.
The arrangements for monitoring would fit the overall monitoring plan of the entire
HSRDP project which would be through the Ministry of Health and Sanitation.
The objective will be to make a final evaluation in order to determine if the people who
were affected by the project have been affected in such a way that they are now living a
higher standard than before, living at the same standard as before, or they are
they are actually poorer than before. A number of indicators would be used in order to
determine the status of affected people (land being used compare to before, standard of
house compared to before, how many kids in school compared to before, health
standards, etc). Therefore, the resettlement plans will set two major socio-economic
goals by which to evaluate its success:
* Affected individuals, households, and communities are able to maintain their pre-
project standard of living, and even improve on it; and
* The local communities remain supportive of the project.
In order to access whether these goals are met, the resettlement plans will indicate
parameters to be monitored, institute monitoring milestones and provide resources
necessary to carry out the monitoring activities.
The following parameters and verifiable indicators will be used to measure the
resettlement plans performance;
* Questionnaire data will be entered into a database for comparative analysis at
the DO levels,
*  Each individual will have a compensation dossier recording his or her initial
situation, all subsequent project use of assets/improvements, and compensation
agreed upon and received.
* The project will maintain a complete database on every individual impacted by
the project land use requirements including relocation/resettlement, land impacts
or damages
*  Percentage of individuals selecting cash or a combination of cash and in-kind
compensation,
* Proposed use of payments
* The number of contention cases out of the total cases
* The number of grievances and time and quality of resolution
* Ability of individuals and families to re-establish land and crops or other
alternative incomes
* Agricultural productivity of new lands
* Number of impacted locals employed by the contracted waste management
companies
* Seasonal or inter annual fluctuation on key foodstuffs'
* General relations between the project and the local communities
32



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK                RESEYFLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM]ENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
The following indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate the implementation of
resettlements plans;
VERIFIABLE INDICATORS
Monitoring                                 Evaluation
Outstanding compensation or resettlement contracts  Outstanding individual compensation or resettlement
not completed before next agricultural season.  contracts.
Communities unable to set village-level    Outstanding village compensation contracts.
compensation after two years.
Grievances recognized as legitimate out of all  All legitimate grievances rectified
complaints lodged.
Pre- project production and income ( year before  Affected individuals and/or households
land used) versus present production and income of  compensated or resettled in first year who have
resettlers, off-farm-income trainees, and users of  maintained their previous standard of living at final
improved agricultural techniques.          evaluation.
Pre- project production versus present production (  Equal or improved production per household.
crop for crop, land for land).
Financial records will be maintained by the Director of Finance at the MOHS to permit
calculation of the final cost of resettlement per individual or household. Each individual
receiving compensation will have a dossier containing;
* Individual biological information,
* Number of people s/he claims as household dependents
* Amount of land available to the individual or household when the dossier is
opened.
Additional   information   will   be    acquired   for    individuals  eligible  for
resettlement/compensation:
* Level of income and of production
* Inventory of material assets and improvements in land, and
* Debts.
Each time land is used by the project, the dossier will be updated to determine if the
individual or household is being affected to the point of economic non-viability and
eligibility for compensation/resettlement or its alternatives. These dossiers will provide
the foundation for monitoring and evaluation, as well as documentation of compensation
agreed to, received, and signed for.
It is normal that some compensation procedures and rates may require revision at some
time during the project cycle. The MOHS and DO will implement changes through the
Change Management Process in the Monitoring and Evaluation manuals of the project,
which will require feed back from:
* Indicators monitored by the DO to determine whether goals are being met, and
* a grievance procedure for the local community to express dissatisfaction about
implementation of compensation and resettlement.
During the preparation of this framework, it was agreed that the Department of
Environment (DE), in Sierra Leone is structured into the whole M&E component of the
project. This would take the form of giving the DE the mandate to carry out independent
33



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK         RESEYTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
monitoring of the implementation of the resettlement plans at periodic intervals of
quarterly or half yearly (as circumstances dictate) during the project life from date of
date of project effectiveness. Their report would then be sent to the PMT of the MOH
and become part of the official documents of the project .
34



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK            RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
Annexe A           Aide M6moire
35



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK       RESET1LEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
WORLDBANK/GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PREPARATION MISSION BY JAMES 0. MONDAY, WORLD BANK
CONSULTANT SEPTEMBER 16thto 20th 2002
FOR THE PREPARARTION OF THE RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
AIDE MEMOIRE
Mission Obmective.
The purpose of this mission was to assist the Government of Sierra Leone in preparing a
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), as required by World Bank OP4.12. The
preparation of the RPF and disclosure of this document is a conditionality for Bank
appraisal of this project .
Mission Terms of Reference
This included a visit to Sierra Leone to discuss and to sensitize government
officials and other stake holders in this project and to also gather relevant data,
information and documentation to facilitate the preparation of the RPF. The full
mission TOR is attached herewith.
Work Schedule
Friday September 13th 2002     Arrival of World Bank consultant.
Saturday September 14th   Brief introductory meeting with Mr. M. Sande
Director of Finance, and planning of work
schedule and activities.
Monday September 16th     Meetings with Mr. Duroseme Thompson, Senior
Parliamentary Counsel from Ministry of Justice,
Mr. Steven J. Jusu , Director of Environment
Mr. M. Sande, Director of Finance.
Tuesday September 17th    Meetings with The Hon. Mrs. Agnes Taylor Lewis,
Minister of Health and Sanitation
Dr. Noah Conteh - Director General of Medical
Services
Mr; Alusine Kallon, Director Planning ,Evaluation,
Monitoring and Statistics Division, Ministry of Agric.
36



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK        RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
Wednesday September 18th   Site Visit to Moyamba District
Thursday September 19th  Information and documentation gathering ,collation
and editing.
Friday September 20th      Discussion and presentation of Aide Memoire
Departure of Consultant
37



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK     RESEiTLEMENT POLICY FRAMIEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
Minutes of Meeting Held on September 16th 2002 at Law Offices, Guma
Building, Lamina Sankoh Street, Freetown, Sierra Leone.
Those Present: Mr. D. Durosime Thompson - Senior Parliamentary Counsel
Ministry of Justice
Mr. Albert Patewa -    Project Accountant
Ministry of Health and Sanitation
Mr. James Monday - Consultant, The World Bank
1. The purpose of this meeting is to continue the consultative process with
the Government of Sierra Leone (GOSL) during the preparation of this
project and to prepare the Resettlement Policy Framework.
2. The World Bank Consultant (WBC) started the meeting by briefly
explaining in general terms the components of the HSRDP and the
Environmental and Social Safeguards Policies of the Bank, and further
explained that the implementation of the Sanitation sub component of the
project would trigger the policy on Involuntary Resettlement OP.4.12,
which therefore required the preparation of a Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) to be disclosed by the GOSL and the Bank prior to
project appraisal, which is scheduled for Oct. 2002.
3. The key features of OP4.12 were explained. It was further explained that
the contents of the RPF included the review of the national laws (statue
and customary) governing the acquisition of land and other economic
assets, analysis of the discrepancies among various legal national
instruments and those between the Bank policy OP4.12 with proposals to
bridge these gaps, the structure of the decentralized law administration
and existing legal decentralized structures for administering customary
law requirements.
4. The Senior Parliamentary Counsel (SPC) gave a very detailed
presentation of the Laws of Sierra Leone governing land administration.
He highlighted that there are significantly two different sources for land
administration in the country. In the capital city of Freetown and its
environs in the western area of Sierra Leone, the source is contained in
Statute and for the rest of the country, Statute co-existed in parallel with
Customary Law and where there was a conflict between the two, Statute
governed.
38



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK      RESETULEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
5. The SPC stated that Customary Law was defined by the Constitution, Act
No. 12 1978 and the Local Courts act, 1963. In both statutes, the
emphasis is on the geographical criterion.
6. When Statute is applicable (i.e.western area), the most significant laws
which are potentially relevant for the preparation of the RPF were:
i)    Law of Property Act 1925
ii)  Interpretation Act no. 8 of 1971
iii)  Public Health Act no. 23 of 1960
iv)   Public Lands Act no. 116
v)    Land Compensation Act.
vi)   Provinces Land Act, Cap 122
vii)  Local Courts Act
7. The SPC pointed out certain features of Customary Law in Sierra Leone
which included;
i)    Land could never be owned under free hold rights and
therefore by implication would always revert back to the
chiefdom.
ii)   Land was separate form Structures on the Land such
as houses etc. Land can never be owned freehold, only
structures on the land could be owned. So in theory the
option is there under customary law to "take" the
structures with you when you leave the land when it
reverts back to the chiefdom.
iii)  There is not a single customary law. Customary law
may vary form chiefdom to chiefdom and district to
district.
8. The SPC went on to inform the meeting that a bill was either before
parliament now or was recently passed by parliament entitled " The Sierra
Leone Waste Disposal Authority Bill (Act) ", establishing this authority and
setting its modus operandi.
9. A long and detailed conversation ensued whereby various details of the
various statutes and customary laws were examined .
10.The meeting ended by the SPC making special arrangements with the
Law School library for copies of the above listed statutes to be made
available to the WBC.
39



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK     RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
Minutes of Meeting held on September 16th 2002 at the Offices of the
Director of Environment, 3rd Floor, Youyi Building, Freetown, Sierra Leone.
Those Present: Mr. Steven Jusu - Director of Environment Department,
Ministry of Environment
Mr. Bendu Edward - Environment Officer
Ministry of Environment
Mr. Albert Patewa - Project Accountant
Ministry of Health and Sanitation
Mr. James Monday - Consultant, The World Bank
11.The purpose of this meeting is to continue the consultative process with
the Government of Sierra Leone (GOSL) during the preparation of this
project and to prepare the Resettlement Policy Framework .
12.The World Bank Consultant (WBC) started the meeting by briefly
explaining in general terms the components of the HSRDP and the
Environmental and Social Safeguards Policies of the Bank, and further
explained that the implementation of the Sanitation sub component of the
project would trigger the policy on Involuntary Resettlement OP4.12,
which therefore required the preparation of a Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) to be disclosed by the GOSL and the Bank prior to
project appraisal, which is scheduled for Oct. 2002.
13.The key features of OP4.12 were explained. It was further explained that
the contents of the RPF included the review of the National Environment
Policy and the Environment Protection Act 2002 of Sierra Leone and to
address any gaps between the national Policy/Act and OP4.12 by
suggesting ways to bridge them.
14.The WBC explained the need for an ongoing consultative process with
potentially impacted people in a participatory approach in planning,
implementation and monitoring and advised them to embark on that
process if they had not already done so.
15.The WBC requested the Director to share past resettlement experiences
of his department with him.
16.The Director of Environment (DE) explained the key features of the
Environment Protection Act which included requirements for the carrying
out of an Environmental Assessment/Analyses which is to be reviewed
40



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONEIVORLD BANK     RESE1TLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
and approved by The National Environment Protection Board before
projects were approved by the GOSL.
17. The WBC explained that those impacted by the project according to
OP4.12 were not limited to those who had to be physically
relocated/resettled. But included those impacted by loss of shelter, loss of
assets or access to assets important to production, the loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, or the loss of access to locations that
provide higher income sources or lower expenditures to business or
persons. Therefore, it became apparent that there is a considerable gap
between the GOSL's requirements/definitions for project impacted
persons and OP4.12. The WBC explained that the requirements of
OP4.12 were mandatory and would therefore have to govern if this project
is to be approved by the Bank.
18.The DE explained that the Ministry was empowered by the Environment
Protection Act 2000 to carry out compulsory land acquisition with
compensation for legal holders of the land. The WBC highlighted that the
Bank OP4.12 made no difference between legal or illegal impacted people
in terms of eligibility for benefits ( i.e. they are all eligible for some form of
benefits) provided they were occupying the project area by a cut-off date
established by the GOSL and acceptable to the bank. Only persons who
encroached on the area after the cut-off date are deemed not entitled to
any form of benefits.
19.The WBC at this point gave a copy of OP.12 to the DE for his records.
20. The DE explained that his department had considerable experiences with
resettlement of people in the past. Notably, those involving the Rutile
Mining Company Ltd. and the local communities in which they operated.
21.The issue of providing within the project an appropriate mechanism for
monitoring the implementation of resettlement was discussed at length. It
was agreed that the Dept. of Environment would be the best qualified
institution of government to carry out this exercise. A number of ways of
bringing in the Dept. into the overall project administration for monitoring
was discussed. It was further agreed that a simple, non cumbersome and
inexpensive way to achieve this objective was the best way forward. Thus
the following two options were agreed for presentation to and discussion
with the Ministry of Health and Sanitation officials for inclusion in the
project monitoring administration structure;
1. have a representative from the Department of
Environment  as  a   member   of the   Project
Management Team.
41



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK      RESETrLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
and/or
2. assign an environmental officer from the Department
of   Environment to carry out an   independent
monitoring exercise at period intervals of quarterly or
half yearly during the project life from date of project
effectiveness (similar to the role of the financial
auditor).
22.The DE made available copies of the National Environment Policy and
The Environment Protection Act 2000 to the WBC.
42



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK      RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
IEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
Minutes of Meeting Held on September 18th 2002 at District Headoff ice,
Moyamba, Moyamba District, Sierra Leone.
Those Present: Mr. Raymond Bindi - District Officer, Moyamba District
Mr. Joseph S. L. Cole - Ag. District Health Superintendent
Moyamba District
Mr. Mohamed K. Kpevai - Senior Health Superintendent
Mr. James Monday - Consultant, The World Bank
23.The purpose of this meeting is to continue the consultative process with
the Government of Sierra Leone (GOSL) during the preparation of this
project and to prepare the Resettlement Policy Framework, and in
particular to discuss mechanisms for consultation with the local
communities who would be impacted by this project.
24.The World Bank Consultant (WBC) started the meeting by briefly
explaining in general terms the components of the HSRDP and the
Environmental and Social Safeguards Policies of the Bank, and further
explained that the implementation of the Sanitation sub component of the
project would trigger the policy on Involuntary Resettlement OP.4.12,
which therefore required the preparation of a Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) to be disclosed by the GOSL and the Bank prior to
project appraisal, which is scheduled for Oct. 2002.
25.The key features of OP4.12 were explained. The WBC further explained
that the contents of the RPF included methods to ensure that displaced
persons were meaningfully consulted and are part of the planning and
implementation processes. They should not just find out "one morning"
that they were being displaced. The WBC explained that the purpose of
his visit to Moyamba was, to continue the process of consultation with the
local authorities who were required by OP4.12 to involve the local
communities.
26.The District Officer (DO) was very receptive to these requirements and
promised to involve the communities through the respective Paramount
Chiefs, who were the administrative heads of their chiefdoms, under
customary law.
27.The DO suggested various ways in which that might occur, especially at
the land selection stages. An interesting discussion ensued and it was
43



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK      RESEYrLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
decided to promote the idea to the MOHS of first identifying a number of
potential land fill sites in the respective districts and then subsequently
start the consultation process with the communities when potential sites
were identified. Thereafter, their full participation was to be maintained
through out the planning process that would lead to the final approval of a
particular site. The importance of establishing a cut-off date as soon as
the site was approved, with the full participation of communities was
discussed. It was generally felt that this method would be the best so as
not to cause panic and stress on the communities/chiefdoms that are not
even being considered.
28. The DO saw his role as pivotal in all of this and the WBC emphasized that
during the implementation of this project, the consultative process would
have to be maintained for the implementation of the resettlements plans,
the redress mechanisms ( established which would be based on
customary law) and during the phase in which the displaced persons
would be monitored.
Points of Discussion with;
The Hon. Mrs. Agnes Taylor Lewis, Minister of Health and Sanitation
The World Bank Consultant was accompanied by the Director of Finance at the MOHS
to pay a courtesy call on the Hon. Minister. The Minister was briefed on the objectives of
the mission and was given a general summary on the requirements and contents of the
RPF.
The Hon. Minister was very welcoming and assured us of her Ministry's
continued support .
Dr. Noah Conteh, Director General of Health Services
The World Bank consultant briefed Dr. Conteh on the progress of his mission,
especially on discussions he had the previous day with the Department of
Environment and the need to bring them into the overall administration of the
project. Particular emphasis was placed on the need to bring the Dept. of Env. in
on the Land acquisition process, the screening processes resulting in land
selection, the preparation of the resettlement plans and the monitoring and
evaluation side of the project. Discussions were held on the specific
requirements of the OP 4.12 to involve the potentially displaced persons in a
consultative process during the planning, implementation and M&E phases of the
implementation of the project.
It was agreed that the Dept. of Env. should be brought in albeit in a simple but
effective process. This could take the form of setting up an adhoc committee
44



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONEIWORLD BANK      RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
include representatives of the Dept. of Env. and MOHS in the land identification
and selection process. On the M&E side it was felt that the simplest form could
be to get the Dept. of Env. to carryout M&E exercises an a quarterly or half yearly
basis and given the mandate to prepare there report of findings and
recommendations for the Project Management Team (i.e. They would operate
like an independent financial auditor would do when auditing financial accounts.)
The Director of Planninag Ministry of Agriculture - Mr. Alusine Kallon
The Director was briefed on the project and he provided the World Bank consultant with
the market prices data for all farm produce in Sierra Leone.
Deliverables and Points of Action
1) The World bank consultant to submit  a Draft Resettlement Policy
Framework to the TTL at the World Bank in Washington DC on Monday
September 23rd 2002.
2) The Government of Sierra Leone to review, comment and finally approve
the Resettlement Policy Framework, before appraisal.
45



GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/WORLD BANK           RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HSRDP)
Annexe A     -     Map of Sierra Leone
46



