Sierra Leone
HIVIAIDS Response Project (SHARP)
&
Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project (HSRDP)
Waste Management Plan
OCTOBER 2002
By
John Tommy
Page I of 60



Table of Contents
PAGE
Acronyms                                                                                3
1. Preface                                                                              4
2. Executive summary                                                                    5
3. Introduction                                                                         7
3.1. The country (post-conflict situation)                                           7
3.2. Sierra Leone HIlV/AIDS Response Project (SHARP)                                 7
3.3. Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project (HSRDP)                    8
3.4. Project Description                                                             8
3.5. Health Care Waste Management (HCWM) policies, practices and challenges         9
3.6. Existing institutional arrangements                                           21
4. The HCWM Plan                                                                       23
4.l.1.Objectives and purpose of the plan                                        23
4.1.2.Target groups and benefits                                                23
4.1.3.Key interventions (activities) per objectives, performance indicators     24
4.1.4.Risks and mitigating actions                                              25
4.1.5. Implementation strategy/methodology                                      26
4.1.6. Institutional arrangements and implementation responsibilities           29
(a) Institutional arrangements                                           29
(b) Implementation responsibilities                                      29
(c) Implementation coordination                                          30
4.2 Implementation schedule/plan                                                       31
4.3 HCWM Plan implementation monitoring and evaluation                                 36
4.4.1 Monitoring activities and strategy                                    36
4.4.2 Evaluation activities and strategy                                    36
4.4.3 Reporting                                                             36
5. Annexes:                                                                            37
1. Tables on healthcare facilities in Sierra Leone                                 37
2. Monitoring Plan                                                                 40
3. Persons and Institutions Contacted                                              41
4. References                                                                      42
5. The Self-learning process                                                       43
6. Criteria for selection, development, and operations of sanitary landfill sites  45
7. General guidelines for the management of healthcare wastes                      49
8. The De Mont fort family of medical waste incinerators                           59
9. Healthcare Waste Management Training Plan                                       60
Page 2 of 60



ACRONYMS
ADA           Area Development Association
ADC           Area Development Committee
ARG           Aids Response Group (ARG)
CBO           Community Based Organisation
DHMT          District Health Management Team
EA            Environmental Assessment
EHD           Environmental Health Division
NEPA          Environmental Protection Act
EPD           Environment Protection Department
FCC           Freetown City Council
MLHCPE       Ministry of Lands, Housing, Country Planning and the Environment
MOHS          Ministry of Health and Sanitation
NaCSA         National Commission for Social Action
NGO           Non Governmental Organisation
NMCP          National Malaria Control Programme
OCHA          Organisation for the Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance
OCP           Onchocerciasis Control Programme
SHARP         Sierra Leone WHV/AIDS Response Group
WB            World Bank
Page 3 of 60



Preface
This Waste Management Plan (WMP) is prepared in accordance with the requirement of the World Bank for the
Sierra Leone HIV/AIDS Response Project (SHARP) and Health Sector Reconstruction and Development
Project (HSRDP). This plan is intended for both projects.
This plan is prepared as a guideline for all those involved in the implementation of SHARP and HSRDP, this
includes primarily the Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS), National HIV/AIDS Secretariat (NAS),
Health Sector AIDS Response Group (ARG) local and foreign NGOs and the private sector who would
participate in the implementation of the projects, especially the SHARP. It describes the general waste
management issues (with particular emphasis on healthcare waste) in Sierra Leone, objectives and
implementation strategy for all institutions and persons to be involved and available inputs and resources to
successfully implement the plan in an efficient and effective manner over the next 5 year period.
The content of this document is subject to change during implementation depending on the implementation
experience, problems faced and changes in strategies. However, amendments/additions to the document will be
subject to the MOHS, NAS and the World Bank's agreement.
Page 4 of 60



2. Executive summary
The medical waste study (November 2001) established the need to for a comprehensive waste management plan
for Sierra Leone.
Healthcare waste is total waste stream from Healthcare-Waste (HCW) generators, major and scattered sources.
It may be solid (hazardous or non-hazardous) or liquid
SOLID WASTE - Typically composed of,
1. 75-90% is general waste similar to domestic waste and may follow the normal municipal waste
stream.
2. 10-25% is hazardous (infectious, toxic, etc) and must be segregated and treated with care to prevent
associated risk. This category of waste can be subjected to incineration under supervision by trained
staff.
Presently these categorises are mixed together and disposed of indiscriminately.  The resultant negative
consequences cannot be overemphasised. Hence, there is need for this Comprehensive National Medical Waste
Management Plan for Sierra Leone.
This action plan for all levels, from chiefdom to national is part of the Sierra Leone Government's process of
developing a HIV/AIDS Response Project (SHARP) and a Health Sector Reconstruction and Development
Project (HSRDP). It was executed on behalf of the Ministry of Health and Sanitation, Sierra Leone.
Current situation
From a health and environmental point of view, the following summarized problems were identified.
*  Lack of policy, legal framework, guidelines and effective control
* Lack of focused health education and staff training, concerning waste management, particularly medical
wastes.
*  Deficiency of appropriate equipment and materials.
*  Unhygienic handling of wastes within hospitals, posing a threat to health of personnel, patients and
visitors.
*  Improper handling of wastes by waste handlers, exposing these wastes to scavengers, and causing a
serious threat not only to their own health but also to that of the general public and the environment.
* Open dumping and or burning.
Plan of implementation
I. Advocacy at national level to ensure government commitment and financial support,
2. Train staff of the environmental health division in supervision,
3. Develop modules for training; the prevention of Nosocomial infections and healthcare waste
management,
4. Training of Trainers (TOT) for all levels,
5. Organize training at District and Chiefdom levels for healthcare workers on the risk associated with
Nosocomial infections and the preventive measures,
6. Organize training at District and Chiefdom levels for waste-handlers.
Strategies
*  Strengthen the Clinical Waste and Occupational Safety Unit of the EHD
* Advocacy at national level to secure government commitment.
*  Develop a national policy and regulatory framework on waste management
*  Integrate waste minimization into national purchasing policies.
*  Make instruments to develop plan of action with practical targets and budget for the health institutions
Page 5 of 60



*  Develop educational materials and training modules
*  Organize training at District and Chiefdom levels for healthcare workers and the community on the risk
associated with healthcare waste and safe management practices, with priority for waste-handlers;
*  Make available the materials to facilitate medical waste management.
*  Ensure that all healthcare establishments segregate their waste into harmful and non-harmful categories;
*  Ensure that all healthcare establishments implement safe handling, storage, transportation, treatment and
disposal options;
*  Include healthcare waste management and prevention of Nosocomial infection into the training curricula
of Nurses, Public Health Inspectors, Community Health Officers and Doctors;
*  Ensure routine monitoring of impact through process indicators.
Key partners in the implementation of this plan include but not limited to: Ministries of Health and Land,
Housing, and the Environment, non-governmental organizations, and waste producers. The target groups are
health workers, medical waste handlers, scavengers, municipal waste handlers, managers of healthcare
institutions and the general public.
The EHD of MOHS has the statutory responsibility for the safe management of waste (including medical)
nationwide. Presently, medical wastes are mixed with municipal waste and disposed of indiscriminately. The
existing system of municipal waste collection (public skips and skip trucks) in Freetown has been appraised
(Freetown Waste Management Study, Junel995) as economical. It should be improved and elaborated to ensure
the safe management of healthcare waste and replicated in the Districts.
A combination of both sanitary landfill and incineration is considered for the comprehensive waste
(municipal and healthcare) treatment and or final disposal option for the Sierra Leone situation.
New land will be acquiredfor purposes of District landfill sites development; hence involuntary resetlement
of relocated socio-economic activities (farming, societal bushes etc) is possible. Consequently compensation
will be inevitable. There is no national policy on involuntary resettlement, however, HSRDP is developing
one for Sierra Leone, which can be of benefit to this project.
3. Introduction
Page 6 of 60



3.1 The country (post-conflict situation)
The ten-year old conflict (1991 to 2001) has been accompanied by a deterioration of the health status of majority
of Sierra Leoneans. The Human Development Report, July2000, estimates a life expectancy of 37.9 years.
Sierra Leone ranks last in the world in quality of life with a per capita income of US$448.
The healthcare delivery system is divided into National, District, and Chiefdom levels. The epidemiological
picture is characterised by a high prevalence of communicable diseases like malaria, respiratory tract and skin
infections. There is an explosion of sexually transmitted infections, and data trends suggest an emerging
epidemic of HlV/AIDS. According to Ministry of Health and Sanitation sources, over half the healthcare
facilities country-wide do not function due to a variety of reasons that include damaged infrastructure, lack of
staff, lack of drugs, and medical supplies. The Ministry of Health and Sanitation expects that the thrust of their
activities for 2002 will be targeted at rehabilitating the devastated healthcare services, and extending them to
newly accessible areas countrywide.
Large and small healthcare facilities, home healthcare, drug users, as well as research and industrial operations
generate medical waste. It presents a high risk to human health and the environment because of the hazardous
and infectious characteristics of some of its components. The patients and the personnel who handle the waste
inside share these risks. Outside the healthcare establishments, the risks are increased due to the non-
homogenous nature and the presence of sharp objects such as syringes and scalpels; blades or broken glass that
may cause infected injuries. Please see Annex I(Tables of Healthcare Facilities in Sierra Leone).
3.2 Sierra Leone HIV/AEDS Response Project (SHARP)
The Sierra Leone HIV/AIDS Response Project will assist the Government of Sierra Leone organize a response
to the growing Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIY) which causes the Acquired Immune Deficiency
Syndrome (AIDS), in short HIV/AIDS. In accordance with the main goal of the SHARP the development
objectives of this four-year project in Sierra Leone are to (a) contribute to reducing HIV/AIDS prevalence and
(b) mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS on persons infected or affected by HIV/AIDS. It will do so through a
multi-sector approach, facilitating activities undertaken in various sectors by public and private organizations,
and by communities in the fight against HIV/AIDS. Project-supported activities will complement government,
donor, and private sector initiatives. These activities will vary by sector and the specific partner, but will be
consistent with the national policy against HIV/AIDS, and premised on the development and expansion of local
responses to the epidemic.
In collaboration with other members of the International Partnership Against AIDS in Africa (IPAA), the project
will help step up and mainstream the national response against HIV/AIDS, and an array of related infections,
including sexually transmitted infections (STIs), Tuberculosis (TB), and other opportunistic infections. The
Govemment of Sierra Leone (Ministry of Development and Economic Planning), UN Theme Group on
HIV/AIDS and regional officials of UNAIDS worked closely in the development of this effort and see it as an
integral part of the common effort. Thus the project will address HWV/AIDS prevention, care, and support, as
well as impact mitigation at the national and sub-national levels. Emphasis will be on prevention among youth,
women of child-bearing age, orphans and other vulnerable children, and groups that are particularly vulnerable
to H1V/AIDS, including sex workers, the military and ex-combatants, intemally displaced people, and refugees.
The proposed project will finance the full spectrum of HIV/AIDS activities including prevention, care, support,
and impact mitigation over a four-year period. It will have four components: (1) capacity building, policy
coordination and refugee activities; (2) multi-sector responses to HIV/AIDS prevention and care; (3) health-
sector responses to HIV/AIDS, STI/TB and other opportunistic infection management, including prevention,
care, and support; and (4) civil society initiatives (including communities, NGOs, religious groups and the
private sector). These activities will take into account the existing conditions and level of capacity at each
administrative structure (national, regional, district, and chiefdoms).
3.3 Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project (HSRDP)
Page 7 of 60



The project's overall development objective is to help restore the most essential functions of the health delivery
system. The project will also help achieve the more specific objectives of:
(a) Increasing access to affordable essential health services by improving primary and first referral
health facilities in four districts of the country.
(b) Improving the performance of key technical programs responsible for coping with the country's
major public health problems.
(c) Strengthening health sector management capacity to improve efficiency and further decentralize
decision-making to the districts.
(d) Supporting development of the private health sector and involvement of the civil society in decision-
making.
The first specific objective is limited in scope to the four Districts, which met specific selection criteria (such as
importance to the demobilization, resettlement and peace processes; magnitude of the public health problems;
clear need to rehabilitate the delivery of services, etc.). Within these four districts, the project focuses on the
rehabilitation of priority health facilities, and on support for the delivery of affordable and good quality care by
all health facilities of these districts. Through its second specific objective, the project will contribute to
reducing the burden of the most important infectious diseases countrywide (i.e., by supporting Malaria, and TB
control activities and the Sanitation program). The third specific objective aims to improve efficiency and make
decisions in the health sector more responsive to the needs of the population by supporting district health teams
country-wide and five key services of the MOHS (i.e., Human Resources Development; Planning, Monitoring
and Evaluation; Financial Management; Procurement; and Donor and NGO coordination). The fourth specific
objective will improve the quality of services by enacting legislation promoting the private sector, providing
incentives to the health providers to establish practices in rural areas and smaller cities, contracting out clinical
and non-clinical services with the private sector, and by involving the civil society in decision making in the
health administration and in health facilities.
3.4 Project Description
Within the SHARP Project, this study aims to address the Healthcare waste management in Sierra Leone, under
the following specific tasks,
Task I:
*  Assess the policy, legal, Administrative, as well as the Regulatory Framework concerning health-care
waste management and treatment/destruction facilities in Sierra Leone;
*  Identify functioning healthcare facilities under Government authority in the country and provide basic
information for each facility, such as number of beds, bed occupancy rate, divided into categories:
national hospitals, regional hospitals, municipal hospital, military hospitals, private clinics and
laboratories, and secondary health-care facilities.
*  Assess the healthcare waste generation at (i) Connaught hospital (ii) one major regional hospital (iii)
one district hospital, and (iv) one private clinic. To the degree available, details should include the
minimum weight of total generated waste at each healthcare facility per week. Composition of the
waste should be determined through segregation at the waste end point. Provide an extrapolation of the
results to cover the entire country based on agreed assumptions.
*  Assess the level of scavenging, recycling taking place inside healthcare facilities; along transportation
routes, and at final disposal sites. Identify social issues in relation to scavenging taking place.
Task II:
*  Review existing training and public awareness programs on healthcare waste management in hospitals,
other healthcare establishments and municipalities and prepare training needs assessment. This would
be based on discussions with relevant authorities and personnel to incorporate their views and concerns.
Working in conjunction with the relevant Government institutions and municipal councils, prepare a
draft-training programme for health-care institutions and municipal councils.
* Taking into account the IEC/BCC HIV/AIDS strategy work being developed under Sierra Leone
HIV/AIDS Response Project and other IEC/BCC efforts, suggest themes and modalities for
Page 8 of 60



HIV/AIDS/STI waste awareness campaign programme to reach the general public, health-care workers,
dumpsite managers, military personnel, scavengers/pickers families and street children.
Task III:
* Review existing waste management technologies and discuss alternative technologies; storage,
transportation, treatment and or final disposal.
Task IV:
* Discuss appropriate waste disposal sites
3.4.1 Methodology
For the purpose of data collection, the following selected health-care facilities were investigated. (1) Connaught
hospital (main referral hospital), (2) Port Loko district hospital, (3) Moyamba district hospital, (4) Bo district
hospital, (5) Kenema district hospital, (6) George Brook Community Health Centre, (7) Macauley Street
Satellite Clinic, and (8) the Brookfield community hospital (Private).
To provide basic data for the study, the following activities were performed:
* Assessment of existing policy, legal, administrative, as well as the regulatory framework concerning
health-care waste management and treatment/destruction facilities.
* A survey on generation, collection and disposal of health-care wastes, and the Knowledge, Attitudes and
Practices (KAP) of relevant staff concerning hospital waste management from seven-selected health-
care facilities was executed. The selected health-care facilities were (1) Connaught hospital (main
referral hospital), (2) Bo district hospital, (3) Port Loko district hospital, (4) Moyamba district hospital,
(5) Kenema district hospital, (6) George Brook Community Health Centre, (7) Macauley Street Satellite
Clinic and (8) Brookfields community hospital (Private).
* Meetings with concerned authorities and hospital officials were held with the following programme.
(a) Discussion of the structure of the Ministry of Health and Sanitation with specific reference to
Hospital Waste Management.
(b) Current management of waste inside the health facilities with special emphasis on equipment,
regulations and training of personnel.
(c) Current management of hospital waste outside the hospital, focusing on storage places,
transportation and disposal.
* Meetings were organised with health authorities, municipal councils, community leaders, heads of
healthcare training institutions, military and police personnel: (a) to discuss develop a training
assessment programme and (b) to determine IEC/BCC messages and the most suitable modalities for
communicating such messages.
3.5 Health Care Waste Management (HCWM) policies practice and challenges
3.5.1 Policy, Legislations and Control
The Ministry of Health and Sanitation has the executive authority for waste management, inside as well as
outside the healthcare facilities, in Sierra Leone. The Environmental Health Division of the ministry currently
has the direct responsibility of waste management in the country.
Presently, a "Legal Unit" does not exist within the ministry to formulate, promulgate and implement new
legislation for the handling and disposal of health care wastes.
There is currently no policy on healthcare waste management in Sierra Leone. However, the ministry's
Environmental Health programme has developed a draft Environmental Health policy as an addendum to the
existing National Health Policy. Section 3 of the draft policy deals with sanitation of healthcare facilities in
general, and clinical waste management in particular. It states "clinical waste are special and should be
separated from other rubbish, protected from foraging animals (including humans) and vermin and properly
disposed of at a convenient distance from the health care establishment ".
Page 9 of 60



The draft policy list as goals:
1. Constant maintenance of special care and concern for clinical wastes,
2. Effective destruction of all clinical wastes.
The priorities set are as follows:
1. All discarded human and animal tissues should be effectively buried deep in the earth daily.
2. All health care institutions should identify a site for incineration of all clinical wastes.
3. Such sites should be at a distance so that fumes, smoke and other toxic gases do not pose health hazards to
the persons working at or using the services of the facility or those staying in the vicinity.
4. Clinical wastes, including human tissues, discarded dressings, used syringes, needles, blades etc., should be
protected from foraging animals and vermin.
5. Such special concern should be manifested in all areas of health care institution/office.
6. Once a day, or at other regular intervals not longer than once a week, the collected material should be
properly disposed of.
7. Expired drugs should be returned to the Directorate of Drugs and Medical supplies for efficient technical
destruction.
With regard to existing laws, the topic of safe healthcare waste management is not specifically dealt with in
either the Public Health Ordinance Act No. 23 of 1960 or the Environmental Protection Act No.2 of 2000, now
in force. However, the Public Health Ordinance specifically deals with the control of infectious patients and the
materials associated with them. Sections 44 and 45 of the ordinance make provision for temporary and
permanent isolation accommodation of infectious patients for the following reasons.
*  To control the movement of patients in order not to spread the infection through their coming into
contact with healthy persons.
*  To control any waste matter produced by the infectious patients.
Section 50 (1) specifically deals with premises, clothing, bedding, etc., that are infected by an infectious disease
patient. It reads:
"Subject to the provision of Section 57, a Medical Officer of Health, being aware of, or reasonably
suspecting, the presence of a notifiable disease in his area, may by notice in writing order the evacuation,
disinfection, fumigation or demolition of any infected premises or any premises reasonably suspected of being
infected; or the disinfection, fumigation or destruction of such articles, including bedding and clothing, as he
may suspect as infected.
Provided that no premises shall be demolished unless they are of temporary construction, or are so
dilapidated, or in such disrepair that efficient disinfection is impracticable".
The Environmental Protection Act, like the Public Health Ordinance does on specifically deal with healthcare
waste. However, Section 2 makes provision for the establishment of an Environmental Protection Board,
Section 34 deals with Environmental standards and states that the Minister may by statutory instrument make
regulation establishing national environmental standards for waste amongst others.
Also Section 35 which deals with Toxic and hazardous substances makes the following provisions:
(1)    The Minister may on the advice of the Board prescribe activities or substances, which shall be
considered hazardous.
Page 1O of 60



(2)    The Minister shall take all necessary and appropriate measures to monitor, control and regulate
the manufacture, sale, transportation, handling or disposal of toxic and hazardous substances,
including toxic and hazardous wastes.
(3)    The introduction or importation of toxic or hazardous wastes into Sierra Leone for storage or
disposal by any means whatsoever is prohibited.
(4)    The possession, introduction or importation into Sierra Leone of internationally banned
chemicals or substances is prohibited.
(5)    The discharge of any toxic and hazardous substance into the air or in, or under the land and
waters of Sierra Leone is prohibited.
(6)    Any person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (3), (4) or (5) commits an offence and
is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding two million leones or to a term of imprisonment
not exceeding two years or to both the fine and imprisonment.
The Environmental Protection Board, which is Multisectorial, has recently been established in the Ministry of
Lands and the Environment.
There are yet no other laws, bylaws or regulations dealing with healthcare waste management in Sierra
Leone. In the same manner, there are no proper control systems for hospital waste management.
A survey executed in eight selected healthcare facilities in Sierra Leone revealed that the Ministry of Health
and Sanitation does not exercise full control over non-governmental or private hospitals. Likewise, in the
hospitals themselves no internal regulations for the nursing and environmental health staff exists on how
hygienically and sanitarily to identity and handle hospital-specific wastes.
3.5.2 Hygiene Standard of the Healthcare facilities
There is no organised and effective waste handling and disposal system in the healthcare facilities visited.
However, with the exception of Port Loko hospital which practice open burning of its wastes, NGOs have
introduced some form of waste segregation and treatment in all the other facilities visited by providing sharp
boxes and plastic buckets for other infectious wastes, and low-scale incinerators. Unfortunately, these facilities
are not properly and effective utilised. Mixed wastes can be seen in the plastic buckets and storage drums or
open storage points outside the hospital.
All the facilities have malfunctioning water tanks, some out of order and not supplying water to the buildings,
others too small or rusting. The septic tanks require a clean out and rehabilitation.
In cases where toilets (WCs and pit latrines) do not function, patients and visitors have to defecate in the
hospital compounds.
Steps are now being taken to rectify this situation in the western area. A "Feasibility and Design Study" has
been completed and tender documents for the rehabilitation works is currently in active progress. The African
Development Bank is funding the rehabilitation of the three government hospitals (Connaught, P. C. M. H, and
Children's) plus five Community Health Centres (Cline town, Ross Road, Jenner Wright, Kissy, and Regent).
The new direction of the government healthcare delivery system focuses on the development of preventive
services while simultaneously strengthening the existing health delivery system. Sanitary healthcare waste
management is a very important preventive service.
3.5.3 Communicable Diseases in Sierra Leone
The last statistical National Medical report was published in 1983. There is hardly any centralised data
collection, which can be used for decision-making purposes. Consequently, no statistical data of communicable
diseases exist at present.
Page 11 of 60



According to the Ministry of Health and Sanitation, the major causes of morbidity and mortality in Sierra Leone
are infectious/communicable diseases, the most common of which are the following:
*  Malaria
*  Hepatitis
*  Respiratory infectious
*  Meningitis
*  Diarrhoea, Cholera
*  Typhus and Para typhus
*  Tuberculosis
*  Worm Infection
*  Infectious skin diseases
*  Poliomyelitis
*  HIV/AIDS
*  Measles
Most of these diseases can be transmitted by unhygienic waste handling, not only in the healthcare facilities
amongst the patients and staff, but also in the surrounding community, if the waste is exposed openly to visitors,
scavengers of waste and animals. To prevent and control these infectious diseases, effective and safe healthcare
waste management is essential.
3.5.4 Existing Waste Management Practices
Inside the Healthcare facilities
The current hygiene standard of waste handling inside the visited HCFs is, compared with the international
standard, very low and a cause of great concern. The wastes from the operating theatres, patient wards and
laboratories are not collected in one-way receptacles such as bags or containers, but directly in waste or used
cardboard boxes without any plastic bags placed within the receptacle to prevent its contamination as they are
reused.
Due to the lack of regulations and control, the hazardous infectious wastes are disposed of together with the
normal waste. There is no segregation of the waste in the patient wards, and syringes and needles are not
separated either.
The interviewed nurses and cleaning staff in the visited hospitals showed very little knowledge of the risks
which improper handling of hospital wastes constitutes to them and to the patients, and are not instructed and
trained in this area.
After being collected in unsuitable receptacles, the infectious and hazardous waste is handled and
transported in the hospital by untrained porters who bring them to general on-site treatment and disposal
points or transfer area in the case of Connaught hospital. Therefore, the waste transporting personnel
are also highly exposed to health risks.
The on-site storage and disposal areas are located inappropriately, with access for unauthorized personnel.
Patients, visitors and animals have the possibility of coming in contact with dangerous items, as there is no
effective and conscientious separation of infectious sharp or pointed articles
In all of the HCFs visited, the lack of rules and standard procedures for regulating management of the
waste generated could be observed. The interviewed hospital staff displayed only limited knowledge of
the topic in hand, and the lack of standards, awareness, and proper allocation of resources subject both
patients and HCF staff to otherwise avoidable risks. These risks take the form of:
*  Use of inappropriate receptacles without lids and without bags.
*  General lack of hygiene; failure to disinfect receptacles.
Page 12 of 60



*  Loose collection of disposable syringes with attached needles and other contaminated sharp objects.
*  Complete lack of packaging materials for waste transportation.
* Internal transport of waste under unhygienic and unsanitary conditions.
*  Improper disposal of hazardous radioactive waste.
3.5.5 Outside the Healthcare facilities
Off all the eight HCFs visited, only Connaught hospital and other government healthcare institutions in
Freetown store their wastes in open public skips (dustbins) which are collected by EHD skip-trucks for off-site
final disposal. This service is currently contracted in Freetown, Bo, and Kenema, supervised by the
Environmental Health Division of the Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS).
The staff employed to drive the vehicles as well as to manage the open dumpsites have neither the training nor
adequate equipment to deal with waste of a hazardous natures, such as infectious HCF waste.
Wastes generated in the healthcare facilities are mostly stored in open drums or areas of MOHS container
(Connaught) located within the compound. The storage places are not covered by a shelter or secured by a fence
in any of the visited facilities.
The skip (Connaught) is the same as used for carting household waste with a volume of 5m3 slightly conical
shaped and open. Due to the active prevalence of scavengers and animals, the contents were seen strewn all
over the place. This is true of all the Healthcare facilities visited.
The container (Connaught hospital) is transported to the landfill site by a skip-truck without taking the
precaution of covering the top. The potential danger of this situation cannot be over-emphasized.
At the open dumpsites, the content of these containers is dumped on the top together with the other municipal
garbage. There is no specific location at the dumpsites for infectious waste, and there is no special treatment
before or on arrival. The dumpsites are not restricted areas; scavenger activity is in evidence.
Apart from Connaught, all the other Healthcare facilities (7) visited use on-site facilities. They store their wastes
in drums without tight-fitting covers; located outside the wards or dump their wastes either on the ground or
behind the wards, or bum them either in pits or low-scale incinerators. It is not uncommon to find animals,
scavenging in that unsanitary garbage. The drums are emptied either directly into the incinerators or on the
ground nearby when the incinerators are either filled or non-functional.
Apart from Connaught hospital and George Brook Community Health Centre, all other HCFs visited have lined
pits for the disposal of incinerator ashes. Unfortunately, save for Moyamba hospital, all the other pits are filled
with all sorts of HCWs and are over spilling.
During the course of the survey, most of the health institutions reported that hospital wastes such as human body
parts, placentas and deceased foetuses are routinely buried. This method of disposal is either done by the
hospitals themselves on hospital premises or by relatives in certified burial sites such as cemeteries and is
traditionally interned. However, noteworthy is the statement of a landfill supervisor that this type of waste also
finds its way to the MOHS garbage containers.
The incinerators at all the visited HCFs, except at Port Loko District hospital which does not have one, show
signs of deteriorations.
In summary, infectious and hazardous waste as well as human body parts are collected, transported and disposed
off (on-site) together with common waste, exposing it to unauthorized persons and to animals at the storage,
treatment (incineration) and disposal sites. Only in Freetown is medical wastes transported off-site to open
dumpsites. All district facilities visited practice on-site waste management, which requires a lot of improvement
in segregation, storage, transportation, treatment and or final disposal.
Page 13 of 60



3.5.6 Water Supply and Sanitation
Healthcare waste is total waste stream from Healthcare-Waste (HCW) generators, major and scattered sources.
It may be solid (hazardous or non-hazardous) or liquid
Solid Waste - Typically composed of,
* 75-90% is general waste similar to domestic waste and may follow the normal municipal waste stream.
* 10-25% is hazardous (infectious, toxic, etc) and must be segregated and treated with care to prevent
associated risk. This category of waste can be subjected to incineration under supervision by trained
staff.
Presently these categorises are mixed together and disposed of indiscriminately. SHARP will initially provide
incinerators for the four-SHARP District and has funded the development of this Comprehensive National
Medical Waste Management Plan for Sierra Leone.
Sanitation - Liquid waste mainly composed of,
1. Used water (Sullage) which are presently led into open drains that ends in either soak-away pits or
nearby grass fields as the case may be.
2. Sewage (water fouled with excreta) from water closets, which are led into septic tanks followed by
soak-away pits.
Latrines - toilet facilities in the hospitals are generally inadequate and there are signs of unsightliness. An
endemic problem in the healthcare facilities visited seems to be the with the wastewater systems. Clogged
sewage pipes and open drains cause permanent unsanitary conditions. Sewage and sullage over-flowing,
offensive odour, and mosquito breeding are evident. Cause for the clogging is the improper disposal of wastes,
which are sometimes flushed down the water closets.
We presently have three types of latrines for excreta disposal in our healthcare facilities. These are:
1. Traditional Pit Latrines
2. Ventilated Improved Pit (VIP) Latrine
3. Septic Tank System (water closet - septic tank - soak-away pit)
Freetown (capital city) and the District Hospitals have a combination of 3 plus I or 2 above. The Peripheral
Health Units have either I or 2 or both as the case may be.
Toilet facilities are inadequate and there are signs on unsightliness. An endemic problem in the healthcare
facilities visited seems to be the wastewater systems. Clogged sewage pipes cause permanently unsanitary
conditions, sewage over-flowing from septic tanks, offensive odour, and mosquito breeding. Cause for the
clogged sewage pipes is, in most cases, improper disposal of wastes, which for the lack of receptacle are
sometimes ignorantly flushed down the water closets
The septic tanks are desludged by means of Sucker Trucks and the sludge is eventually either emptied in Sludge
Polders were available or grass fields away from the community, for drying. Generally, sewage is led into a
septic tank, from where the effluent ends into clogged soak-away pits. However, emptying and cleaning of
these septic tanks are not performed regularly, reducing the effect of their treatment function to practically zero.
They're no central sewage systems throughout the country.
Water Supply - Unlike hospitals in Freetown, which are connected to public water mains, district hospitals
have, hand-dug wells fitted with electric lift-pumps to overhead storage tanks. The water yield of the wells does
not meet the daily water needs of the healthcare facilities. There are problems with storage tank leaks due to
rust.
3.5.7 Awareness and Training on medical waste
Page 14 of 60



The staffs at the hospitals are little conscious about the risk associated with medical waste and/or nosocomial
infections; measures to prevent these are rarely enforced. In the wards or outside the facility, they do not
segregate wastes. Waste handlers are not provided with protective clothing (gloves, mask, boots, apron and
overall).
Investigations reveal that there is no specifically structured training and awareness on medical waste
management in the country. The following institutions exist for the local training of Healthcare personnel in
Sierra Leone:
*  College of Medicine and Allied Health Sciences; trains Medical Doctors
*  Paramedical School; trains Community Health Officers
*  National School of Hygiene; trains Public Health Inspectors
*  School of Midwifery; trains Nurse Midwives
*  Dispensing Technician School; trains Pharmacy Technicians
*  MCH Programme; trains Maternal and Child Health Aides and Traditional Birth Attendants
Meetings with the respective heads of these institution reveals that Healthcare waste management is not
elaborated in any of their curriculum/syllabuses.
Instruction and Training of Personnel
The first and most important step towards sanitary waste management inside the hospitals is to settle the matter
of responsibilities.
Each healthcare facility should have a Public Health Inspector to be responsible for the hygiene of the entire
hospital activities, which naturally includes the waste management inside the HCF area. This responsible
person must be endowed with the necessary authority to carry out this task. He has to supervise and must have
the right and duty to report directly to the Medical Superintendent.
It has been previously stated that untrained personnel directly involved in handling hospital solid wastes are
exposed to a high risk of infection, which is extended to patients and other health personnel. Training, together
with proper equipment for collection and transportation, is the only way to improve the present unsanitary
conditions.
Not only doctors and nurses, but also all the hospital staff has to be made aware of the hazards of mishandling
hospital wastes. They must be able to recognised the types of waste and know how to handle each type
correctly.
The self-learning process is recommended for medical staff training. This is elaborated in annex 6.
IEC/BCCMessages
The following messages were determined at meetings with Health Educationists, National AIDS Control
Programme Staff and other related partners:
1. Make sure that clean needles are used for injections.
2. Unclean needles and syringes transmit deadly diseases like AIDS.
3. Put sharps into sharp boxes for disposal.
4. Dispose of used condom in a safe manner to prevent access to children.
5. Exposure to hospital waste can make you sick.
6. Always put on gloves, overalls, and boots ad mask when handling medical wastes.
7. Mark your segregated wastes as infectious and non-infectious for easy identification.
8. Put infectious wastes in yellow plastic bags and normal wastes in black plastic bags.
9. Picking in hospital wastes exposes you to deadly diseases.
10. Never re-open sealed infectious waste bags.
11. HIV can be transmitted when the skin is cut or pierced using an unsterilised needle, razor blade, knife or
any other tool.
12. Store all infectious waste in sealable containers.
Page 15 of 60



The following strategies could be employed to implement the above.
1. Advocacy at national level
2. Community meetings
3. Radio and television discussions
4. Workshops and seminars
5. Newspapers and leaflets
The following methods can be considered for public education on risks, waste segregation, or waste disposal
practices;
*  Poster exhibitions on healthcare waste issues, including the risks involved in scavenging discarded
syringes and hypodermic needles.
*  Explanation by staff of healthcare establishment to incoming patients and visitors on waste management
policy. This may be difficult to achieve, in which case the distribution of leaflets, TV and radio
discussion should be considered.
*  Information poster exhibitions in hospitals, at strategic points such as waste bin locations, giving
instructions on waste segregation. Posters should be explicit using diagrams and illustrations to convey
the message to as broad an audience as possible, including illiterate people.
Training Plan of action
* Assess and establish training needs.
* Adopt modules for nosocomial infections and medical waste management.
* Train District trainers and develop District and Chiefdom level training plans.
* Secure training materials.
* Plan and organise District and Chiefdom level training.
3.5.8 Healthcare facilities
According to MOHS' Directorate of Planning and Information, there are currently 32 and 417 functioning
Hospitals and Peripheral Health Units (PHU) in the country; as detailed in table below.
The Peripheral Health Units according to the MCH/EPI Programme Manager, Dr. A. L. Seisay, and his
programme has an operational policy to ensure that all PHUs are equipped with incinerators and staff train to
manage medical waste. All sharps will put in sharp-boxes for final disposal.
Page 16 of 60



Table Showing the Number and Distribution of Functioning Hospitals and Peripheral Health Unit as of 6-Jan-02
Hospitals                                                 PHUs
Region/Districts                        Terhary       Secondary       Total      Total Beds       Total
Sierra Leone                            9             23              32         2622             417
Eastern Province                        1             2               3          425              67
Kailahun                                0             0               0          0                5
Kenema                                  1             2               3          365              52
Kono                                    0             0               0          60               20
Northern Province                       0             5               5          446              121
Bombali                                 0             1               1          60               6
Kambia                                  0             0               0          0                20
Koinadugu                               0             1              1          100              15
Port Loko                               0             3               3          286              40
Tonkolili                               0             0               0          0                40
Southern Province                       1             4               5          501              149
Bo                                      I             0               1          334              50
Bonthe                                  0             2               2          64               18
Moyamba                                 0             I               I          60               51
Pujehun                                 0             1               I -        43               30
Western Area                            7             12              19         1207             80
Infectious waste classification and generation
A classification of hospital wastes has been worked out for the special needs of Sierra Leone according to the
kind of treatment and disposal they require.
Classification
Type A: Normal Waste similar to domestic waste
Type B: Patient's waste requiring special management within the hospital
Type C: Infectious Waste requiring special management inside and outside the hospital
Type D: Human Parts requiring special treatment for ethical reasons
Type E: Other Hazardous Waste similar to industrial wastes
Type F: Recyclable material
Type G: Sludge from the hospital wastewater treatment plant.
Generation
For the purpose of estimating the amount of infectious waste (Types C and D) that would requires special care for the country, the adopted unit values
from Ghana will be considered for this project under the current situation.
*    Waste Types A and B                                            1.20 kg/bed/day
*    Waste Type C                                                            0.15 kg/bed/day
*    Waste type D                                                            0.05 kg/bed/day
*    Specific weight of waste Type A, B and C      200 kg/m3
Taking into account the above-listed unit values, the total amount of wastes Types C and D in the respective districts considered are estimated to come to:
Waste Type C
1. Port Loko District
268 beds x 0.15 kg/bed/ day x 7 days                   300 kg/week
2. Koinadugu District
100 beds x 0.15 kg/bed/ day x 7 days                  105 kg/week
3. Bombali District
60 beds x 0.15 kg/bed/ day x 7 days                   63 kg/week
4. Kenema District
365 beds x 0.15 kg/bed/ day x 7 days                            383 kg/week
5. Kono District
60 beds x 0.15 kg/bed/ day x 7 days                     63 kg/week
6. Bo District
334 beds x 0.15kg/bed/day x 7 days                     351 kg/week
7. Bonthe District
64 beds x 0.15 kg/bed/ day x 7 days                    67 kg/week
8. Pujehun District
43 beds x 0.15 kg/bed/ day x 7 days                     45 kg/week
9. Moyamba District
60 beds x 0.15 kg/bed/ day x 7 days                    63 kg/week
10. Western Area (Freetown)
1207beds x 0.15 kg/bed/ day x 7 days                            1267 kg/week
Page 17 of 60



Waste Type D
1. Port Loko District
268 beds x 0.05 kg/bed/ day x 7 days               100 kg/week
2. Koinadugu District
100 beds x 0.05 kg/bed/ day x 7 days                35 kg/week
3. Bombali District
60 beds x 0.05 kg/bed/ day x 7 days               21 kg/week
4. Kenema District
365 beds x 0.05 kg/bed/ day x 7 days                       128 kg/week
5. Kono District
60 beds x 0.05 kg/bed/ day x 7 days                 21 kg/week
6. Bo District
334 beds x 0.05 kg/bed/ day x 7 days               117 kg/week
7. Bonthe District
64 beds x 0.05 kg/bed/ day x 7 days                22 kg/week
8. Pujehun District
43 beds x 0.05 kg/bed/ day x 7 days                15 kg/week
9. Moyamba District
60 beds x 0.05 kg/bed/ day x 7 days                21 kg/week
10. Western Area (Freetown)
1207 beds x 0.05 kg/bed/ day x 7 days                      422 kg/week
These estmates will assist in determining capacities of incinerator requiredfor the respective Districts.
Wastes Type E (hazardous wastes) has not been separately collected up to now. Only after implementing a new
classification and separation of all wastes generated in the hospitals can practicable give information on this
waste fraction be obtained.
Waste receptacles and collection
According to the investigations made at the hospitals, one of the main problems of hygienic waste handling is
the lack of appropriate receptacles. In nearly all cases, infectious waste together with syringes and needles, etc.
are openly collected and transported in open buckets, intended for the cleaning service but not for infectious
hospital waste handling.
Therefore, thorough attention has to be given to providing the hospitals with adequate equipment for the
collection of the waste.
*   Waste type A and B can be handled as is done now, drums and plastic buckets with tight-fitting covers
respectively.
*   The collection and transport of Waste Types C and D must be improved substantially.
In areas where waste of Type C is generated, metallic circular bag-holders with lid shall be employed. In these
bag holders, polythene bags should be provided. For better identification the bags should be coloured, and sharp
and pointed objects such as syringes blades or glass must be collected in puncture-resistant containers (sharp
boxes) before being disposed of in the bags.
The filled bags should be closed off using plastic strips, which, once fastened in place, should not be reopened.
Then, they are removed from the bag holder and placed at the transfer area for their removal by the collection
service direct to the disposal sites. Neither re-use of the disposable receptacles nor compression of the waste is
permissible.
The most appropriate receptacles for waste Type D (human body parts) are conical shaped plastic buckets with a
hermetically sealing plastic lid and a handle for easy handling. If, for economic reasons, it is not possible to
acquire this type of receptacle, plastic bags can be used as for the waste Type C. They must have a different
colour so that the collection service can distinguish them.
A general upgrading of the hospital's intemal collection equipment (bins, carts, storage areas and protection
equipment, etc.) is recommended.
Page 18 of 60



Transport and Storage in the Hospital
The waste has to be removed each day from the transfer areas and taken to a storage place. Rubber-wheeled
carts with a bin made of plastic or non-rusting metal should be used for this should have a smooth surface for
easy cleaning and disinfecting. Moreover, the dimensions must be appropriate for easy manoeuvrability along
the route to be followed inside the hospital.
The storage of the different types of waste has to be done in the corresponding places according to the following
requirements.
* Solid waste types A and B should be deposited in the containers used for domestic refuse.
* Waste Type C should be deposited in a special storage room to which only authorized personnel have
access.
* Waste Type D should be immediately transported to a cemetery and buried as existing cultural practices
demands.
* Waste Type E must be stored according to the regulations for industrial hazardous waste.
* Radioactive wastes must be stored in a radiation-safe place until their radioactivity has decreased to the
point where they are no longer considered radioactive, and then disposed of according to the instructions
given by authorized officials.
In none of the visited hospitals was there an appropriate room for the storage of the waste Type C. Therefore, in
most of the hospitals remodelling will be necessary.
Treatment of Waste
The management of the hospital wastes outside the hospital depends on the kind of treatment they have to
undergo:
* Waste Types A and B, normal waste and patient's waste can be transported and disposed of together with
other urban waste, once they have been removed from the hospital premises.
* Wastes Types C and D, infectious waste and human body parts, require special transport and treatment,
which will be described further.
* Waste Type E, other hazardous waste, must be disposed of according to the regulations for industrial
hazardous waste.
Treatment of hospital waste means any method, technique or process designed to change the biological character
or composition of any regulated medical waste so as to reduce or eliminate its potential for causing disease.
Regarding the adequate sanitary disposal of healthcare waste as a treatment method, and by considering the
specific needs and possibilities for Sierra Leone, only two technical alternatives can be taken into consideration
for waste Type C:
1.    Incineration (modem for regional referral hospitals and improvised for District hospitals and PHUs)
2.     Controlled disposal in sanitary landfills
Controlled disposals in sanitary landfills have the following reported advantages
* It is a recognised and proven method of deposal of this waste category
* The technology is applicable to all infectious wastes and does not require pre-processing of the waste.
* The control is easy and evident
* It is the most economic method.
However, current practices (open dumping) at the existing dumpsites (Freetown, Bo, and Kenema) militate
against this option for the time being. Consequently, and taking into consideration the dangers associated with
healthcare waste and in particular HIV, HBV, and HCV transmissions, incineration followed by ash burial in
lined pits within the compound should be improved and promoted. Nevertheless, since typically almost 80% of
the total wastes generated by healthcare institutions are generally comparable to domestic wastes, sanitary
landfill is inevitable. Consequently, the existing (4) open dumpsites should be upgraded to sanitary landfills and
new sanitary landfills developed in every district currently without one. This will then allow for the landfilling
Page 19 of 60



of those categories of waste that should not be incinerated. Recommended criteria for the selection, development
and operation of sanitary landfill sites are attached as annex 6.
As outlined earlier, infectious hospital waste Type C can be buried at sanitary landfills, provided the following
precautions are taken:
* The hospital waste must be transported to an already filled-up area of the sanitary landfill. This landfill, or at
least the selected area, should be fenced in so that it will have restricted access.
* The hospital waste has to be dumped directly from the truck into the pit without any handling by labourers.
* The same excavation material from the pit must cover it immediately, preferably.
* The areas where infectious wastes have been buried must be marked and documented to avoid re-opening
by further disposal of hospital wastes.
Instruction and training of solid waste personnel, as described in this report, must also be extended to the
personnel working on the sanitary landfill.
3.5.9 Legal Requirements
Legislation
There is a lack of legislative framework, by-laws and guidelines for the management of hospital wastes in Sierra
Leone. The objective should be to set up a legal structure that will be maintained and updated by a Ministry of
Health and Sanitation legislation unit. By-laws or regulations on the following themes should be laid down.
* Precise definition of all terms to describe the management of hospital waste
* Classification of hospital wastes
* Internal management of solid waste in health care institutions
* External management of solid waste from health care institutions
* Guidelines for the section of hospital solid waste-handling equipment and materials
* Determination of responsibilities
* Fines and penalties for non-compliance.
The general guidelines for the management of healthcare wastes is attached as annex 7
Control Institutions
Legislation alone is a useless instrument without an official organ to monitor compliance and the power to
enforce it by punishing non-compliance
Therefore, an effective control system of the hospital waste management must be established. As described
before, it can be organised on two levels.
1. Responsible self-control by a qualified member of their own staff for the executing institutions, the
hospitals for sanitary hospital-internal handling, and the Environmental Health Division for the
management outside the hospital. This should cover collection transportation, treatment and disposal.
2. Official control by health inspectors of the ministry who should exercise control over governmental,
private and mission operated health care institutions and has the legal power to caution and/or punish.
Page 20 of 60



3.6 Existing institutional arrangements
3.6.1 Structure of Government Health Authority
STRUCTURE OF CONTROL - RESPONSIBLITIES OF WASTE MANAGEMENT
Minister of Health and
Sanitation
Director- General of Medical
Services
Director of Clinical Services
inside the Hospital             Outside the-Hospital
NrigStaff              Public Health Inspectors    Pbi elhIsetr
Nursing Aides and Porters     airvLabourers              Sanitary Labourers
Minister of Health and Sanitation: She is the head of the ministry and responsible for the formulation of
policies and legislation.
Director-General of Medical Services: He is the professional head of the ministry and adviser to the minister
on all professional matters.
Director of Clinical Services: He is one of the two Deputies and assists the Director-General Medical Services
with his functions, with particular reference to clinical services.
Senior Medical Superintendent: He is the overall head of the hospital administration and reports to the
Director-General Medical Services. He is therefore also head of the hospital waste management. He supervises
the day-to-day running of the hospital, and the doctors as well as the senior matron reports to him. In turn, the
matrons, nurses and ward st aff report to the doctors and the senior matron.
Environmental Manager: He is the head of all public health inspectors based in the hospitaL He assigns the
health inspector to exercise hospital waste handling. All public health inspectors are in theory, controlled by
the Chief Health Superintendent.   In practice, they are supervised by the respective senior medical
superintendents in hospitals were public health inspectors are posted.
Page 21 ofp  6



Senior Sanitary Engineer: He heads the Waste Management Unit within the MOHS. He and his staff are
currently responsible for the sanitary transport and disposal of all (municipal and hospital) wastes disposal in
the country.
3.6.2  Healthcare Institutions
The Healthcare institutions in Sierra Leone can be divided into five groups on the basis of the mode of
management and ownership.
1. Government
Government healthcare facilities (hospitals, health-centres, and clinics) are the most extensive of these
groups. These comprise a network of institutions spread throughout the country. The functionaries that
run and administer these institutions are directly employed and remunerated by the Government of
Sierra Leone through the Ministry of Health and Sanitation. The effects of National Health Policy and
activities are most significantly felt in these institutions.
Government health institutions are sub-divided into four groups.
1. Referral Hospitals (secondary at district levels and tertiary at regional levels).
2. Community Health Centres
3. Maternal Child Health Posts
4. Community Health Posts
Items 2, 3, and 4 above constitute the Peripheral Health Units.
2. Industry
Industrial Hospitals and Clinics are healthcare facilities usually established and administered by specific
industrial enterprises. Even though they are subject to overall National Health Policy guidelines and
regulations, they are to all intents and purposes autonomous. The staff are employed and remunerated
by the respective industries. Unlike government hospitals that cater to the general public, industrial
health care institutions usually only service employees of the respective industries and dependent
relatives.
3. Missions
These were established and run by religious groups. Their staff are employed and remunerated by these
Missionaries. In general, they are subject to national health policy conditions and regulations. Their
clientele include members of the general public.
4. Defence (Military and Police) and Education
The ministries of defence and education run these as the case may be. The clientele of these hospitals in
principle comprise members of the Sierra Leone Military, Police, Educational Institutions and their
dependant relatives. Government pays the bulk of the staff in these hospitals.
5. Private Organizations
Next to government-run organizations, private healthcare facilities comprise the bulk of support in
Sierra Leone. Due to their higher quality of services rendered or provided, they cater to the most
privileged members of the Sierra Leone community. Individual doctors or associates thereof mainly
own these health institutions. The administration is autonomous, and they pay their own staff. They are
operated very often without subventions from external sources, and they charge cost-covering fees for
their services.
Page 22 of 60



4. The HCWM Plan
4.1 Plan description
4.1.1 Goal and objectives
The overall goal is to establish a comprehensive system of waste management in Sierra Leone in order to
improve public health and reduce environmental impacts from handling of healthcare waste (municipal and
healthcare) by its proper disposal.
Objectives:
I To improve the management of wastes in all healthcare institutions
2 To support private initiative (Private sector and NGOs) in safe healthcare waste management
3 To raise awareness of managers, health staff (public, private and NGO) and the general public about the
importance of safe management of healthcare waste.
4 To develop the institutional capacity of EHD in the safe management of healthcare wastes
Problems/issues                                 Objective to be achieved
1. Lack of policy, legal framework, guidelines, and  To improve the management of wastes in all healthcare
effective control.                           institutions
2. Deficiency and lack of appropriate technology,
equipment and materials
3. Lack of Advocacy, focused health education and
staff training, concerning hospital waste
management
1. Private not motivate                         To support private initiative (Private sector and NGOs) in
2. Lack of compliance                           safe healthcare waste management
l. Unhygienic handling of wastes within the     To raise awareness of managers, health staff (public,
hospitals, posing a threat to personnel, patients,  private and NGO) and the general public about the
and visitors                                  importance of safe management of healthcare waste.
2. Lack of training
1. Improper handling of wastes outside the institutions,  To develop the institutional capacity of EHD in the safe
exposing these wastes to scavengers, and causing a  management of healthcare wastes
serious threat not only to their own health but also to
that of the public and the environment.
4.1.2 Target groups and benefits
Target groups                                  Benefits
1. Health staff                                *   Existing Health staff trained on medical waste
2. Private healthcare institutions             *   Safe management of healthcare waste
3. Healthcare training institutions            *   Safe environment (land, water, and air)
4. Waste Handlers                              *   Prevention and control of disease transmission
5. Landfill staffs                             *   Healthy Population
6. General Public                              *   Economic Growth
7. Scavengers                                  *   Improved life expectancy
Amongst the priority health problems of Sierra Leone are malaria and water/sanitation related diseases. These
diseases can be transmitted by unhygienic waste handling, not only in the healthcare facilities amongst the
patients and staff, but also in the surrounding community, if the waste is exposed openly to visitors, scavengers
of waste and animals. To prevent and control these infectious diseases, effective and safe healthcare waste
management is essential. Regarding the lack of appropriate waste management policies and legislation, the
EHD of MOHS should develop these instruments through a collaborative workshop involving all stakeholders
including the Law officers department. The ensuing ordinance should be enacted and enforced by the public
health inspectors through sanitary courts established by law.
Page 23 of 60



4.1.3 Key interventions (activities) per objectives and performance indicators
Objectives                          Activities/Actions to be undertaken to  Key performance indicators
achieve the objective
1. To improve the management of     1.1 Equip all healthcare facilities with  Process/outputs
wastes in all healthcare institutions   appropriate equipments and material  By the end of the project:
for collection of healthcare waste.  -All healthcare wastes are collected and
1.2 Equip all healthcare facilities with  Disposed in a safe and environment-
appropriate facilities (trolleys, waste  Friendly manner
bags, sharp boxes and bins and skips)  - All personnel involved in medical
for medical waste management.        Waste management must possess
1.3 Provide adequate and wholesome       Appropriate safety equipment in all
water supplies in all facilities     Public and private healthcare
1.4 Provide  wheelbarrows   for   all    Facilities.
healthcare facilities for transportation  - A national policy for healthcare waste
to medical wastes to incinerators    Management is developed
1.5 Construct adapted incinerators for  - The public health ordinance is
District hospitals and PHUs          Reviewed, enacted and enforced.
1.6 Equip personnel involved in medical  Outcome:
waste management with adequate and  - All healthcare facilities (public,
sufficient protective clothing (boots,  Private and NGO) possess equipment
gloves, nose masks, overalls, etc)  for
Waste storage.
- All healthcare facilities (public,
Private and NGO) has dust bin for
Storage of normal waste within their
Compound
- All healthcare facilities has equipments
For safe internal transportation of their
Waste
- All Referral and regional hospitals
Has modem incinerators
- All District hospitals and PHUs has
Improvised incinerators.
2. To support private initiative (Private  2.1 Private and NGO healthcare  Process/outputs
sector and NGOs) in safe healthcare    Facilities manage their waste in a safe  - The private sector and NGOs are
waste management.                      And environment-friendly manner.     Motivated and pay more interest in
Medical waste management
2.2 Private and NGO healthcare        Outcome:
Facilities provide protective clothing  - All private and NGOs healthcare
For their waste handlers            Facilities manage their waste in a safe
And environment-friendly manner.
2.3 Private and NGO healthcare facilities  - All private and NGOs healthcare
Train their staffs and sensitise patients  Facilities provide protective clothing for
And visitors on risks               Their medical waste handler.
3. To raise awareness of managers,  3.1 To train health staffs (private, public  Process/outputs
health staff (public, private and NGO)  And NGO), Trainer Trainers,       - Personnel involved in are conscious of
and the general public about the       Paramedics, and sanitary worker in  The risk related to medical waste,
importance of safe management of       Healthcare facilities.              Appropriate behaviour and practices in
healthcare waste.                                                          Their handling and are capable to
3.2 To sensitise patients and the general  Formulate internal strategies for safe
public                             Medical waste management.
- Training modules on medical waste
Outcome:
- All medical and paramedical staff
Trained in medical waste management
- All aides, cleaners and maintenance
Staffs are sensitised about medical
Waste management
- At least 90% of the population are
Sensitised about risk related to medical
Waste management.
Page 24 of 60



4. To develop the institutional capacity  4.1 Design and or adapt an improvised  Process/outputs
of EHD in the safe management of        incinerator                       - Tools and appropriate infrastructures
healthcare wastes                   4.2 Design and or adapt tools for the pre-  Are elaborated, tested, evaluated and
collection of medical wastes in    Installed in healthcare facilities.
healthcare facilities             - Programme activities are prepared,
4.3 Elaborate internal guidelines for   Formulated, monitored and evaluated
medical waste management          - Sanitary courts established nationwide
4.4 Develop a healthcare waste        - Staff trained overseas
management policy                 - Public Health Laboratory Strengthened
4.5 Review and update Public Health   Outcome:
Ordinance                         - 100% of healthcare facilities manage
4.6 Enact and enforce the Public Health  Their waste in a safe and environment-
Ordinance                           Friendly manner.
4.7 Rehabilitate existing dumpsites to  - Effluent Standards Established
sanitary landfills                - 100% Compliance
4.8 Construct new sanitary landfills  - All project activities monitored
4.9 Provide technical and training    - 100% Written reports
assistance
4.10 Overseas Training
4.11 Strengthen the Pubic Health
Laboratory at Connaught Hospital
4.1.4 Risks and mitigating actions
High/
Risks                                      Substantial/        Mitigating Actions
Moderate/
1. Contamination of Drinking               Moderate            Appropriate design, sites and operation of
sanitary landfills, leachate treatment and
control, water quality testing.
2. Release of Pollutants into the air      High                High      temperature      (1000-12000C)
incineration, installation of flue gas
cleaning devices, air quality testing and
materials containing chlorine or heavy
metals will not be incinerated
3. Occupational hazards                    Substantial         Provision and ensuring routine use of
protective clothing, staff training and first
aid
4. Diseases transmission                   Moderate            Limited access to disposal sites, fencing
of disposal sites, separate cells for
medical wastes, public        sensitisation
(radio, TV, posters, leaflets, newspapers,
etc)
Page 25 of 60



4.1.5 Implementation strategy/methodology
Waste receptacles and collection
According to the investigations made at the hospitals, one of the main problems of hygienic waste handling is
the lack of appropriate receptacles. In nearly all cases, infectious waste together with syringes and needles, etc.
are openly collected and transported in open buckets, intended for the cleaning service but not for infectious
hospital waste handling. Therefore, thorough attention has to be given to providing the hospitals with adequate
equipment for the collection of the waste.
In Annex 7 of this plan, the general requirements for receptacles are described. According to this, the following
system will be recommended for the hospitals in Sierra Leone.
* Waste type A and B can be handled as is done now, drums and plastic buckets with tight-fitting covers
respectively.
* The collection and transport of Waste Types C and D must be improved substantially.
In areas where waste of Type C is generated, metallic circular bag-holder with lid shall be employed. In these
bag holders, polythene bags will be provided. For better identification the bags will be coloured, and sharp and
pointed objects such as syringes blades or glass must be collected in puncture-resistant containers (sharp boxes)
before being disposed of in the bags.
The filled bags are closed off using plastic strips, which, once fastened in place, should not be reopened. Then,
they are removed from the bag holder and placed at the transfer area for their removal by the collection service
direct to the on-site disposal site. Neither re-use of the disposable receptacles nor compression of the waste is
permissible.
The most appropriate receptacles for waste Type D (human body parts) are conical shaped plastic buckets with a
hermetically sealing plastic lid and a handle for easy handling. If, for economic reasons, it is not possible to
acquire this type of receptacle, plastic bags can be used as for the waste Type C. They must have a different
colour so that the collection service can distinguish them.
A general upgrading of the hospital's internal collection equipment (bins, carts, storage areas and protection
equipment, etc.) is recommended.
Transport and Storage in the Hospital
The waste has to be removed each day from the transfer areas and taken to a storage place. Rubber-wheeled
carts with a bin made of plastic or non-rusting metal should be used for this should have a smooth surface for
easy cleaning and disinfecting. Moreover, the dimensions must be appropriate for easy manoeuvrability along
the route to be followed inside the hospital.
The storage of the different types of waste has to be done in the corresponding places according to the following
requirements.
* Solid waste types A and B should be deposited in the containers used for domestic refuse.
* Waste Type C should be deposited in a special storage room to which only authorized personnel have
access.
* Waste Type D should be immediately transported to a cemetery and buried as existing cultural practices
demands.
* Waste Type E must be stored according to the regulations for industrial hazardous waste.
* Radioactive wastes must be stored in a radiation-safe place until their radioactivity has decreased to the
point where they are no longer considered radioactive, and then disposed of according to the instructions
given by authorized officials.
Page 26 of 60



In none of the visited hospitals was there an appropriate room for the storage of the waste Type C. Therefore, in
most of the hospitals remodelling will be necessary.
Treatment of Waste
The management of the hospital wastes outside the hospital depends on the kind of treatment they have to
undergo:
*   Waste Types A and B, normal waste and patient's waste can be transported and disposed of
together with other urban waste, once they have been removed from the hospital premises.
* Wastes Types C and D, infectious waste and human body parts, require special transport and
treatment, which will be described further.
* Waste Type E, other hazardous waste, must be disposed of according to the regulations for
industrial hazardous waste.
Treatment of hospital waste means any method, technique or process designed to change the biological character
or composition if any regulated medical waste so as to reduce or eliminate its potential for causing disease.
Regarding the adequate sanitary disposal of health-care waste as a treatment method, and by considering the
specific needs and possibilities for Sierra Leone, only two technical alternatives can be taken into consideration
for waste Type C:
I.     Special incineration
2.     Controlled disposal in sanitary landfills
Controlled disposals in sanitary landfills have the following reported advantages
* It is a recognised and proven method of deposal of this waste category
* The technology is applicable to all infectious wastes and does not require pre-processing of the waste.
* The control is easy and evident
* It is the most economic method.
However, current practices (open dumping) at the existing dumpsites (Freetown, Bo, and Kenema) militate
against this option for the time being. Consequently, and taking into consideration the dangers associated with
health-care waste and in particular HIV, HBV, and HCV transmissions, the current practice of incineration
without flue-gas cleaning should be improved and promoted until the dumpsite are upgraded to sanitary
landfills.
As outlined earlier, infectious hospital waste Type C can be buried at sanitary landfills, provided the following
precautions are taken:
* The hospital waste must be transported to an already filled-up area of the sanitary landfill. This landfill, or at
least the selected area, should be fenced in so that it will have restricted access.
* The hospital waste has to be dumped directly from the truck into the pit without any handling by labourers.
* The same excavation material from the pit must cover it immediately, preferably.
* The areas where infectious wastes have been buried must be marked and documented to avoid re-opening
by further disposal of hospital wastes.
Instruction and training of solid waste personnel, as described in this report, must also be extended to the
personnel working on the sanitary landfill.
The operation of incinerators proposed within this plan may result in certain nuisances that will negatively
impact the existing environmental and social set up.
However, considering the reduced daily quantities of waste to be incinerated by the healthcare facilities, it is
evident that the negative social and environmental impacts will be relatively negligible and the nuisance caused
Page 27 of 60



will be less harmful. Nevertheless, it would be necessary to take the precautions in the installation and
operations of the incinerators:
* To select a site for the incinerator at a considerable distance from the hospital, far away from the
medical wards.
* It is necessary to preferable operate the incinerators at night to reduce smoke nuisance.
* All ash residues should be buried in lined pits within the compound.
The De Mont fort Family of Incinerators is recommendedfor the purposes of this plan. Please see annex 9.
Water Supply and Sanitation
The existing water and sanitation system needs to be improved. New reliable wells and adequate toilets
facilities should be provided. The drains should be rehabilitated to facilitate free-flow of used water. Sucker
trucks should be provided for routing desludging of fill septic tanks. Healthcare staff should have related
training. Please see annex 10.
Legal Requirements
Legislation
There is a lack of legislative framework, by-laws and guidelines for the management of hospital wastes in Sierra
Leone. The objective should be to set up a legal structure that will be maintained and updated by a Ministry of
Health and Sanitation legislation unit. By-laws or regulations on the following themes should be laid down.
* Precise definition of all terms to describe the management of hospital waste
* Classification of hospital wastes
* Internal management of solid waste in health care institutions
* External management of solid waste from health care institutions
* Guidelines for the section of hospital solid waste-handling equipment and materials
* Determination of responsibilities
* Fines and penalties for non-compliance.
There are no effluent standards; it is therefore recommended that WHO the Environmental Protection Board in
establishing national standards for Sierra Leone adapts guidelines for effluent standards. Defaulters should be
prosecuted and appropriately punished by the sanitary courts, which should be so empowered by the proposed
reviewed Public Health Ordinance.
Control Institutions
Legislation alone is a useless instrument without an official organ to monitor compliance and the power to
enforce it by punishing non-compliance
Therefore, an effective control system of the hospital waste management must be established. As described
before, it can be organised on two levels.
* Responsible self-control by a qualified member of their own staff for the executing institutions; the
hospitals for sanitary hospital-internal handling, and the Environmental Health Division for the
management outside the hospital. This should cover collection transportation, treatment and disposal.
* Official control by health inspectors of the ministry who should exercise control over government,
private and mission operated health care institutions and has the legal power to caution and/or punish.
Page 28 of 60



4.1.6 Institutional arrangements and implementation responsibilities
(a) Institutional arrangements
MOHS as the responsible national body for the country's healthcare system is, in the exercise of its activities
most closely related to environmental protection issues. MOHS derives its duties and powers from the Public
Health Ordinance; Act No.23 of 1960, whereby it is responsible for overall sanitation services.
The Environmental Health Division (EHD) is currently entrusted with the comprehensive waste management
throughout the country. From 1982 to 1994, the Freetown services received German Technical and Financial
Assistance. Since 08/94 EHD performs this service without exterior support
Within the hierarchical structure of MOHS, EHD is placed under the Environmental Health (Sanitation)
Manager. It is headed by the Senior Sanitary Engineer, who reports, via the Manager, via the Deputy Director
General of Medical Services, via the Director General Medical Services, to the Minister of Health and
Sanitation.
EHD Hierarchical Position within MOHS
| Ministry of Health and Sanitation
Minister
Director General of Medical Services l
Deputy General of Medical Services (Public Health)
Environmental Health Manager
|FSenior Sanitary Engineerl
Saitr Enginee                                            Mechanical Engineer
I                                                                  IaiayEgne 
Public Health Inspector                                       Lead Mechanic
Public Health Aids       Administrative Accountant         Garage Staff             Store Clerk
Field Supervisors          Admin. Clerks
Waste Handlers    l         Office Labour
(b) Implementation responsibilities
Since 1993, the EHD of MOHS has overall responsibility for ensuring safe waste management countrywide. Its
duties cover:
* Planning and budgeting
* Management, monitoring and control
* Operation performance (collection, disposal and treatment)
* Maintenance and repair of vehicle fleet and equipment
Page 29 of 60



*  Overall administration and accounting.
Monitoring Staff
The EHD monitoring staffs consist of the Senior Sanitary Engineer, Sanitary Engineer (2), Mechanical Engineer
and Public Health Inspectors. The monitoring staffs professional qualification and experience comply fully
with most of their monitored duties. However, due to lack of the involved professional background, certain
responsibilities, in particular in the fields of impact monitoring and mitigation and waste treatment, are despite
remarkable efforts, carried out only in a rudimentary way.
The Senior Sanitary Engineer, with his overall supervisory and controlling functions within the Division and
coordination of its activities with bordering performances of the other Departments' divisions is particularly
overburdened.  He is not in a position, neither from his workload nor (despite his eager interest and
commitment) from his professional training point of view, to perform and pursue the waste management in an
environmentally friendly manner, unless he has undergone intensive relevant training, possibly including on-site
experience in overseas. The senior of the two sanitary engineers has recently been assigned with the special
responsibilities of healthcare waste management and occupational safety. This unit requires immediate
strengthen of its capacity to supervise/implement this plan.
In the Districts, this responsibility is carried out by Senior Health Inspectors who like the Senior Sanitary
Engineer needs training in waste management in an environmentally friendly manner. It is therefore, considered
as a need measure to the implantation of this subproject, to engage an intemational advisory services in the field
of design, planning, construction and landfill operations for a project duration s/he will also be expected to
carryout on the job training of the staff. EHD lacks the capacity. In effect, this provision will ensure capacity
building and training. The Public Health Laboratory at Connaught should be strengthened to carry out sampling
and laboratory analysis of water sources, landfill leachates and incineration emissions; the laboratory manager
will require transportation, equipments, and materials to perform this responsibilities.
SHARP makes provision for the strengthening of the EHD to ensure effective supervision and safe management
of healthcare waste. It also makes provision for the four SHARP-Districts in terms of provision of equipment
and materials, construction of incinerators, staff training and community sensitisation.
It is the view of the consultant that for effective coordination of this plan at the national level, the EHD Sanitary
Engineer charged with the responsibilities of clinical waste and occupational safety unit be seconded to ARG.
S/he will be at the level of a programme to ensure a sufficiently high profile to enable the officer to report
directly to the directly to the Director General of Medical Services and participate in the Top Management Team
meetings of the MOHS. This is in line with the position of Programme Managers within MOHS. The ARG
team includes professionals in Health Education, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Health Administration. This
proposed arrangement would allow for dependency on these professionals for their respective expertise in
implementation of this plan for the five-year project duration and ensure continuity, as the officer will simply
revert to the mainstream of MOHS.
(c) Implementation coordination
The EHD sanitary engineer responsible for healthcare waste management will be seconded ARG. ARG help the
NAS and NAC in formulating the health part of the control and prevention of HIV/AIDS. This will not only
pertain to the public health sector but also to the private sector and even beyond the health sector, defining
norms and standards for all medical activities undertaken by NGOs CBOs. Regular coordinating meetings will
be held as directed by NAS wherein progress will be reviewed and where necessary implementation adjustments
will be made as deemed necessary.
Page 30 of 60



4.2 Implementation schedule/plan
START      FINIST           2003                2004                2005                 2006                2007
YEAR       YEAR
Ql   Q2   Q3   Q4   Ql   Q2   Q3      Q4   Ql   Q2   Q3   Q4  Ql  Q2   Q3   Q4     Ql   02    Q3  Q4
Objective 1; To improve the
management of wastes in all
healthcare institutions
1.1 Equip all healthcare
facilities with appropriate
equipments and material
for collection of healthcare 2003     2007       X X X          X X X          X X X          X X X           X X X          X X X          X X
waste.
1.2 Equip all healthcare
facilities with appropriate
facilities (trolleys, waste
bags, sharp boxes and bins  2003      2007       X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X     X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
and skips) for medical
waste management.          2003       2007       X XX           X X X          X X X          X X X           X    X X X          X X X          X
1.3 Provide adequate and
wholesome water supplies
in all facilities
1.4 Provide wheelbarrows for   2003        2004      X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
all healthcare facilities for
transportation of medical  2003       2004       X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
wastes to incinerators
1.5 Construct adapted
incinerators and lined pits
for healthcare facilities
1.6 Equip personnel involved   2003        2004      X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
in medical waste
management with adequate
and sufficient protective
clothing (boots, gloves,
nose masks, overalls, etc)
Page 31 of 60



Objective 2: To support
private initiative (Private
sector and NGOs) in safe
healthcare waste management.
2.1 Ensure private and NGO
healthcare Facilities manage
their waste in a Safe and     2003       2007      X    X    X    X   X    X    X    X    X    X    X   X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
environment-friendly Manner.
2.2 Ensure private and NGO
healthcare Facilities provide  2003      2007      X    X    X    X   X    X    X    X    X    X    X   X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
protective clothing for their
waste handlers
Objective 3: To raise
awareness of managers, health
staff (public, private and
NGO) and the general public
about the importance of safe
management of healthcare
waste.
3.1 Train health staffs (private,
public and NGO), Trainers,    2003       2004      X    x    X    X   X    X    X    X
Paramedics, and sanitary
worker in healthcare facilities.  2003   2007      X    X    X    X   X    X    X    X    X    X    X   X    X    X    X    X       X    X  X   X
3.2 Sensitise patients and the
general public                      _________
Page 32 of 60



Objective 4: To develop
the institutional capacity of
EHD in the safe management
of healthcare wastes
4.1 Design and or adapt
an improvised         2003       2003       X
incinerator
4.2 Design and or adapt
tools for the pre-    2003       2003       X
collection of medical
wastes in healthcare
facilities            2003       2003       X    X
4.3 Elaborate internal
guidelines for medical  2003     2003       x    x
waste management
4.4 Develop a healthcare   2003       2003                X    X
waste management
policy                2003       2003                           X X X          X XX           X X X          X X X          X X X          X
4.5 Review and update
Public Health         2003       2003       X    X    X    X
Ordinance
4.6 Enact and enforce the  2003       2007      X    X    X    X    X    X    X    x    x    x    x    x
Public Health
Ordinance             2003       2004       X    X   X   X      X   X     X    X
4.7 Rehabilitate existing  2004       2004                          X    X    X    X
dumpsites to sanitary
landfills
4.8 Construct new          2003       2003      X    X    X    X
sanitary landfills
4.9 Provide technical and
training assistance
4.10 Overseas Training
4.11 Strengthen the Pubic
Health Laboratory at
Connaught_Hospital                                             33_of_60
Page 33 of 60



4.3 HCWM Plan implementation monitoring and evaluation
4.3.1 Monitoring activities and strategy
*    Monthly supervision and reports at District Level by Senior Health Inspector
*    Quarterly Supervision from national level by Sanitary Engineer and ARG
* Quarter meetings both at District and national levei to review progress by Sanitary Engineer, DHMT, ARG
4.3.2 Evaluation activities and strategy
* Annual review, midterm evaluation and end of project evaluation (ARG and Sanitary Engineer)
4.3.3 Reporting
Report name               What will it contain?    Frequency of production   Production responsibility        submitted?             |
_______________________                ~~~~~(quarterly  and  annually)                            submitted?__ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _
I .Supervisory            Status    of     project  Monthly (Districts)      Senior Health Inspector          DHT, HQ, ARG, NAS
implementation, activities,  Quarterly (national)  Sanitary engineer
constrains                                                                          .
2. Minutes                Proceedings of meeting   Quarterly meetings        Designated reporter              HQ, MOHS,ARG, NAS
3. Review                 Progress report          Annually                       ARG                         HQ, MOHS, ARG, NAS
4. Laboratory             Concentrations  of  the  Monthly                   Laboratory Manager               HQ, MOHS, ARG, NAS
various constituents in air,
soil, and water samples.
4. Evaluation             Project achievements and  Midterm                                                   HQ, MOHS, ARG, NAS
challenges               End of Project                  ARG
Page 34 of 60



5. ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Tables on Healthcare Facilities in Sierra Leone as of November 2001
An enquiry of nearly all-existing healthcare facilities in Sierra Leone are summarise in the
following tables.
Table 1: Summary of the hospitals by districts, type, and ownership as of November 2001
HOSPITALS
No                                                                   Not
District         G    P    M   I   TOTAL     FUNCTIONAL        FUNCTIONAL
I     Bo               I    0    1   0   2         1                 1
2     Moyamba          I    0    1   1   3         1                 2
3     Pujehun          I    0    0   0   1         1                 0
4     Bonthe           1    0    1   1   3         1                 2
5     Kenema           1    1    2  1    5         2                 3
6     Kono             I    1    0    1  3         1                 2
7     Kailabun         2    1    1   0   4         I                 3
8     Bombali          1    0    2   0   3         I                 2
9     Koinadugu        I    0    0   0   1         1                 0
10    Kambia           1    0    0   0   1         0                 1
11    Port Loko       2     1   2    0   5         3                 2
12    Tonkolili        I    0   0    0   1         0                 1
13    Western Urban    8    9    1   1   19        19                0
14    Western Rural   1    0    0    0   1         1                 0
TOTAL            23   13   11  5   52        33                19
Source: MCH/EPI progress report July 2001
Note: OWNERSHIP KEY
G=Government=Private=Mission, I=lndustrial.
Page 35 of 60



Table 2: Summary of the Peripheral Health Units (PHUs)
No. of No of                   No.        of No.          PHUs No.               of
No     District                   PHUs         functioning       non-             suppprted by        PHUs to be
PHIUs             functionin       NGOs                 rehabilitate
g                                     d
PHUs__                                     _   _    _
1      Kenema                     66           49               17               46                   13
2      Kono                       52           4                48               4                    48
3      Port Loko                  86           58               28               32                   23
4      Moyamba                    85           55                30               8                   52
5      Pujehun                    46           34                12              25                   37
6      Kailahun                   55           10               45                5                   52
7      Bonthe                     39           21                18              20                   21
8      Tonkolili                  65           34               31                15                  51
9      Bo                         68           65                3               29                   27
10     Kambia                     31           21                10              9                    32
11     Koinadugu                  37           9                28               9                    30
12     Bombali                    79           16               63               16                   3
13     Western           Area     20           20               0                4                    3
Urban
14     Westem    Area Rural       13           10               3                2                    1
=  742         406              336              224                  393
Source: MCH/EPI progress report July 2001
Table 3: Summary          of government hospitals by category, number of existing                       beds, bed
occupancy rates, functioning and not functioning.
No   of   Average      Bed   TYPE OF               LOCATION           REMARKS
No    HOSPITAL                             beds     Occupancy           HOSPITAL
1     Bo District                         334       250                 Regional             Bo                  Functional
2     Bonthe District                      64       20                  District              Bonthe             Functional
3     Moyamba District                     60       36                  District              Moyamba            Functional
4     Pujehun District                     43       40                  District              Pujehun            Functional
5     Kenema District                      255      204                 District             Kenema              Functional
6     Kailahun Hospital                    0        0                   District             Kailahun            Destroyed
7.    Daru Hospital                        7        5                   District             Daru                Functional
8     Kono District                        60       30                  District              Kono               Functional
9     Bombali District                     60       42                  District              Makeni             Functional
10    Koinadugu District                   100      70                  District             Kabala              Functional
11    Magburaka                           0         0                  Regional              Magburaka           Vandalised
12    Mile 91                             20        14                  District             Mile 91             Functional
13    Port Loko                           68        50                  District             Port Loko           Functional
14    Lungi                               50        40                 District              Lungi               Functional
15    Kambia                              0         0                  District              Kambia              Destroyed
16    Connaught                           300       221                Main Referral         Freetown            Functional
17    Rukupa                              42        40                 District              Freetown           Functional
18    Macauley Street Hospital            40        35                 District              Freetown           Functional
19    Military Barracks                   250       150                Military              Freetown            Functional
20    Police Barracks                     30        25                  Police               Freetown            Functional
21    Macauley street                     40        35                  District             Freetown            Functional
22    PCM Hospital                         150      122                 Referral             Freetown            Functional
23    Children's Hospital                  146      117                 Referral             Freetown            Functional
24    Goderich Hospital                   42        20                  District             Freetown            Functional
Total                               2161      1566
Page 36 of 60



Functioning PHUs refers to those providing, at least the following services, maternal health,
promotion of growth monitoring and breast-feeding and immunisation.
Table 4: Current Statistics (November 2001) in visited hospitals.
No.   Name of hospital                 HOSPITAL         No.    Ave. No. Of No. Of
TYPE             Of    Outpatients    Hospital
beds   per month      Staff
1.    Connaught I                      Referral         300    1200           634
2.    Bo Government                    Regional         334    1650           219
3.    Port Loko District               District         68     1500           92
4     Brookfields Community            Private          40     90             30
5     Kenema Government                Regional         255    900            105
6     Moyamba Government               District         60     1050           175
7     Macauley Street Satellite Clinic  District        40     4500           30
8     George Brook Community Centre    Health Centre    3      450            21
Total                                                   1100  11340          1306
These healthcare facilities are all functional and the statistics are as of November 2001.
Page 37 of 60



Annex 2: Monitoring Plan
Activity     Technical       Parameters        Methods to be used    Sampling              Frequency of     Institution for   Institution for monitoring  Duration
Details         To be Measured                           Locations            Measurements     implementation    implementation
Water quality  Relates to      Chemical and       Laboratory and        Landfill effluents and  Monthly       Public Health     Environment Officers
Tests          pollution/      micro organisms   physical analysis     potentially affected                   Laboratory       NAS/ARG/EHD                 2003-2007
Contamination                                            watercourses
Air Quality       -Do-         Odour, visibility,  Visual observation and  Landfill sites and  Daily for odour  Public Health   Environment Officers
analysis                       chemicals          laboratory analysis   incinerator-chutes   and visibility,  Laboratory        NAS/ARGIEHD                2003-2007
and monthly for
air analysis
Soil analysis    -Do-          Chemical and       Laboratory and        Construction and     Monthly          Public Health     Environment Officers
micro organisms    physical analysis    landfill sites                         Laboratory        NAS/ARG/EHD                2003-2007
Page 38 of 60



Annex 3: PERSONS AND INSTITUTION CONTACTED
-      The Ministry of Lands, housing, country planning and the environment, at National
Level.
-      Ministry of Health and Sanitation at National level
-      Paramount Chiefs, Elders, general public of target communities and local NGOs of
Koinadugu, Moyamba, Bombali and Kono districts.
-      The respective District Health Management Team Members.
-      Programme Managers of the Malaria Control, Tuberculosis Control, Onchocerciasis
Control, HIV/AIDs and Environmental Health Programmes of the Ministry of Health and
Sanitation and their respective District Focal Point Persons in Moyamba, Bombali, Kono
and Koinadugu Districts.
Regional Environment Officers.
Mr. Foday Koroma - Entomologist, MOHS
Mr Daniel Tholley - Hydro geologist, National Onchocerciasis Control Programme.
Dr. Br ma Kargbo - Current National AIDS Control Programme Manger; he is the
outgoing OCP Manager.
Dr. Abdulai Jalloh - OCP Manager, Sierra Leone.
Page 39 of 60



Annex 4: REFERENCES
1. Health-care waste Management Study for Sierra Leone, November 2001
2. Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01 October 1998).
3. Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30, June 1990)
4. Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, September 1991)
6. National Environmental Policy
7. National Environmental Protection Act. 2000
8. Sierra Public Health Ordinance
9. Draft National Environmental Health Policy
10. Sierra Leone Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project, Project Appraisal
Document, November 2001.
11. Sierra Leone Integrated Health Sector Investment Project (IHSIP), Supervision Mission
(April 15 - 27, 2002); AIDE-MEMOIRE
12. Safe management of wastes from health-care activities, WHO 1999
13. George Tchobanoglus, Hilary Theisen & Samuel Vigila. Integrated Solid Waste Management
Page 40 of 60



Annex 5: The SELF-LEARNING PROCESS
The training of medical staff will heavily rely on a self-learning process. The advantages of self-
learning are several: It diminishes the absence of staff from their sites. It gives the student time to
reread and to ponder over difficult issues. It might stimulate a discussion between members of a
Health center team. It might be a cheaper solution than calling health staff to a central training
venue, which includes per diems and overnight costs (but this should not be a decisive factor).
Practically it will take this form:
A group of up to 20 health staff, preferably of mixed level will be brought together for I or 2 days
and will be taught general principles of the subject. A pre-test is essential to assess the level of
knowledge and possibly to probe the attitude. The result of the test should be used to address the
identified weaknesses.
The participants then will be sent back to their working place with the task to study the
module(s). It should be emphasized that the materials must not be studied alone but mutual
assistance is recommended; making use of the existing experiences and knowledge in the team.
An underlying assignment is to strengthen the teamwork. During the process, if at all possible, the
Trainer/Supervisor will visit the sites to resolve existing difficulties.
After about 4 weeks the same groups will be recalled and the learning process will be discussed
and evaluated. This should take 2-3 days, depending of the level of achievement. The theory
should be reviewed extensively to assess the students' accomplishments. Some practical exercises
can be added as well as some case studies for which the participants can propose answers after
working in groups on possible solutions.
This process can be repeated; if necessary a limited number of modules can be treated in one
cycle.
At the end of the training the students have to sit for an exam and -if possible- pass a practical
exercise like a role-play. The agent then receives a certificate and will be entitled to be
responsible for the safe management of healthcare wastes. Above average students can be
integrated in the trainer/supervisory team.
Limitations of the approach
It will be obvious that not everything can be taught by this approach. It has to be supplemented by
other ways of learning; interpersonal communication, attitudes, practical procedures etc. must be
learned in a different setting. Anyhow, a continuous training needs assessment using; a variety of
different methods to reinforce the knowledge and skills of the health staff and positively change
their attitude can be employed.
It might be difficult to motivate the health workers to study at home. The classical seminar type
of training has been a source of additional income. To stimulate interest for this form of learning
a process of certification should be introduced. This can go together with another form of
motivation, again within the context of continuing training, e.g. an attractive medical book, a
specific medical instrument, a rewindable radio to listen to educational broadcasts etc.
Another important issue that has to be addressed is that each training session needs in addition to
written material for the participants, also a guide for the trainers. Adult education needs a
different approach than formal education. There seems to be sufficient expertise and experience
in Sierra Leone to elaborate these trainer modules.
Page 41 of 60



Recommendations
* Develop and introduce the self-learning method
* Develop additional innovative approaches to inform health staff
* Every training module should come together with instructions for the trainer.
Plan of implementation
1. Select cooperating NGOs and CBOs
2. Elaborate the theoretical model of self-learning
3. Define instructions for the self-learning method
Page 42 of 60



Annex 6: CRITERIA FOR SECLECTING, DEVELOPING AND OPERATING
SANITARY LANDFILL SITES.
A sanitary landfill is a contained and engineered structure, which leads to anaerobic
biodegradation and consolidation of compacted waste materials within confining layers of
compacted soil. In a sense, a sanitary landfill is a bioreactor. At a sanitary landfill, there are no
nuisance impacts of constant burning, smoke, flies, and unsightly rubbish heaps. However,
because the waste is not exposed to rainfall, surface runoff or groundwater, leachate consists
largely of the waters generated during biodegradation. Therefore, leachate generated from a
sanitary landfill is typically much more concentrated in organics and metals than the leachate
generated from an open dump, often by a factor of more than 10, and thus needs to be properly
treated. Similarly, because of the anaerobic nature of decomposition, methane is generated and
needs to be properly ventilated.
Sanitary landfills located in arid areas with limited potential infiltration may have more relaxed
design requirements than those located in wet areas. Similarly, sanitary landfills located on
coastal lands underlain by naturally undrinkable groundwater may have more relaxed design
requirements than those in inland areas overlying potential usable groundwater regimes.
In summary, as described below, a sanitary landfill design would need to have structural integrity
over the long term, provide for daily cover of fresh waste, and incorporate mitigating measures to
manage leachate and gas produced within the landfill cells.
A Sanitary landfill is a step-by-step construction activity involving daily layering, compacting,
and soil covering of waste into cells. The site should not be subject to seasonally high
groundwater levels or to periodic flooding. The site preparation and landfill operations must be
designed to minimize contact of surface runoff and percolating rainwater with the waste. This
requires diversion of up gradient surface drainage away from the landfill operational area, sloping
of the cells to avoid ponding of waters on top of them, and compaction of waste and soil as each
cell is being constructed so that infiltration potential is minimized.
At sites where potentially usable groundwater exists in unconfined layers, any rain and surface
runoff waters which percolate through the waste and become contaminated leachate need to be
collected. The leachate collection system consists of a network of perforated pipe within a gravel
bed, which is placed over the landfill liner. At a minimum the liner would consist of a layer of
impermeable clay soil placed in thin layers at optimum moisture content and compacted with a
roller. At large landfills receiving municipal waste for major metropolitan areas or at co-disposal
landfills where hazardous waste quantities could be received in significant quantities, additional
liners made from impermeable geomembrane material may be necessary to protect sensitive
groundwater resources. The landfill liner and the leachate collection network need to be properly
sloped to enable gravity flow of contaminated water to treatment ponds.
The ponds would be designed to encourage anaerobic decomposition, followed by aerobic
decomposition. To the extent possible, full evaporation in the final pond is desired so that no
discharge of treated effluent is necessary. If full evaporation is not possible, recycling of treated
effluent back to the landfill (on the completed areas of fill), discharge to a sewage treatment plant,
or tanker haul to a sewage treatment plant is recommended. Discharge to surface water is not
acceptable unless the treated effluent can be assured of not having a significant adverse impact on
the water quality requirements of the receiving water.
Page 43 of 60



In addition to leachate management, landfill gas management is a critical component of every
sanitary landfill design. Minimum requirements are that the landfill gases would need to be
properly ventilated. During site preparation, the landfill side slopes are lined with impermeable
clay to curtail lateral migration of the gases, and then lined with coarse rock or gravel to allow
gases to escape to the atmosphere. Within every 0.1 hectare, or less, of the waste cell
development area, landfilling would be conducted around a gas ventilation structure consisting of
either a perforated pipe packed in gravel or a rock-filled wire mesh enclosure.
Construction of a sanitary landfill occurs in regular phases, over the life of the site. At the start of
construction, the access road, entrance gate, weighbridge, fencing, water supply and Phase I
waste cell areas are constructed. Leachate treatment facilities to handle flows generated at the
peak period over the life of the site are constructed from the onset. Once the capacity of the Phase
I waste cell area is nearly utilized, the Phase II waste cell area requires site preparation and
construction (i.e., the Phase II liners, leachate collection networks, gas ventilation systems etc).
And so on, over the life of the site, until each Phase of the landfill is completed. Each Phase
typically has 3 to 5 years of waste capacity.
Each sanitary landfill is uniquely designed to conform to the soil, geologic, topographic, and
water resource conditions of the site. To minimize the costs of operating a sanitary landfill, the
first and most critical step is proper siting in a location, which enables economic operations and
cost-effective environmental protection. Also, proper siting is essential to minimizing the cost of
waste collection.
The following site selection criteria are provided as guidance. A proposed landfill site can be
selected even though it does not meet each of the screening criteria. Engineering design can
mitigate inadequate site conditions; but at a cost. When selecting a site, which does not meet all
of the screening criteria, possible engineering solutions, which would bring the site into
conformance with the intent of the unmet criteria, shall be incorporated in the design. Criteria,
which shall be addressed as part of a screening process, neither includes, but is not limited to, the
following:.
*      Adequate land area and volume to provide sanitary landfill capacity to meet projected
needs for at least 10 years.
*      A site accessible within 30 minutes travel time (a function of road and traffic conditions)
is to be sought, even if it means buying land, because of the need to avoid adversely
affecting the productivity of collection vehicles. At distances greater than 30 minutes
travel, for collection operations to be economic, investment in either large capacity
collection vehicles (5 tons. per load or greater) or transfer stations with large capacity
vehicles (20 tons. or greater) would be necessary.
*      If transfer stations are necessary, landfill sites should be accessible within 2 hours travel
time one-way from the transfer station.
*      Groundwater's seasonally high table level (i.e., 10 year high) is at least 1.5 meters below
the proposed base of any excavation or site preparation to enable landfill cell
development
*      Soils above the groundwater's seasonable high table level are relatively impermeable
(preferably, less than 10-9 meters/second permeability when undisturbed).
*      No environmentally significant wetlands of important biodiversity or reproductive value
are present within the potential area of the landfill cell development, unless they have
adequate capacity to absorb/assimilate the pollution loadings anticipated.
Page 44 of 60



None of the areas within the landfill boundaries are part of the 10-year groundwater
recharge area for existing or pending water supply development.
No private, or public drinking, irrigation, or livestock water supply wells within 500
meters down gradient of the landfill boundaries, unless alternative water supply sources
are readily and economically available and the owner(s) gives written consent to the risk
of well abandonment.
No known environmentally rare or endangered species breeding areas or protected living
areas are present within the site boundaries.
No significant protected forests are within 0.5km of the landfill cell development area.
No major lines of electrical transmission or other infrastructure (i.e., gas, sewer, water
mains) are crossing the landfill cell development area, unless the landfill operation would
clearly cause no concern or rerouting is economically feasible.
No underlying limestone, carbonate or other porous rock formations which would be
incompetent as barriers to leachate and gas migration, where the formations are more
than 1.5 meter in thickness and present as the uppermost geologic unit.
No underlying underground mines which could be adversely affected by surface activities
of landfilling, or mines resources, which could be rendered less accessible by landfilling,
unless the owner(s) gives explicit consent.
No residential development within 0.25km from the perimeter of the proposed landfill
cell development.
No visibility of the proposed landfill cell development area from  residential
neighbourhoods within 1km. If residents live within 1km of the site, landscaping and
protective berms would need to be incorporated into the design to minimize visibility of
operations.
No perennial stream within 0.03km  down gradient of the proposed landfill cell
development, unless culverting or channelling is economically and environmentally
feasible to protect the stream from potential contamination.
No significant seismic risk within the region of the landfill, which could cause
destruction of berms, drains or other civil works, or require unnecessarily costly
engineering measures.
No fault lines or significantly fractured geologic structure within 0.5 km of the perimeter
of the proposed landfill cell development, which would allow unpredictable movement of
gas or leachate.
Topography amenable to development of sanitary landfill by the Cell (Bund) and/or
Trench method. The Area method is not preferred because of its higher energy and soil
cover requirements.
Availability on-site of suitable soil covers materials to meet the needs for intermediate
(minimum of 30cm depth) and final cover (minimum of 60cm depth), as well as bund
construction (for the Cell method of landfill). Preferably, the site would also have
adequate soil to also meet daily cover needs. However, daily cover (usually a minimum
of 15cm depth of soil) needs can be alternatively met by using removable tarps or by
removing the previously laid daily soil cover at the start of each day for reuse at the end
of the same day. For purposes of this siting, assume that at least I cubic meter of daily,
intermediate, and final soil cover is needed for every 10 cubic meters of compacted
waste.
No Siting within 3 km of a turbojet airport and 1.6 km of a piston-type airport. For sites
located more than 3 km and less than 8 km from nearest turbojet airport (or more than 1.6
km and less than 8 km from the nearest piston-type airport), no consideration is to be
given unless the aviation authority has provided written permission stating that it
considers the location as not threatening to air safety.
Page 45 of 60



No sitting within a floodplain subject to 10-year floods and, if within areas subject to a
100-year flood, must be amenable to an economic design, which would eliminate the
potential for washout.
Avoid sitting within lkm of socio-politically sensitive sites where public acceptance
might by unlikely (i.e., memorial sites, churches, schools).
Area accessible by a competent paved public road, which can accommodate the
additional truck traffic without significant effect on traffic flow rates. From the public
road into the site, the access road to be constructed should be less than 1Okm for large
landfills serving metropolitan areas and less than 1km for small landfills serving
secondary cities.
Page 46 of 60



Annex 7: GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF HEALTHCARE
WASTES.
1. Definitions and Classification of Health-care Wastes
Health-care waste includes all waste generated by health-care establishments, research facilities,
and laboratories. In addition, it includes the waste originating from "minor" or "scattered"
sources - such as that produced in the course of health care undertaken in the home (dialysis,
insulin injections, etc.). These residues can be more or less hazardous depending on their origin
within the hospital.
According to WHO, from the total of wastes generated by health-care facilities, almost 80% are
general waste comparable to domestic waste. It comes mostly from the administrative and
housekeeping functions of health-care establishments and may also include waste generated
during maintenance of health-care premises. The remaining approximately 20% of wastes are
regarded as hazardous materials that may be infectious, toxic or radioactive and may create a
variety of health risks. This study is concerned almost exclusively with the hazardous health-care
wastes.
The correct treatment of health-care waste must be based upon consideration of various aspects,
including the health and safety of all persons within the hospital (staff, patients and visitors), and
the protection of the population outside the hospital from contagious diseases. The specific
physical and or chemical properties of the waste with regard to its potential to harm the
environment must also be considered.
Consequently, health-care wastes may be classified into groups based on the management
techniques which experience has shown are appropriate in each case. Thus, depending on the
kind of treatment they require, healthcare waste in Sierra Leone can be classified as follows:
Type A: Normal Waste
Waste similar to domestic waste and not requiring any special treatment. This is the waste
produced by the hospital administration, the cleaning service, the kitchens, stores and workshops.
Type B: Patients' Waste
Waste that requires special handling within the hospital. The aim of such handling is to
prevent dispersal of pathogens within the hospital, since these are potentially able to
infect persons whose resistance has already been diminished due to illness, advanced age,
stress, trauma, lesions, etc. This risk is being aggravated by the concentration of germs in
certain areas. Outside the hospital, these wastes can be handled similarly to those of
Type A. This waste type generally derives from normal inpatient wards: outpatient
examinations room, and first aid areas.
Type C: Infectious Waste
Waste that requires special handling inside and outside the hospital. This group comprises all
waste from isolation wards in which patients with highly infectious diseases are accommodated
and infectious residues from clinical laboratories for microbiological investigations.
This category of waste also includes all disposable waste from all hospital areas that constitute a
real risk of infection when being disposed of, such as needles and sharp objects and objects that
are covered with blood or human secretion.
Page 47 of 60



Type D: Human Parts
This waste type requires special treatment, not so much to prevent infections, but rather for
ethical reasons. This group comprises parts of human bodies generated in operating theatres,
delivery rooms, morgues, autopsies, etc.
Examples are organic tissue, placentas and amputated limbs.
Type E: Other Hazardous Waste
This group covers waste types that, for legal reasons or because of their physical or chemical
properties necessitate special handling.
Hospitals provide a service and hence have technical infrastructures that can also generate
hazardous wastes similar to industrial wastes.
This type also includes radioactive material that may also be handles by authorised personnel, and
other wastes classified by legal regulations as hazardous.
Type F: Recyclable Material
Non-contaminated materials from the administration, stores, workshops and so on, should be
recycled or reused for reasons of environmental protection.
Type G: Sludge from the Hospital Wastewater Treatment Plant
This sludge can be heavily contaminated and requires additional treatment before being disposed
off.
The present study is primarily concemed with the infectious and pathological wastes, Type C and
Type D.
2. Segregation and Collection
Every site within the HCF at which waste is generated must be equipped with a sufficient number
of waste containers, and emphasis should be placed on the need to segregate "risk waste" from
other waste, and to use appropriate packaging and marking.
HCF wastes Types B and C should always be collected in disposable receptacles that meet the
following requirements.
* Leak-resistant
* Impervious to moisture
* Of sufficient strength to prevent tearing or bursting under normal conditions of use and
handling
* Non-transparent
* Seal-able to prevent transmission of micro-organisms
Polythene bags with a minimum thickness of 100 microns and a size of approx. 60cm x 100cm
fulfil these conditions if sharp and pointed objects (syringes, scalpel blades, etc.) are previously
placed in cut- and puncture-resistant containers, such as disposable plastic bottles or cardboard
boxes.
The filled bags are closed off using a plastic strip, which, once fastened in place, cannot be
reopened. It is then removed from the bag holder and placed at the transfer area for its removal by
the collection service/waste handler in cases of on-site disposal.
Neither re-use of the disposable receptacles nor compression of the waste is permissible.
Page 48 of 60



For Type D waste, the receptacles should be placed directly in the area where the waste is
generated. They must then be sealed and deposited in the corresponding transfer area.
The transfer or storage areas should be set apart from other facilities, be sufficiently well
ventilated, and have sanitary facilities for personnel to wash and disinfect their hands.
3. Transports and Storage within the Hospital
The waste should be removed each day from the transfer areas and taken to a storage place. This
must be done with care in order to prevent the rupturing or opening of the bags, resulting in
release of harmful pathogens into the environment.
Waste of Types A and B, once from within the HCF, can be treated as domestic wastes.
Waste of Types C and D must be transported to a special storage room. This depot must be
situated so as not to affect other facilities of the hospital, such as kitchen, laundry, wards, etc. in
anyway. It must take the form of an enclosed space to which only authorized personnel have
access.
The waste stored in the depot must be picked up daily, and the depot area must be washed out
afterwards each time. The carts used for internal transport of the waste must also be regularly
cleaned and disinfected.
4. Transports Outside the Hospital
Waste belonging to the Types A and B can be transported by the same service that collects
municipal household waste or the waste handler in the case of on-site disposal.
If waste Type C is not treated and disinfected in the hospital area, this waste must be transported
by special collection tours. The vehicles used for this transportation can be of varying standards,
according to the destination of the waste.
(a) Transport to a central treatment plant:
It is recommended to transport the infectious waste to the central treatment plants in
specially designed vehicles which do not compress the waste and which have equipment
that prevents the bags from sliding around during transport. The interior of the vehicle
must be easy to clean and the floors have raise edges to retain any liquids that may
escape from the bags, and it must be adequately ventilated.
(b) Transport to a sanitary landfill site:
In the case that the infectious waste is not to be transported to a central treatment plant
but directly to the sanitary landfill site for burying in restricted areas, transport can be
carried out in a different way. In the special case where the bags with the waste no
longer have to be manipulated by personnel but can be dumped directly onto the
prepared excavations, transportation can be done by normal waste collection trucks.
HCF wastes Type D (human body parts and deceased foetuses) should be sealed in plastic
containers or plastic bags, which can be transported in the special vehicles, designed for transport
of wastes Type C or in any other pick-up or delivery van that is suitable.
5. Medical waste treatment methods
Studies carried out recently have shown that common patients' waste, with the exception of that
from patients with infectious-contagious diseases, is no more contaminated with micro-organisms
Page 49 of 60



than domestic waste, which means that its transport and final disposal does not pose a major risk
to the health of the general community outside the hospital.
Accordingly, in the case of the waste included in Types A and B, there is no sanitation-related
reason for not transporting and disposing of them together with other urban waste, once they have
been removed from the HCF premises.
In contrast, the waste types included in groups C and D, namely infectious and human part,
definitely require special management and handling from their production all the way to their
final; disposal, including treatment which ensures elimination of their harmful properties in order
to minimize the risk of contamination and infection.
The terms "sterilization", "disinfection" and "decontamination" are used in discussions of
medical waste. They need to be precisely defined in any regulation:
Sterilization denotes the killing of all living organism in a material. If it is done
thermally, it needs temperatures over 134 C and is, in the opinion of experts, too
restrictive for the treatment of all hospital waste materials.
By including in the term "treatment" as the adequate ways of disposal of HCF waste, the
following methods of treatment can be distinguished:
* Special Incineration
Incineration of both the infectious and the organic types of HCF waste is a recognized
and proven method of eliminating their hazardous properties. This method of treatment
also has the advantages of great reduction of the waste volume and the gaining of
calorific energy, which can be used for heating and steam production. Various different
technologies and patents for combustion are available on the market today, most of which
are adequate.
* Sterilisation by Heat
This type of waste treatment is generally performed in autoclaves by steam treatment at
high temperatures. It is recommended for microbiological cultures from clinical or
research laboratories, which should not leave the investigation area.
It is not adequate for the large total volume of HCF waste that needs treatment.
* Disinfecting by Steam
Another type of thermal; treatment used for pathological waste is the application of heat
at about 100C, thus transforming infectious wastes into harmless residues. The waste is
collected in bags consisting of several layers of paper, with the inside reinforced by a
layer of plastic. These bags are placed in a hermetically sealed chamber into which steam
is pressed in order to inactivate the pathogens. To ensure that the steam penetrates all
parts of the charged waste, the air in the chamber is first evacuated to create a vacuum
prior to admitting the pressurized stream. This process is repeated several times following
a set pattern lasting approximately 25 minutes.
Once this treatment has been completed, the waste can be handled as household waste
and disposed of in sanitary landfills.
Page 50 of 60



* Microwave Disinfecting
Another method used to disinfect clinical waste in stationary or mobile plants is heating
it by microwave energy.
The waste material to be treated by microwaves must first be broken down and shredded
to a certain size. As the microwave-process only works in the presence of water, and as
clinical wastes are generally rather dry, the shredded waste mixture must be moistened
beforehand by adding water and stream.
In a pipe-shaped screw conveyor, the shredded and dampened material is continuously
transported under microwave generators to be heated by irradiation.  The waste
temperature to guarantee the temperature time schedule of decontamination regulates the
screw conveyor speed.
* Chemical Disinfecting
There are many techniques for disinfection by chemical means, but none of them has
been proven to be effective for treatment of hospital waste.
Equipment is available for shredding or granulating and then disinfecting waste by means
of disinfectant liquid; however, its use is generally quite problematic, and there is no
guarantee that the disinfectant liquid used will penetrate to all parts of the batch of waste
undergoing treatment.
In addition, chemical liquids impose an additional burden on the environment, as
chemical disinfectants themselves are inherently hazardous chemicals. Therefore, the use
of chemical disinfectants may actually increase personal and environmental risks
associated with the management of HCF wastes.
*  Controlled Disposal in Sanitary Landfills
Human pathogens live and grow best in an environment that most closely resembles the
conditions prevailing in the human body. Conditions in the exterior environment are, for
the most part, not conducive to the survival and growth of human pathogens. Studies
have demonstrated the rapid death of selected human pathogens after burial in a sanitary
landfill, and indicate that land filling can be a satisfactory mechanism for the treatment
and disposal of health-care wastes.
For these reasons, infectious Health-care waste of Type C can be buried in sanitary
landfills if certain precautions are taken.
* Burial in Cemetery or Incineration in Crematorium
Health-care wastes Type D, human body parts and placentas, can be buried in certain
areas of cemeteries or be incinerated in crematoria.
* Chemical-Physical Treatment
As far as the wastes included in Type E are concemed, discussion of details is dispensed
with here, since these wastes are not restricted to Health-care facilities and their
management should be generally regulated by legislation covering industrial hazardous
wastes.
Page 51 of 60



Radioactive waste produced in health-care establishments is of very low-level radioactivity and
has a short-life. Residues should be stored safely until their radioactivity has decayed to the point
that they are no longer considered radioactive, and then be disposed of according to their other
characteristics (e.g. chemical, infectious or general) and in conformity with national regulations
6. Instructions and Training of Personnel
The technological advance which have been made in health-care call for control of
microbiological contamination and hospital infections to be interdisciplinary; in other words,
involving not only the physicians, as in the past, but instead spanning an entire groups of
professionals with different specialised tasks. Only in this way is it possible, for example, to
prevent infections stemming from poor handling of waste. This aspect ought to be of great
concern to all persons working in the field of medicine since it imposes additional problems on
the basic task of treating patients in order to restoring their health.
Every health-care facility should implement and supervise training and maintenance programmes
for the health-care, maintenance and technical personnel. Doctors, paramedics and administrative
health-care personnel must, for example, know how to separate infectious and other hazardous
waste from non-hazardous refuse and how to handle it.
Training of solid waste personnel should also be directed at the municipal collection and disposal
services.  Solid waste personnel on collection trucks or at disposal sites must be able to
differentiate wastes by colour or other codes in order to handle each type properly. Programmes
should include the following themes:
* Categories of health-care waste and rapid assessment
* Segregation, storage and collection methods and equipment
* Treatment and disposal methods.
The general public needs to be informed about the risk associated with exposure to infectious
health-care wastes. This can be achieved by advocacy, seminars with groups, workshops, print
media (flyers, posters, newspapers, etc), radio and television discussions and jingles.
7. Monitoring and Control
Together with an appropriate legislation regulating waste management inside and outside the
health-care institutions and the installation of the appropriate infrastructure, an effective control
system of the health-care waste management must be established.
The control of the safe management of waste from health-cares facilities should be organized on
two levels.
Level 1
Responsible self-control of the executing institutions by a qualified member of their own
staff, both for the internal sanitary handling, as well as of the municipal services for the
management outside the hospital, the collection, transportation, treatment and disposal.
Level 2
Public Health Inspectors of the Ministry of Health and Sanitation should be charged with
official control, with the power of caution and sanction over all health-care facilities.
Page 52 of 60



8. Waste receptacles and collection
According to the investigations made at the hospitals, one of the main problems of hygienic waste
handling is the lack of appropriate receptacles. In nearly all cases, infectious waste together with
syringes and needles, etc. are openly collected and transported in open buckets, intended for the
cleaning service but not for infectious hospital waste handling.
Therefore, thorough attention has to be given to providing the hospitals with adequate equipment
for the collection of the waste.
In Annex B of this study, the general requirements for receptacles are described. According to
this, the following system will be recommended for the hospitals in Sierra Leone.
* Waste type A and B can be handled as is done now, drums and plastic buckets with tight-
fitting covers respectively.
* The collection and transport of Waste Types C and D must be improved substantially.
In areas where waste of Type C is generated, metallic circular bag-holder with lid shall be
employed. In these bag holders, polythene bags will be provided. For better identification the
bags will be coloured, and sharp and pointed objects such as syringes blades or glass must be
collected in puncture-resistant containers (sharp boxes) before being disposed of in the bags.
The filled bags are closed off using plastic strips, which, once fastened in place, should not be
reopened. Then, they are removed from the bag holder and placed at the transfer area for their
removal by the collection service direct to the on-site disposal site. Neither re-use of the
disposable receptacles nor compression of the waste is permissible.
The most appropriate receptacles for waste Type D (human body parts) are conical shaped plastic
buckets with a hermetically sealing plastic lid and a handle for easy handling. If, for economic
reasons, it is not possible to acquire this type of receptacle, plastic bags can be used as for the
waste Type C. They must have a different colour so that the collection service can distinguish
them.
A general upgrading of the hospital's internal collection equipment (bins, carts, storage areas and
protection equipment, etc.) is recommended.
9. Transports and Storage in the Hospital
The waste has to be removed each day from the transfer areas and taken to a storage place.
Rubber-wheeled carts with a bin made of plastic or non-rusting metal should be used for this
should have a smooth surface for easy cleaning and disinfecting. Moreover, the dimensions must
be appropriate for easy manoeuvrability along the route to be followed inside the hospital.
The storage of the different types of waste has to be done in the corresponding places according
to the following requirements.
* Solid waste types A and B should be deposited in the containers used for domestic refuse.
* Waste Type C should be deposited in a special storage room to which only authorized
personnel have access.
* Waste Type D should be immediately transported to a cemetery and buried as existing
cultural practices demands.
* Waste Type E must be stored according to the regulations for industrial hazardous waste.
Page 53 of 60



* Radioactive wastes must be stored in a radiation-safe place until their radioactivity has
decreased to the point where they are no longer considered radioactive, and then disposed of
according to the instructions given by authorized officials.
In none of the visited hospitals was there an appropriate room for the storage of the waste Type
C. Therefore, in most of the hospitals remodelling will be necessary.
IO. Treatment of Waste
The management of the hospital wastes outside the hospital depends on the kind of treatment they
have to undergo:
* Waste Types A and B, normal waste and patient's waste can be transported and disposed of
together with other urban waste, once they have been removed from the hospital premises.
* Wastes Types C and D, infectious waste and human body parts, require special transport and
treatment, which will be described further.
* Waste Type E, other hazardous waste, must be disposed of according to the regulations for
industrial hazardous waste.
Treatment of hospital waste means any method, technique or process designed to change the
biological character or composition if any regulated medical waste so as to reduce or eliminate its
potential for causing disease. Regarding the adequate sanitary disposal of health-care waste as a
treatment method, and by considering the specific needs and possibilities for Sierra Leone, only
two technical alternatives can be taken into consideration for waste Type C:
1.     Special incineration
2.     Controlled disposal in sanitary landfills
Controlled disposals in sanitary landfills have the following reported advantages
* It is a recognised and proven method of deposal of this waste category
* The technology is applicable to all infectious wastes and does not require pre-processing of
the waste.
* The control is easy and evident
* It is the most economic method.
However, current practices (open dumping) at the existing dumpsites (Freetown, Bo, and
Kenema) militate against this option for the time being.  Consequently, and taking into
consideration the dangers associated with health-care waste and in particular HV, HBV, and
HCV transmissions, the current practice of incineration without flue-gas cleaning should be
improved and promoted until the dumpsite are upgraded to sanitary landfills.
As outlined earlier, infectious hospital waste Type C can be buried at sanitary landfills, provided
the following precautions are taken:
* The hospital waste must be transported to an already filled-up area of the sanitary landfill.
This landfill, or at least the selected area, should be fenced in so that it will have restricted
access.
Page 54 of 60



*  The hospital waste has to be dumped directly from the truck into the pit without any handling
by labourers.
*  The same excavation material from the pit must cover it immediately, preferably.
*  The areas where infectious wastes have been buried must be marked and documented to
avoid re-opening by further disposal of hospital wastes.
Instruction and training of solid waste personnel, as described in this report, must also be
extended to the personnel working on the sanitary landfill.
11. Legal Requirements
Legislation
There is a lack of legislative framework, by-laws and guidelines for the management of hospital
wastes in Sierra Leone. The objective should be to set up a legal structure that will be maintained
and updated by a Ministry of Health and Sanitation legislation unit. By-laws or regulations on the
following themes should be laid won.
*  Precise definition of all terms to describe the management of hospital waste
*  Classification of hospital wastes
*   Internal management of solid waste in health care institutions
* External management of solid waste from health care institutions
*   Guidelines for the section of hospital solid waste-handling equipment and materials
*   Determination of responsibilities
*   Fines and penalties for non-compliance.
Control Institutions
Legislation alone is a useless instrument without an official organ to monitor compliance and the
power to enforce it by punishing non-compliance
Therefore, an effective control system of the hospital waste management must be established. As
described before, it can be organised on two levels.
1. Responsible self-control by a qualified member of their own staff for the executing institutions,
the hospitals for sanitary hospital-internal handling, and the Environmental Health Division for
the management outside the hospital. This should cover collection transportation, treatment and
disposal.
2. Official control by health inspectors of the ministry who should exercise control over
governmental, private and mission operated health care institutions and has the legal power to
caution and/or punish.
Page 55 of 60



Annex 8: The De Montfort Family of Medical Waste Incinerators
All the incinerators (displayed on the following page) are variations on the same basic design.
The Mark 1 incinerator is now used in many parts of the world. It bums up to 12kg/h of waste.
The Mark 2 is the Mark I with a larger secondary combustion chamber to increase the retention
time and improve the flue gas emission quality.
The Mark 3 is designed for hospitals up to 1000 beds, and bums at about 4 times the rate of
Marks 1 & 2. (50-kg/h approx.)
The Mark 4 is a version of the Mark I specifically designed for use in emergency situations
where low cost and a minimum of expensive materials and techniques are priorities. It contains
only two metal components, and uses firebricks only where these are absolutely necessary. It will
nevertheless attain very similar combustion temperatures as the others but the expected life is less
than I year.
The Mark 5 incinerator is thermodynamically the same as the Mark 3, but modified to carry the
weight of a much higher chimney for use where a high chimney is a legal requirement or where
the proximity of other buildings makes a high chimney necessary to disperse smoke and fumes.
Incinerator Mark 7 is the flat pack version for use in disaster or emergency situations and in
settings where necessary materials or skills are not available in the country or area.
The Mark 8 has the same throughput as the Mark 1, is as Mark 4 in terms of construction but is
designed for an extended life. The Mark 8 can also be built in those countries where firebricks are
not of uniform dimensions and cannot therefore be bound together.
For information and construction plans please contact Professor D.J Pickens:
The Innovative Technology Centre
26 Oaks Road
Great Glen
Leicester
LE8 9EG
E: djp@picken98.freeserve.co.uk or dipickengJ,iee.org.uk
Page 56 of 60



The De Montfort Family of Medical Waste Incinerators
Mark I           Mark.2 Mark 3                              Mark4 
(12kg/h)          (12kg/h)         (50kg/h)               (12 kg/h, 1-year
With              With Emission        life, minimum cost)
Emission          Reduction
Reduction         System
System
Mark 5                          Mark 7                      Mark 8
As Mark 3 but modified         (1 2 kg/h) Built from        As Mark 4 but for
for tall chimney               Pre-fabricated               extended life
______________________       Components for rapid
assembly
Page 57 of 60



Annex 9: HEALTHCARE WASTE MANAGEMENT TRAINING PLAN
Rationale for training in health-care waste management
The medical waste study (November, 2001) established a lack of awareness about risks associated
with unhygienic management of healthcare waste in Sierra Leone. Hence, the needs for a
national training plan.
Healthcare waste is special in that it has a higher potential of infection and injury than any other
type of waste. Therefore, it has to be handled with sound and safe methods wherever generated.
Inadequate handling of health-care waste may have serious public health consequences and
impact on the environment. Healthcare waste management is, therefore, an important and
necessary component of environmental health protection.
Hospitals and healthcare establishments have responsibilities and a "duty of care" for the
environment and public health, particularly in relation to the waste they produce. They also carry
a responsibility to ensure that there are no adverse health and environmental consequences as a
result of waste handling, treatment and disposal activities. Unfortunately, health-care waste
management is, in many regions, not yet carried out with a satisfactory degree of safety.
The proposed training programme aims at transmitting the basic skills for the development and
implementation of a healthcare waste management policy, including the components outlined in
this programme. In this way, healthcare facilities can take steps towards securing a healthy and
safe environment for their employees and communities.
The objectives of the training on HCW
1. To raise awareness on public health and environment hazards that may be associated with
inappropriate segregation, storage, collection, transport, handling, treatment and disposal
of health-care waste;
2. To provide information on hazards and sound management practices of health-care waste
for the formulation of policies and the development or improvement of legislation and
technical guidelines;
3. To identify waste management practices and technologies that are safe, efficient,
sustainable, economic and culturally acceptable; to enable the participants to identify the
systems suitable for their particular circumstances;
4. To enable managers of health-care establishments to develop their waste Management
plans;
5. To enable course participants to develop training programmes for the different categories
of staff that handle, treat or dispose of health-care waste.
At the end of the course the participants should be able to demonstrate individually that they have
achieved the course objectives and competence in health-care waste management.
Target groups for the course on HCW
Page 58 of 60



The course is targeted at managers, regulators and policy makers, which are involved in health-
Care waste management. The main professional categories are the following:
1. Officials from national or regional authorities involved with developing policies
2. In health-care waste management;
3. Environmental or health and safety regulators;
4. Environmental health professionals;
5. Hospital managers and other administrators of health-care establishments;
6. Representatives of local authorities;
7. Waste collection, treatment and disposal managers;
8. Manufacturers of medical devices, chemicals and pharmaceutical
Page 59 of 60



