Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24217-SL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.1 MILLION (US$ 20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
FOR A
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 22, 2003
Human Development II
Country Department 10
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 21, 2003)
Currency Unit = Leones (Le)
Le 2,089.17 = US$1.00
US$1.00 = Le 0.00047866
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                              African Development Bank
APL                               Adaptable Program Lending
CDC                               Center for Disease Control and Prevention
CPR                               Country Procurement Review
CPAR                              Country Procurement Assessment Report
CTB                               Central Tender Board
DHS                               Demographic and Health Survey
DOTS                              Direct Observed Treatment Short-course (TB)
EU                                European Union
FMR                               Financial Management Report
GDP                               Gross Domestic Product
GIMPA                             Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration
GOSL                              Govemment of Sierra Leone
GPN                               General Procurement Notice
HRD                               Human Resources Development
HSRDP                             Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project
IBRD                              Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                               Intemational Development Association
IEC                               Information, Education and Communication
IFC                               International Finance Corporation
IHSIP                            Integrated Health Sector Investment Project
MICS-2                            Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey-2
MOHS                              Ministry of Health and Sanitation
NHAP                              National Health Action Plan
PCU                               Project Coordination Unit
PHC                               Primary Health Care
PHU                               Primary Health Units
PMR                               Project Monitoring Report
RBM                               Roll Back Malaria
SAPA                              Social Action and Poverty Alleviation
SBCQ                              Selection Based on Consultanfs Qualification
SIL                               Specific Investment Loan
TSS                               Transitional Support Strategy
TB                                Tuberculosis
UNICEF                            United Nations Children's Fund
UNFPA                             United Nations Fund for Population Activities
WHO                               World Health Organization
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo
Country Director:       Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager:       Alexandre Abrantes
Task Team Leader:        Astrid Helgeland-Lawson



SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    14
3. Benefits and target population                                                   14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         18
2. Financial                                                                        20
3. Technical                                                                        20
4. Institutional                                                                    21
5. Environmental                                                                    22
6. Social                                                                           23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               25
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   25
2. Critical risks                                                                   26



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   27
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         27
2. Other                                                                            27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 35
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      42
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        43
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  49
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    50
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  65
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                67
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               68
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         69
MAP(S)
IBRD 32088



SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH2
Date: January 22, 2003                            Team Leader: Astrid Helgeland-Lawson
Sector Manager/Director: Alexandre V. Abrantes    Sector(s): Health (100%)
Country Manager/Director: Mats Karlsson           Theme(s): Health system performance (P), Fighting
Project EID: P074128                              communicable diseases (P), Conflict prevention and
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  post-conflict reconstruction (P), Civic engagement,
participation and community driven development (S)
[] Loan     [] Credit    [X] Grant     [] Guarantee     [] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $20.00
FlaiiigPian(U$   $m 'P    Source      .-                . . nLocal -iForeign( -  .-'    - Total 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                              1.00           0.00          1.00
IDA GRANT FOR POST-CONFLICT                                    14.15           5.85         20.00
Total:                                                         15.15           5.85         21.00
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SANITATION
Address: Ministry of Health and Sanitation, 4th Floor, Youyi Building, Freetown, Sierra Leone
Contact Person: Dr. Noah Conteh, Director General of Medical Services
Dr. Clifford Kamara, Director of Planning, Information and Statistics
Tel: (232) 22242119/22240068           Fax: (232) 22241527           Email: cwkamara@sierratel.sl
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
'i F.Y.      '2(:.3y ,-     0         2,;5'-                007      -2008 '
Annual      2.00       5.53      5.60       5.12       1.40      0.35
Cumulative     2.00       7.53      13.13     18.25      19.65      20.00
Project implementation period: January 2003 - December 2007
Expected effectiveness date: 05/01/2003 Expected closing date: 02/28/2008
OCS PAD F P_ R..h 0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's overall development objective is to help restore the most essential functions of the health
delivery system. The project will also help achieve the more specific objectives of:
(a) Increasing access to affordable essential health services by improving primary and first referral
health facilities in four districts of the country.
(b) Improving the performance of key technical programs responsible for coping with the country's
major public health problems.
(c) Strengthening health sector management capacity to improve efficiency and further decentralize
decision-making to the districts.
(d) Supporting development of the private NGO health sector and involvement of the civil society in
decision-making.
The first specific objective is limited in scope to the four districts which met specific selection criteria
(such as importance to the demobilization, resettlement and peace processes; magnitude of the public
health problems; clear need to rehabilitate the delivery of services, etc.). Within these four districts, the
project focuses on the rehabilitation of priority health facilities, and on support for the delivery of
affordable and good quality care.
Through its second specific objective, the project will contribute to reducing the burden of some of the
most important infectious diseases country-wide (i.e., by supporting Malaria and TB control activities,
and the Sanitation program).
The third specific objective aims to improve efficiency and make the health sector more responsive to the
needs of the population by supporting eligible district health teams country-wide (13 in total) and five
key services of the MOHS (i.e., Human Resources Development; Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation;
Financial Management; Procurement; and Donor and NGO coordination).
The fourth specific objective will improve the quality of services by (i) promoting development and
regulation of the private NGO sector, strengthening the quality of care and enhancing the contribution of
the private sector to the achievement of public health objectives, (ii) providing incentives to the health
providers to establish practices in rural areas and smaller cities, (iii) contracting out clinical and
non-clinical services with the private sector, and by (iv) involving the civil society in decision making in
the health administration and in health facilities.
While the project must initially focus on the restoration of health service delivery, it will provide
increasing support to the reform process in the health sector (including to cost-recovery and to the set up
of mechanisms to protect the access to services of the poorest population).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Because of the scarcity of reliable baseline information on sector performance and health outcomes, the
project's key performance indicators will be based on input, process and performance indicators such as:
(a) health sector budget allocations and actual expenditures, i.e., recurrent (salaries and wages, and
non-salary) and investment allocations and expenditures;
(b) public expenditures for primary, secondary and tertiary services;
- 2 -



(c) progress in increasing the numbers of health providers with emphasis on medical, nursing and
midwifery health personnel;
(d) progress in rehabilitating and equipping health facilities (overall and in the four participating
district);
(e) immunization coverage (the percentage of children aged 12 to 23 months immunized against
diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus) in the four distncts assisted by the project. This indicator is
expected to increase from 46% in the year 2000 to 60% in the year 2005 and to 65% by the year
2007;
(f) the regular use of insecticide-treated bed nets by children under five years of age. This indicator
is expected to increase from 1.5% in the year 2000 to 20% in the year 2005 and to 40% by the year
2007;
(g) the contraceptive prevalence rate (the percentage of married or in union women aged 15 to 49
years using a modem or traditional contraceptive method) in the four districts assisted by the project.
The CPR is expected to increase, country-wide, from 3.9% in 2000 to 8% in 2005 and to 10% in
2007, and;
(h) the percentage of deliveries assisted by a doctor, nurse or midwife in the four distncts assisted by
the project. This indicator is expected to increase, country-wide, from 42% in the year 2000 to 55%
in the year 2005 and to 60% by the year 2007.
* The source of base-line data on the output indicators (e to h) quoted above is the Government of
Sierra Leone (GOSL) Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey 2 (MICS-2) published in November 2000
under the title "Survey Report on the Status of women and Children in Sierra Leone" (see also the
table presented in section B 2 below). The data of this survey also include some outcome indicators
but the respective data are affected by important size and sampling techniques limitations. Because
of these limitations and of the unavailability of DHS data, no outcome indicators were included
among the project key performance indicators. If, at a later stage, data on outcome indicators
become available, the list of key performance indicators will be amended accordingly.
*   Additional indicators are to be found in Annex 1.
*   Data on the indicators for the four districts assisted by the project were not available at the date of
the PAD preparation. They will be collected dunng the annual sector review and operational
planning exercise for the year 2003. Countrywide data from the MICSII survey will also be used as a
proxy.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 21332     Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/26/2002
A Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) for 2002-2003 was developed. The TSS presents the Bank's
business plan to support the implementation of the Sierra Leone Government's Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy (I-PRSP) which was launched on September 2001. The main objective of the TSS is
to support the transition from post-conflict reconstruction to sustainable poverty reduction. In the
transitional phase, the focus of the TSS is on: (i) consolidating peace, (ii) resettlement and
reconstruction, (iii) improving govemnance, and (iv) maintaining a macroeconomic framework conducive
to economic recovery.  In the medium-term, Government will increasingly address longer-term
development issues to be elaborated in the full PRSP. The provision of health services in rural and
underserved areas is one pnority of the TSS, and a means to help mitigate the risk of renewed conflict
and lay the foundation for sustained poverty reduction.
The Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project is one of the lending activities proposed in
- 3 -



the TSS for FY03. The proposed project is aligned with the goals of the TSS as priority for rehabilitation
of health facilities is given to war-tom and underserved areas. The key objectives of this project would
encompass: (a) increasing access to affordable essential health services by improving primary and first
referral health facilities in four districts of the country; improving the performance of key technical
programs responsible for coping with the country's major public health problems; strengthening health
sector management capacity to improve efficiency and further decentralize decision-making to the
districts; and supporting development of the pnvate health sector and involvement of the civil society in
decision-making. As reestablishing the provision of services is crucial in returning to normalcy, the
project has important contributions towards the consolidation of peace and it is fully consistent with the
TSS.
Regarding the high potential for conflict in the Mano River Basin, the TSS presents three transitional
scenarios. Under the first, provided that a satisfactory transition to peace occurs, the Bank would prepare
a CAS in about two years (this is considered the most likely scenario given recent progress in Sierra
Leone). However, under a second scenario, that would apply should there be significant slippage in the
peace process, the program outlined in the TSS will continue provided that progress is being made in
reducing poverty. The HSRDP will be implemented,as described in the PAD under either of these
scenarios with a possible modification of the districts to receive assistance as accessibility to districts and
specific health needs might change. Under the third scenario, the Bank would (i) in case of conflict
spreading to large areas of the country, suspend the preparation of new operations, conducting only
limited portfolio implementation; and, (ii) should such conflict persist and spread county-wide, suspend
all operations and prepare a Watching Brief. If conditions in the country so deteriorate as to make it
necessary to apply this last scenario, HSRDP will need some adjustments (similar to the ones used during
the implementation to the IHSIP project that allowed the Bank to provide valuable support to the
population of the country in 1999-2000 when the armed conflict worsened). Nonetheless, in the case of
renewed conflict country-wide and a severe deterioration of the security situation, HSRDP will be
suspended as all the other Bank operations.
For FY03, Sierra Leone was allocated grants of SDR 30.2 million (US$40.0 million equivalent), and this
amount will be applied toward the financing of the Health Sector Reconstruction and Development
Project and the Rehabilitation of Basic Education Project. These particular projects were selected for
grant financing because of (i) their importance in the Bank's program in Sierra Leone, (ii) these projects'
strong development impacts, and (iii) the Government's particular interest in grant financing of the health
and education sectors as support to these sectors would be strengthened by the grant financing.
O   Health Sector in the Sierra Leone TSS. The provision of health services in rural and underserved
areas is identified as a priority in the TSS, and a means to help mitigate the risk of renewed conflict.
and lay foundation for sustained poverty reduction.
o   Strong development impacts. This particular operation is very timely and responds to the most
urgent health needs of the population during a critical period of time and will contribute to
the strengthening of the public and private health sector.
o Government preferences. The Government has expressed particular interest in grant financing for
the health sector as they see it as a means to draw greater and broader support for these programs.
In addition to these specific reasons for applying grant financing in this operation, the operation
advances the Bank's preference in the IDA13 Grant Guidelines that "While grant use will be
guided by PRSP and CAS/TSS priorities, investments in education, health and clean water are
generally expected to be an important component of grant use."
-4 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
At the end of a decade of war, political and social instability, and detenoration of the economic
performance of an otherwise well-endowed country, the health sector in Sierra Leone is facing many
issues.
a) The health status of the population is, compared with other SSA countries, critical; it is estimated
that life expectancy at birth is only 43 years, and infant, under-five and maternal mortality rates are as
high as 170, 286 and 18 per 1000 live births respectively. The country is plagued by diseases for which
cost-effective interventions are available but are not being used due to: (i) problems with resources of all
kinds (financial, infrastructure and especially human resources); (ii) weak sector capacity, and; (iii)
limited access to some geographical areas because of the security situation (until very recently), poor
roads and inadequate communications. Among these diseases are malaria, tuberculosis, leprosy, acute
respiratory diseases, diarrhea, Lassa fever, onchocerciasis, and cholera and other water bome diseases.
Also, compared with neighboring countries, the HIV/AIDS epidemic is more significant; the prevalence
rate of HIV sero-positivity is now estimated at about 4.9% (the CDC Atlanta base line survey of 2002)
and may be higher in some groups. As a result of war atrocities, the country was left with thousands of
amputees; a huge number of psychologically affected people (mostly women among whom many were
raped and/or lost their children and families; and children who are orphaned or living away from their
parents. Fertility rates are also high as a result of insufficient use of contraception, particularly in rural
areas. Lastly, malnutrition is widely spread among children and lactating mothers and contnbutes
significantly to the high mortality rates cited above.
b) The health delivery system is operating poorly. Durng the conflict, the country is estimated to have
lost more than 50% of health facilities and the remaining facilities need rehabilitating, re-equipping, new
staff, and technical and financial support. While the recent conflict exacerbated the situation by
destroying health facilities and displacing (or worse) staff, the public health sector has not performed
well for more than a decade; with inadequate financing, MOHS could not supervise and support
technically the public health facilities country-wide. Further, the destruction of the infrastructure of
other sectors affected, and continues to affect, the health sector's operations since communications,
transport, electricity, water supply, etc., were also severely disrupted.
Many international and local NGOs specialized in providing health care during conflict and in
post-conflict situations have successfully delivered services to the districts in which the public health
facilities were not able to operate. In addition, NGOs are contributing substantially to alleviating
psychological suffering and providing physical rehabilitation to amputees. As a result of the progress in
peace negotiations and increased security, these NGOs are now in the process of phasing out their aid
programs. Other NGOs (and particularly the religious NGOs), which had previously played an important
role in the delivery of health care in rural areas, suffered severe damage in the war (of 47 mission
facilities in operation before the 1997 coup, only 20 are currently functioning), the mission hospitals
have lost their expatriate medical staff, and the current free drug policy (applied in some government
facilities and by the large international NGOs) is drawing patients away from their clinics which continue
to use cost recovery (and to also successfully exempt the poor from it).
The private for profit health system, although recently developing, remains weak and limited to the
Western Region and the capital city.
This makes restoration of a functioning health sector a crucial priority for the country. At present the
most important challenges for the public health sector are to find solutions for:
- 5 -



(a) the lack of infrastructure, especially in the distncts most affected by war;
(b) the limited administrative capacity of the public sector and its persistent inefficiencies;
(c) the lack of human resources (resulting from (i) staff attrition, (ii) inadequate training
(undergraduate, postgraduate and continuous on the job training), (iii) emigration of medical
doctors (in particular, of specialized physicians) to developed countries; (iv) distorted
geographical distribution of health workers (during the war the health providers left the unsafe
zones and came to work in Freetown); and the lack of skill and motivation of the remaining
health personnel, and;
(d) the lack of capacity of the private for profit health sector and its inability (or unwillingness)
to address major public health problems.
Health Status Indicators
Source of data: MIv4CS 2 Survey 2000
Indicators                                 Latest estimated value
Infant mortality rate                       170 per 1000 live births
Under-five mortality rate                  286 per 1000 live births
Maternal mortality rate                     1800 per 100,000 live births
Underweight prevalence in children under 5 years 27.2%
of age
Stunting prevalence in children under 5 years of 33.9%
age
Wasting prevalence in children under 5 years of 9.8%
age
Population with access to safe drinking water  54.0%
Population with access to safe excreta disposal 63.1%
means
Antenatal care                              68.0% of pregnant women received at least one
consultation
Deliveries attended by skilled personnel    41.7%
Contraceptive   prevalence   rate  (modem 3.9%
contraception)
Births weight below 2.5 Kg                  52.5%
Iodized salt consumption                    23.4% of households
Children receiving vitamin A supplementation  58.2%
Mothers receiving vitamin A supplementation  32.6%
Breast feeding (exclusive of other foods) of 2.4%
children under 4 months of age
Complementary feeding of children aged 4 to 9 52.5% of children 4-9 months old are receiving
months                                     breast milk and complementary food
Inmmunization rates in children 12 to 23 months of DPT 45.5%; measles: 61.7%; TB: 61,2% and
age                                        polio:72.8%
Neonatal tetanus immunization of pregnant women 57.7%
Use of Oral Rehidration Therapy             86.1%
Acute respiratory infections treated       50.2%
Impregnated bednets used by children under 5 1.5%
years of age
Malaria treatment in children under 5 years of age  60.9%
- 6 -



Knowledge   on   HIV/AIDS    prevention  and 21.1% and 19.0%
|misconceptions                              I                                            I
Data quality is affected by sample size and sampling techniques limutations. For instance regarding the matemal mortality the
MICS-2 can only say that, with 95% probability, the MMR is not smaller than 1000 and not bigger than 2600 maternal deaths
per 100,000 live births. More accurate data will only be available later on with: (i) the opportunity of a DHS (scheduled for
2003) and of specialized surveys (such as the HIV sero-positivity survey scheduled for 2002) and, gradually, (ii) the resuming of
the health facility data collection and reporting system
c) The health sector's capacity to manage health service delivery was considerably weakened, and the
decentralization of decision-making halted in recent years. During the period 1993-1996, the MOHS
prepared a comprehensive sector reform and service delivery program, which was outlined in documents
such as the 1993 National Health Policy, the 1994 National Health Action Plan (NHAP) and the 1995
NHAP Core program. At the time, GOSL (using performance indicators and qualitative information)
ranked health as the best performing public sector of the country; in more recent years, MOHS'
performance has also been ranked very high. Recognizing these efforts, the World Bank agreed to
develop a project to support the sector-wide program of the GOSL, the Integrated Health Sector
Investment Project; credit 2827-SL. Unfortunately, the rebel conflict (which worsened in 1996 and
sporadically thereafter) halted the reforms and re-focused MOHS's work on solving problems stemrmng
from instability, loss of resources, an increasing number of displaced persons and refugees, and a marked
deterioration of the health status of the population. Although sector performance was greatly reduced by
problems with financial resources, decrease of staff and looting of premises, the most affected parts of
the system were, without doubt, the district health teams and the decentralization process.
IHSIP was restructured to provide the financing of activities in response to the new situation in the
country, and remarkably permitted MOHS to continue functioning during all these years of war. To a
large extent this was possible due to the dedication of the national staff and was facilitated by the
assistance received from the IDA credit to the sector. Other organizations, such as UNICEF and WHO,
have also succeeded in mobilizing extra budgetary resources and have provided valuable assistance.
Over the past several years, sector capacity has gradually been re-established. In August 1999 the sector
was able to resume the annual review and planning meeting with donors and NGOs, and launched the
national immunization days. District health personnel, among which many have functioned mostly due
to the support from international NGOs, attended these meetings. A decision was taken to increase the
support to districts from the public budget and donors and, in addition, to also make available funds from
the current IDA credit. In November 2000 the annual program review and planning meeting for the year
2001 was held with an even more active participation of NGOs, donors and district staff. Continuing this
positive trend, at the beginning of the year 2001, the health districts meeting the criteria for satisfactory
financial management and accounting practices received funding for their most urgent needs, conducting
supervision or training from the current IDA project. During the same year the AfDB declared effective
its credit and, in 2002, EU has intensified project preparation activities aiming at providing support to the
health sector by early 2003.
Government Strategy: In the past years (1993-1995) the MOHS strategy was: (a) to rehabilitate health
facilities using resources pledged by donors, and; (b) to further develop and reform the sector by means
of a sector-wide program (i.e., the NHAP Core program) financed by the GOSL and by MOHS's
traditional partners (such as WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA, Saudi Fund for Development, the Islamic
Development Bank, the European Union, AfDB and IDA). During this period the Government's overall
goals were to 'improve social conditions and alleviate poverty along with sustained economic growth."
In the health sector, the sector policy was translated into a five-year sector-wide program (NHAP)
onginally estimated at about US$270 million but downsized to US$138 million (NHAP Core program)
after a more realistic analysis of the sector's financing capacity and absorption limitations. The main
-7 -



thrusts of the NHAP were to develop a sound health delivery system and to staff it adequately, promote
environmental health and communicable disease control, foster community participation, decentralize
services at district level, improve sector financing; privatize certain services and enhance international
collaboration. To this sector-wide program, IDA contributed US$20 million through the Integrated
Health Sector Investment Project, which was one of the first sector-wide operations in the Region.
Starting in 1996, when the war and insecurity worsened, the MOHS aimed to provide expanded health
services to the increasingly large populations in safe areas (basically the Western Region) with reduced
financial and material resource. Through 1999 the sector operated on the basis of Quarterly Emergency
Plans, until the regular mechanism (set up in 1995) of reviewing sector performance and planning for the
following fiscal year was reinstated. This participatory planning process continued and was improved
during the October 2000 and 2001 planning sessions and in particular in 2002.
GOSL, taking into account the progress in peace negotiations and the overall improvement of the security
situation is currently updating the health sector policy. The new policy is two pronged and aims at: (i)
re-establishing the provision of health services, and (ii) gradually strengthening the sector capacity to
deliver services by decentralizing decision making, re-instating cost-recovery (in a manner that will
preserve the affordability of drugs and services by the poor), and by improving sector management to
obtain efficiency gains. The implementation of this new policy would be supported by the proposed IDA
grant.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
a) Sector issues and choices. The proposed project will address the range of issues faced by the sector
during the post conflict period, comprising both the restoration of the health delivery system and the
strengthening of public and private health sector capacity. Nonetheless, within these major issues the
project will target very specifically a few priority geographical and public health areas of concern. For
instance, through the first project component (Restoring essential health services) the project will support
four priority districts (Bombali, Koinadugu, Kono, Moyamba). Likewise, the project's first component
will provide support to three priority technical programs (i.e., Malaria, TB, and Sanitation) while the
project's second component (Strengthening Public and Private Sector Capacity) will support five key
support programs of the MOHS (i.e., Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, Financial Management,
Procurement, Donor & NGO Coordination and Human Resources Development). These choices were
based on criteria such as health needs, timeliness of the interventions, cost-effectiveness, and a potential
positive impact of health interventions on stability and resettlement of the population of certain districts.
Some other important considerations were: (i) the size of the financial gap in some areas or, conversely,
the support from another donor (such as WHO and UNICEF in safe motherhood, immunizations and
nutrition; EU and ADB in drug procurement, stock management and distribution); (ii) the potential for
raising grants for activities such as Onchocerciasis and HIV/AIDS; and (iii) a preoccupation with keeping
the project relatively simple and doable.
Other choices considered were:
(a) the development of a project to exclusively support the private or the public health sector (the
preferred option was a project supporting both public and private health providers and the
contracting out of public health services with private providers),
(b) the design of a project to provide support using a social fund mechanism versus a project funding
the public sector and executed by MOHS (the preferred option was not to duplicate the current social
funds projects, which include also Bank financed projects, but to support these projects by
equipping, providing drugs, vaccines, consumables and technical support to the health facilities built
with social fund assistance),
(c) the design of the new project using all the sector-wide features of the rather successful current
- 8 -



Integrated Health Sector Investment Project (IHSIP). This option was carefully analyzed and, as a
result, the most beneficial features of the IHSIP have been incorporated into the HSRDP design (such
as the annual review, planning and budgeting exercise, the emphasis on decentralization, etc.).
However, considerng the need to simplify the project design, to better target the priority areas of
concem, and to be able to more accurately evaluate outputs and outcomes, the HSRDP was designed
as a sector investment operation (with some innovative features).
These choices led to the proposed project design which includes two components and to the lending
instrument described below.
Section D on "Rationale" and "Project alternatives and reasons for rejection" provide complementary
information to this section.
(b) The lending instrument: As mentioned, the current IDA project (IHSIP) was one of the first
sector-wide programs in the Africa Region. The preparation and implementation of this project have
shown that this approach had great advantages for continuously adapting the project to changes in the
sector, made donor contributions more purposeful and strengthened the MOHS's capacity to deal with
multiple partners. At the same time, there were also drawbacks, in that the Bank, as the donor of last
resort, was often called on to: (i) fund recurrent expenditures while important investments were chosen
with priority by other donors such as AfDB and EU; and (ni) finance (however thinly) all programs and
could not concentrate on the most essential and more cost effective activities. As a result, the impact on
the health status of both the national sector-wide program and, in particular, of the IDA project proved
impossible to measure accurately.
The relevance of an APL (Adaptable Program Lending) was also discussed. It was felt that such a
lending instrument would be appropnate, but not before the situation in the country becomes stable
enough to allow the development of a sector policy covering a period of 10 years or more and not before
the sector capacity, including the health management information system, was strengthened to make
possible the monitoring of indicators on sector performance and outcomes.
Based on these considerations an investment operation is being proposed (SIL). Nonetheless, some
features of the current sector-wide program have been retained. For instance:
(a) To allocate the resources to activities for the benefit of three of the MOHS priority programs
(Malaria, TB and Sanitation) and five MOHS key departments (Planning and Monitoring, Human
Resources Development, Financial Management, Procurement, and Donor & NGO Coordination), and
major investments in rehabilitation of infrastructure and equipment of the four districts selected to
receive IDA support, but also to verify annually the relevance of these allocations through the Annual
Review and Operational Planning process (initiated since the launch of the current sector-wide operation)
and, if necessary, make further adjustments, and;
(b) To implement the project through the MOHS and without the help of a separate project unit (all these
features are shared with the current sector-wide project).
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component 1: Restoring Essential Health Services.
This component will: (a) provide assistance to four priority districts to deliver adequate health services
-9-



and (b) support three priority technical programs to improve their performance and control infectious
diseases of high public health importance in Sierra Leone (i.e., Malaria, TB and Sanitation).
1.1 Restoring health service delivery in four priority districts (Bombali, Koinadugu, Kono,
Moyamba). The project will finance equipment, drugs, vaccines, furniture, training and supervision
needed for the adequate functioning of 50 health posts built with support from the IDA funded
Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project and from other social fund projects. The project
will also finance civil works, equipment, rehabilitation and upgrading of water distribution and medical
waste disposal systems, essential staff quarters, training, communication means and ambulances for 12
health centers and four first referral hospitals. Finally, it will provide support to ensure the delivery of
adequate health care and to solve health provider shortages and other human resources issues in the
participating districts. Particular attention will be paid to health facility waste management and to related
EEC activities for health providers. As all these activities will be carried out at existing and operating
health facilities (and in addition, for the hospitals within the hospital compound) this sub-component will
therefore not necessitate land acquisition and will not cause any resettlement of the population or
removal of squatters.
It is worth mentioning that while maintenance and drug availability (procurement, stock management and
distribution) will be strengthened at the central level with the support of other MOHS's partners (AfDB
and EU), IDA will contribute in a concrete manner in the four participating districts, by funding drugs,
condoms and other contraceptives, consumables, vaccines, micronutrients and food supplements, spare
parts and other non-salary recurrent expenditures. IDA will also rehabilitate and equip district drug
stores and train the respective personnel. Likewise, IDA support at central level (see the second
sub-component) will only target some key technical and support programs (and not all of them, as several
have already obtained assistance from other donors). However, in the four participating districts, IDA
will support, to the extent needed, the delivery of all essential preventive and curative care, thus being
able to contribute to the improvement and expansion of all major public health programs. For instance,
because the Reproductive Health Program, including Safe Motherhood and Family Planning, Nutrition
and Expanded Program of Immunization are already being supported by VWHO, UNICEF, UNFPA and
several bilaterals, these programs were not included among the technical programs to receive IDA
assistance at central level. However, if and when needed, IDA will support such activities in the four
participating districts.
1.2 Support to priority technical programs.
The project will provide support to improve the performance of the following programs important for the
reduction of three priority public health problems in Sierra Leone:
(i) Malaria control activities consistent with the RBM strategy and focusing on the strengthening of case
management capacity in public and nongovernmental facilities, the promotion and distribution of
insecticide-treated bed nets (to be distributed and re-treated with local NGO support), and strengthening
the capacity for monitoring and supervision;
(ii) TB control activities will include establishing/strengthening diagnostic laboratory capacity, training
of health workers in case detection and appropriate treatment, and logistic support for the implementation
of the DOTS strategy;
(iii) Sanitation and environmental impact mitigation measures in the four districts supported by the
project. Regarding sanitation, a program of importance for all infectious disease control programs and
for prevention in general, the project will support activities to be contracted out with private providers
and advocacy for involving the municipalities in the four districts and communes in waste management
(thus redefining the task of the MOHS from a provider of services to contract management and
environmental monitoring; the ultimate objective of this program will be to transfer sanitation
- 1 0 -



responsibilities to municipalities and communes). Regarding environmental impact mitigation the
project will finance (a) medical waste management measures in the 12 health centers and, in particular, in
the four district hospitals to be rehabilitated (incinerators, lined pits, latrines, including support for their
maintenance and functioning, training of relevant staff and of health providers), (b) TA for an adequate
identification and development of dump sites (which will also include liquid waste disposal) of the four
district capital cities, (c) transportation means for solid waste and (d) supervision and monitoring by
environmental inspectors of the district health teams of the four districts. The SHARP project will also
support environmental impact mitigation in the four districts by financing, among others, training of
health providers in medical waste issues and management.
All other priority technical programs of the MOHS will also be supported, to the extent needed, through
HSRDP assistance to the four priority districts (mentioned above under the sub-component 1.1).
Component 2: Strengthening Public and Private Sector Capacity.
Under this component the HSRDP will support: (a) in all the districts of the country, the decentralization
process by strengthening the District Health Management Teams (DHMT), improving the decision
making process, and enhancing capacity for appropriate planning, management, financial management
and supervision; (b) essential sector management functions carried out by five key MOHS units (i.e.,
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, Financial Management, Procurement, Donor & NGO Coordination
and Human Resources Development) to improve efficiency and improve the administrative performance
at the central level and at the periphery; and (c) initiatives to promote private sector and civil society
participation in the health sector and to develop mechanisms to increase the efficiency, ensure the equity,
and improve the quality of services provided.
2.1 Promote decentralization and improve the performance of District Health Management Teams.
To support the reforms (currently underway) to decentralize budget management, the project would
finance training of district level financial officers and financial support to district operating costs to the
qualifying districts (i.e., those meeting the criteria for adequate financial management). HSRDP funding
will be channeled following an already existing mechanism for funding of operating expenditures in the
districts established by the IHSIP (i.e., the districts meeting criteria of sound financial management are
eligible, the funds ought to be used for unplanned activities for which the public budget is not sufficient
such as supervision, emergency operations in case of infectious disease out-breaks, etc.). A total of
US$0.4 million will be spent for the entire duration of the project for this type of funding, this
sub-component is expected to greatly assist DHMT to make their own decisions and manage in a
hands-on manner problems unforeseen at the planning stage.
2.2 Strengthen the key MOHS support services, i.e., Human resources development (HRD),
Planning, monitoring and statistics, Financial management, Procurement and Donor/NGO
coordination. The Project would provide ongoing support for the improvement of staff skill and
performance, and for the implementation of activities of selected key support services of the MOHS.
These key support services have been selected on the basis of their importance to improving sector
efficiency, insufficient funding from other sources, and the Borrower's intention to implement the project
using MOHS's capacity (and not with a PCU).
Planning, monitoring and statistics. The Project would provide operational support to meet the
department's needs in equipment, transport, communications, training and technical assistance, and
specific support to: (a) revise and disseminate the national health policy; (b) reinforce the medium-term
planning and operational planning exercises as well as the annual sector review; and (c) strengthen both
routine health information management and periodic surveys and research. With support from a PHRD
-11 -



grant, MOHS has revised the 1993 National Health Policy and adapted it to the current health status of
the population and the situation in the sector. HSRDP will finance the dissemination and public
discussion of the final updated policy. The planning process would be strengthened by: (i) improving the
Planning Department's ability to collect and analyze information on health sector expenditures; (n)
revising the planning guidelines to institute a Three-year Rolling Plan and improve the Annual
Operational Planning; and (iii) improving the planning capabilities of the District Health Management
Teams and would continue to support the organization of the annual sector review. The project would
also provide financial support for (i) the improvement of health information systems at central and
district-levels; (ii) vital registration, and; (c) the execution of selected surveys and operational research to
be determined annually.
Donor/NGO Coordination. Within the framework of MOHS's intention to develop a new NGO policy
with procedures and guidelines for effectively coordinating and monitoring the activities of NGOs, the
HSRDP would finance TA, as well as equipment and modest operating costs. The project would also
support current work to involve and coordinate donors, technical agencies, financing institutions and
international and national NGOs and to expand their participation in the decision-making, among others,
capitalizing on the opportunity of annual sector review and planning exercises. In addition, the project
would finance periodic meetings between MOHS and its partners as well as the collection and
publication of the annual inventory of donor and NGO interventions in the health sector.
Human Resources Development. The HSRDP would support a series of actions to strengthen human
resource management and reduce the shortage of health service providers. These actions will be closely
coordinated with and complementary to ongoing efforts by WHO and AfDB and particularly by the
proposed EU-financed Health Sector Support Project. Specifically, the project would strengthen the
overall capacity of the Human Resource Department to implement the Government's Public Service
Reform Program, focusing specifically on providing technical and financial support for: (i) personnel
management through improved personnel record keeping and (ii) manpower planning through
formulation (and subsequent updating) and implementation of a comprehensive manpower development
plan. HRSDP will also provide support for strengthening training institutions, introducing specialized or
in-service training courses, or other activities as appropriate.
Finance. The HSRDP would provide TA and overall operational support for the Finance Department to
improve its performance, carry out its tasks related to the FM of the IDA project and effect improvements
in financial management and control. In addition, the Department will receive assistance to computerize
financial management operations; complete installation of a system acceptable to the Bank, and train
staff.
Procurement. To enhance the capabilities of the Procurement Unit of MOHS, the project would: (a)
strengthen existing systems and procedures for procurement planning and implementation; and (b) extend
these methods for use in carrying out procurement with GOSL funds. To ensure the continued
development of the Procurement Unit of MOHS, the project would finance TA (procurement and
architect) and would support additional short-term training and improved working conditions for existing
staff (i.e., furniture, equipment and operating costs).
2.3 Promote development of the private sector and civil society participation in the health sector.
The project would support initiatives in the following areas of particular importance to the MOHS:
Public sector/Private sector consultation and development of regulation to foster quality and
participation.  The project would finance consultations with the private Medical, Dental and
- 12 -



Pharmaceutical Associations and meetings with the Traditional Medicine Association to discuss ways for
strengthening collaboration and registration and accreditation practices (and other measures to improve
quality). Further to these consultations the project will support the issuance of regulation to promote
quality of services, control tariffs and encourage the development of private health services and the
involvement of pnvate providers in the solving of public health issues.
Contracting out. Contracting out of clinical and non-clinical services with the private sector is already
envisaged by HSRDP in areas such as impregnated bed-nets, IEC services, and solid-waste collection by
comnmunities. Substantial financial support to contract out services has also been foreseen under the
HSRDP Component 1, but additional support could be made available in case of insufficient funding.
The project would also finance a study on contracting out other selected public services (clinical or
non-clinical), including drug procurement and distnbution, laboratory services, and laundry.
Incentives for private providers of health services. Given the importance of attracting the return of
religious and other NGOs to develop and discharge hospital services and equitable cost recovery
arrangements (i.e., protecting the access to services of the poor individuals) in the under-served
geographical areas, the project would finance specific incentives, which might include the provision of a
drug stock to cover the needs of the respective facility for one year.
Support to the District Health Development Committees. To encourage the establishment and
functioning of committees (at district and health facility levels) for involving the population, political and
religious leaders and, more generally, the civil society in the decision making on health matters, the
HSRDP would provide financial resources for their operations. While the emphasis would be on the four
IDA-financed districts, the project would provide support to the PHC program of the MOHS to finance
similar activities in the remaining districts. These efforts to increase the involvement of the users of
services and the civil society in the decisions made in the health sector will be synchronized with MOHS
work to regulate cost-recovery and will include mechanisms to protect vulnerable populations. HSRDP
would finance: (a) a feasibility study (to be carried out with consultant assistance and with the
participation of MOHS and district staff) of approaches for establishing local financing mechanisms; (b)
testing and consensus-building concerning these possible approaches (either by MOHS or through an
NGO partner); and (c) preparation of the guidelines to establish such a system. An equity fund to pay for
the delivery of services for the benefit of the poor population in one of the facilities rehabilitated with
HSRDP support will be tested. The project will also consider, at the time of the mid-term review,
establishing two prepayment arrangements on an experimental basis to finance health care for the
population of one small urban and one rural community and test their feasibility (in economic terms and
from an equity perspective).
- 13 -



Indicative    . .     Bank-     A of
-Cornponi         ''            Costs - -  6, of   financiing  -'Barik- -
. -,             i.                      :        ~ -  - -(US$Mj)......  T.oS:6  -  (US$M)  -:financlng
Restoring Essential Health Services                 15.02      71.5     14.24      71.2
Restonng health service delivery in priority districts        0.0                 0.0
Support to priority technical programs                        0.0                 0.0
Strengthening Public and Private Sector Capacity     5.98      28.5      5.76      28.8
Promote decentralization and improve performance of           0.0                 0.0
DHMT
Strengthen the key MOHS support services                      0.0                 0.0
Promote development of the private sector and civil           0.0                 0.0
society participation in the health sector
Total Project Costs  21.00   100.0     20.00     100.0
Total Financing Required   21.00     100.0     20.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The MOHS is currently updating the health sector policy to include both mid-term development
objectives and shorter term activities to restore the delivery of affordable and good quality primary health
services. A greater role for NGOs, the private sector and civil society is envisaged. Other more specific
reforms will aim inter alia at: (i) ensuring the quality of private services and promoting private sector
development; (ii) human resource development including incentives for good performance and for work
in difficult regions; (iii) decentralization to strengthen district teams' decision-making capacity and
involve the users of services in the decision-making process in health facilities, and; (iv) cost-recovery
regulation including specific measures to ensure the affordability of services for the poor population.
With DFID funding, the Government is conducting management and functional reviews of four key
ministries, including MOHS. Their recent (September 2002) report for MOHS provides more than forty
recommendations encompassing a range of concerns including: development of legislation and
regulation, reorientation of the ministry's roles and responsibilities, reorganization of the ministry's
functional units, and specific improvements for each of the units. The recommendations are sound and
proposed HSRDP activities will provide financial and technical support to MOHS for their eventual
implementation.
3. Benefits and target population:
The entire population of one of the poorest countries in the world is expected to benefit. The indigent
population is expected to benefit comparatively more than the general population of the country because
of the revision of the cost recovery arrangements to include specific measures to protect the affordability
of services for the under-served groups, the financing of strategies such as primary health care and
prevention offering a comparative advantage to the poor and the support to programs with large
externalities such as Malaria, TB and Sanitation. Since the project will not support the rehabilitation of
infrastructure in the capital city and will focus on mid-size rural districts, it is expected that the rural
population will also benefit comparatively more than the urban inhabitants. Also, by promoting
decentralization of decision-making, the project will make the health delivery system more responsive to
the needs of these populations.
- 14 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The capacity created in the MOHS by the IHSIP project (in terms of planning, financial management and
procurement) proved to be a good investment.    Using this capacity the MOHS succeeded in
implementing the previous credit satisfactorily in spite of the difficult conditions that prevailed in the
country from 1995 to 2001. It is, therefore, proposed to continue strengthening MOHS capacity and use
it to implement the proposed project without setting up a separate project unit. See also section E 4.1 and
4.2 below on Institutional issues and the PIP.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Besides the alternatives described in section B3, the following project alternatives were discussed with
the borrower:
(a) The design of a project with a broader scope to provide support to the sector as a whole. Such a
project would support the entire service delivery system, including funding for overall sector reform (for
which the Borrower has expressed interest) and for specific areas such as tertiary care, the central drug
procurement and maintenance services, quality assurance, and operational research. This alternative was
rejected due to: (i) the fact that more time is needed to strengthen donor coordination on the basis of a
sound sector strategy; and (ii) the need for the sector to solve its acute problems (with primary and first
referral services, with personnel, and with the lack of reliable quantified information) before addressing
the relatively lower investment priorities of tertiary care, quality assurance, and operational research.
Nonetheless, in the project's four districts the proposed project will finance drugs, vaccines,
micronutrients and food supplements, contraceptives and maintenance services; it will also contribute to
quality assurance by means of training and supervision, and through measures to motivate health
providers. Similarly, the proposed project will help update the health sector policy and will support some
reform activities to further decentralize decision making, strengthen the private sector, review cost
recovery, propose measures to protect the affordability of services for the underserved, and involve the
users of services and the civil society in decision-making in the health sector.
(b) The design of a project relying exclusively on the private for-profit sector. Such an alternative was
rejected after thorough analysis because of the weak development of the private for-profit health sector in
Sierra Leone (practically nonexistent beyond the capital city), the magnitude of the public health issues,
and the extreme poverty of the population. Instead, the project proposes (in its second component)
regulation to foster private sector development, quality and affordability of care, and to expand
"contracting" arrangements to obtain best returns on expenditures. It will also promote the return of
religious NGOs (which previously provided good quality services, sustainable cost-recovery
arrangements, and adequate services for the poor). With support from the project, cost-recovery
practices will be reviewed and measures to protect affordability of services and drugs developed.
(c) The design of a modest, initial project to primarily address data and capacity issues followed (upon
completion) by a larger investment. While such an option is appealing (as it would minimize risks), it
was felt that sufficient information already exists to allow investment to begin in some areas (with
accompanying support from the project for data collection and capacity-building). For instance, district
hospital rehabilitation is an unequivocal priority as the sites are known and the need for investment is
clear (e.g., to receive referred patients from and to provide technical support to health posts and health
centers). Further, health center rehabilitation in the most important chiefdorns of the four participating
districts is also feasible since site selection can be determined during preparation using well-defined
criteria (such as population in the catchment area, accessibility to referral facilities, number of health
- 15 -



posts supervised, etc.). Finally, efforts to resolve personnel shortages and to mitigate the effects of
diseases such as malana and TB are also unquestionable and urgent priorities. While these priorities are
being addressed, the project could also initiate more in-depth analysis, such as the mapping of health
facilities and the development of an infrastructure development plan, a human resources policy, etc.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
HNP                              Integrated Health Sector         S             S
Investment Project
Social Protection                Community Reintegration &        S             S
Rehabilitation Project
Social Protection                National Social Action Project
(LEN)
HIV/AIDS                         HIV/AIDS Multi-sectoral          S             S
Response Project
Education                         Rehabilitation of Basic
Education (LEN)
Other development agencies
UNICEF                           EPI, Safe Motherhood, District
Health Care, Nutrition
WHO                               National Health Policies and
Program Management, Org.
and Manag. of Health Systems
of PHC, Child and Adolescent
Health Development, Essential
drugs and other medicines,
Extemal Cooperation and
Partnership, Repro. Health and
Partnership, Protection of
Human Development,
Communicable diseases
surveillance and response,
disease prevention and control,
Nutrition for health and
development, Blood Safety and
Clinical Technology, Health
Promotion, Health Information
Management and
Dissemination
SAPA (Social Action and Poverty  Health Services Rehabilitation
Alleviation)                     and Reconstruction
NCRRR (ERSF Support)             Health Sector Support (CW)
- 16 -



ADB                              Health Services Rehabilitation
EU                               Support to the health sector
IDB                               Rehab., reconstr., equip and
provide drugs for 20 PHUs
GLRA (German Leprosy Relief       National Leprosy / TB Control
Program)        .,                Program
EC/SL Resettlement and Rehabilitation Health Sector Support Project
Program
MSF (Belgium, France, Holland)    Emergency support to PHU's
and district hospitals
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The current project (IHSIP) as well as the first IDA credit to the health sector in Sierra Leone (Health
Services Development Project) helped identify a number of positive features such as: the sector's ability
to develop a transparent program; the increasingly satisfactory level of performance in planning,
financial management and procurement; and the sector's willingness to collaborate with NGOs. At the
same time, the sector was less successful in implementing technical programs and in decentralizing
decision making; this was due not only to difficulties linked to the war and instability but also to
conflicting donor policies (e.g., reproductive health and mother/child health), insufficient capacity to lead
these programs, and delays in public sector reforms (such as decentralization, computenzation of
financial management in the public sector, simplification of procurement operations which involve the
Central Tender Board in the approval process of minor transactions, etc.) which have hindered
developments in the health sector. Based on these lessons, HSRDP is proposing to capitalize on capacity
already developed in the MOHS to implement the project without creating a Project Implementation
Unit. Moreover, to avoid the above mentioned drawbacks, project preparation has been carried out with
the full participation of other donors, and the Borrower has agreed to evaluate bids using the MOHS
tender board (which will include representation from the Central Tender Board).
The analysis of the experience in implementing technical programs led to other project features such as
an emphasis on.NGOs for social marketing of impregnated bed-nets and condoms, more attention to
contracting out activities (clinical and non-clinical) with the private for-profit and not-for-profit sector,
increased preoccupation with demand raising activities (in particular for bed-nets).
The most successful feature of the IHSIP project (i.e., its capacity to plan taking into account changes in
health status and in the overall situation in the country by using a participatory annual review and
planning process) was also included in the proposed project's design. While the HSRDP resources were
fully allocated during project preparation, implementation arrangements include the possibility of
questioning the pertinence of these allocations annually and of making adjustments during the annual
participatory program review and planning process.
- 17 -



4. Indications of recipient comiitment and ownership
The Government of Sierra Leone has been undertaking reforms and attempting to rehabilitate the health
sector since 1986. Especially during the last ten years the reform process has been carried out in a
participatory manner and has included representation of all stakeholders: district, central levels, donors
and NGOs. Previous experience with the Borrower has convincingly demonstrated its commnitment to the
social sectors and to health in particular. Regarding the proposed project (seen by the Borrower as an
essential means for resuming the most vital functions of the health service delivery system and further
developing the sector), the Borrower has clearly committed itself to review and update the health sector
policy, has substantially contributed to the project design, and is participating in the project preparation
activities by handling 2/3 of the activities financed from the PHRD Grant received for project
preparation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's contnbution to the health sector in Sierra Leone is much praised by the Borrower and its
development partners. Besides the Bank support during the war, the Bank has uniquely contributed to
sector policy formulation, sector planning, and capacity-building at both MOHS and decentralized levels.
Very importantly, the Transitional Support Strategy for Sierra Leone defines clearly the Bank support to
this country and also makes projections on the economic growth in the years to come. The proposed
project would allow this assistance to continue and to grow. It would also contribute to poverty
reduction in Sierra Leone through HSRDP focus on the poor and under-served populations. IDA funding
would complement other donors' funding to the programs dealing with major public health problems and
of a greater benefit to the poor population such as PHC, malaria, TB, and sanitation. The HSRDP would
also help achieve some of the reform and development objectives of the IHSIP project (as mentioned,
IHSIP was restructured to better respond to the crisis situation in the sector and could not achieve some
of its initial objectives as for instance to develop health services outside the Western Region and to
substantially contribute to the reform process).
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
i Other (specify)
Given that: (a) the proposed project will only invest in programmatic areas with well-documented cost
effectiveness ratios (such as primary health care and first referral health facilities, human resources
development, support to programs addressing important infectious disease epidemics e.g., Malaria and
TB); (b) empirical data from Sierra Leone to further explore the soundness of such spending are not
available, and; (c) Annex 7 of the Staff Appraisal Report of the IHSIP (credit 2827-SL) has already
presented analysis on the cost effectiveness of this type of interventions, it was agreed that an economic
analysis of this new project would not be required.
Instead a health sector Public Expenditure Review was carried out during project preparation. On the
one hand, the PER suggests that: (i) the ratio between salaries and non-salary expenditures compares
favorably with most other West African countries; and (ii) expenditures for the most cost effective
programs with large externalities such as PHC, infectious diseases control, and sanitation and prevention
in general were significant and compare well with other expenditures for secondary and tertiary care. On
the other hand, it shows that recent expenditures in the sector financed by the public budget and IDA
were very modest. MOHS' recurrent non-salary expenditures as a share of the Government's total
- 18 -



non-salary budget increased from 4.8% in 1999 to 7.1% in 2001, a proportion that remains low (and is
projected to decline over the period 2002-2004). In addition, the PER showed that, understandably,
insufficient resources had been channeled to the districts and that little was known in regard to the
expenditures made by NGOs and donors. As a result of these findings it was agreed with the Borrower to
regularly monitor expenditures during the annual review meetings against benchmarks established by the
PER and consistent with the sector policy.
It was also recognized that until economic development takes off, the funding of the health sector will
largely depend upon donor funding and that the present project will not be sustainable until there is
substantial macroeconomic development and increase in revenues.
Cost effectiveness considerations:
This project's main thrusts are:
(a) the prevention and management of two major conditions that represent major economuc burdens in
Sub-Sahara Africa in general and in Sierra Leone: malaria and tuberculosis. The economuc burden has
two major dimensions: (i) low productivity of the workforce affected; and (ii) the continuing cost of
treatment due to the lack of complementary efforts in cost-effective prevention.
The methods of prevention to be used in this project have favorable cost-effectiveness ratios documented
by the Bank. Secondary prevention - an efficient complement - is also part of the program. There are no
data that can be used to measure the precise disease burden of Sierra Leone or to assess cost-benefit in
the Sierra Leone context but there is ample literature documenting the cost effectiveness ratios of: the
Roll Back Malana strategy and the DOTS strategy to curb TB.
Moreover, a recent survey conducted by the Central Statistics Office of Sierra Leone points to the
paramount role played by malaria in the disease burden of Sierra Leone. This disease has a significant
impact on the productivity of food-growing workers in rural areas, a major economic issue in
food-importing Sierra Leone.
Diarrheal diseases also contribute significantly to the disease burden of Sierra Leone. There are related
economic losses due to the impairment of human capital through poor nutrition and related lesser
intellectual and physical development of children. The project through the support of cost-effective
sanitation will diminish the economic burden posed by these conditions.
(b) the improvement of basic-health services in four districts that are among the poorest in Sierra Leone.
The services supported by the project are those designated by the Bank as a cost-effective package for
low-income countries. This basic package should reduce the burden of disease in the four selected
districts and through it improve food production and other economic activities.
(c) the strenetheninz of the capacity of MOHS to manage the existing health system by making more
efficient use of resources in the public and private sector. It also supports enhancements in ability to
allocate and distnbute resources to proven cost-effective services and to districts where resources are
likely to get the highest retums per dollar (Leone) spent. Further, the project aims to foster the
procurement and financial capacity of MOHS that will address bottlenecks and delays in securing service
production from investments made.
(d) the mitigation of existing productivity issues in a number of areas that, according to the PER, need
immediate attention. This includes better financial management that will ensure more efficient use of
capital through a greater balance between capital and operating expenses. In view of the improving but
-19-



still poor fiscal capacity of the country, the project will make a contribution by ensuring a level of
operating expenses commensurate to the capital expenditure being undertaken by the project. The
proposed decentralization of decision making to district level and improved financial management at this
level should also improve efficiency in operations and fiscal accountability. In addition, the civil works
activities generated by the project should increase much needed employment and have a positive
multiplier effect on the economy.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ mullion; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financial issues such as fees for health services and recovery of the costs of drugs, measures for ensuring
financial accountability and management of funds generated from cost recovery will only be addressed
during project implementation, although some studies and the revision of the sector policy have been
camed out durnng project preparation.
External audit reports and financial management analysis of the ongoing project implemented by the
MOHS have been unqualified; a project-specific financial management assessment was performed at
Pre-Appraisal; and the Bank is planning to conduct a Country Financial Accountability Assessment in
Sierra Leone. Finally, based on these findings and using funding from a PPF and from the grant itself
(through the HSRDP second component on capacity building), all key MOHS departments (including the
financial one) and all district health teams will be strengthened.
Fiscal Impact:
A number of features of the project should have a beneficial impact on employment and worker
productivity leading to potential increases in government revenue. The PER also identified some
potential revenue sources that could be tapped to improve revenues and the fiscal balance. These include
a more systematic and equitable approach to fees for services and charges for drugs that currently
comprise rather arbitrary measures.
The project requires about US$1 million in counterpart funds over the five-year period of the project.
This represents about a 2% annual increment of MOHS current and capital expenditure funded from
domestic sources during 2001. Therefore, it will not impose a substantial additional burden on the
Government's fiscal situation. However, there are some generic fiscal aspects that require attention.
Some aspects of the project will have to rely on public infrastructure that is currently inadequately
financed. Therefore, during negotiations this issue will be openly discussed to ensure that Government
policy of improving the budgetary situation of MOHS is reflected by the adequate and timely allocation
of funds to MOHS. The PER pointed to the need for increments in MOHS current expenditure
comrnensurate with investments being made. Although the project has made provision for operating
expenses in relation to most of the investments being made, the future sustainability of the facilities
being funded by the project remains an open question. The Bank's macroeconomic dialogue with the
Government will be addressing this issue towards which HPIC/PRSP funds could also have a positive
contribution.
3. Technical:
The project technical design is consistent with best practice examples from similar countries in
post-conflict situations. The project will only fund activities with well-known cost effectiveness ratios.
In order not to delay IDA support to the sector and to respond to Borrower's immediate needs, the
technical design includes data collection activities and studies which, under more normal conditions,
would had been performed at the preparation stage. This was deemed necessary for the reasons
mentioned above but also because of cost and human resources considerations.
-20-



4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The MOHS will be the overall executing agency of the grant. Some activities will be executed by NGOs
as the project will encourage contracting out of public services to pnvate not-for-profit providers will
support district health teams and MOHS selected technical programs and key management/administrative
services. These programs and services will implement the activities financed by HSRDP under the
coordination of the Planning department and the direction of the Director General of Medical Services.
4.2 Project management:
The project has been prepared by the Borrower with financial support from a PHRD Grant from the
Japanese Government and a Project Preparation Facility. The MOHS has appointed a focal point and a
project preparation team. During project preparation, and especially during the project's first years,
important capacity-building activities will be carried out. At the preparation stage technical assistance
was provided for the following studies: (a) Health Sector Priority Issues and Strategic Approaches; (b)
Social Assessment; (c) Project Implementation Plan/Operational Manual; (d) Environmental Assessment;
(e) Public Expenditures Review for the Health Sector; (f) Health Facility Inventory; (g) Human
Resources Assessment; (h) Update of the Health Sector Policy, and; (i) National and Distnct Health
Plans and a Three-Year-Rolling Plan. As mentioned, HSRDP will be implemented without appointing a
PCU following the same arrangement used for the IHSIP project. This includes the appointment of: (a)
the Director General of Medical Services as HSRDP project director and (b) the Director of Planning as
HSRDP Project coordinator, (c) the use of the existing "Top Management Team" as a mechanism to
coordinate the activities carried out by the units reporting to the Director General of Management
Services (Permanent Secretary) such as Financial Management, Procurement and Internal Audit, with the
ones carried out by the units reporting to the Director General of Medical Services (such as the technical
programs and the District health Teams), (d) the use of the Annual Review and Planning process and (e)
regular project reporting and supervision (the latter with the participation of MOHS units, distncts and
relevant internal and external partners). In addition, important strengthening of the support departments
involved in HSRDP management is planned under the second component of the project. This includes
the use of TA (locally recruited for longer assignments) in case of failure to fill essential posts (in
particular in areas such as planning, procurement, financial management, human resources development)
with civil servants. Monitonng and evaluation indicators (see Annex 1 and the PIP) have been designed
and MOHS capacity in this area will be strengthened. A very important project design feature is the
HSRDP built-in flexibility, using the Annual Review and Operational Planning exercise (during these
exercises MOH together with external partners and stake holders will take stock of progress in the sector,
review the relevance of HSRDP funded activities for the next year, adjust activities as needed (and taking
due account of the HSRDP development objectives), and include IDA funded activities into the
respective Sector Annual Operational Plan). PAD section B 1 on Strategic context describes three agreed
TSS scenarios stating how a deterioration of the political environment, conflict and instability would
affect Bank operations in general and the HSRDP implementation, in particular.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement issues will be handled by the MOHS procurement unit (established in 1996 under the
IDA-financed IHSIP project). This unit's capacity will be further strengthened. Among project
negotiations conditionalities were Borrower's agreement to using the MOHS Tender Board to speed up
the evaluation and contract award process. The last Country Procurement Assessment dates back to
1985.
- 21 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
As mentioned, the performance of the Finance Department of the MOHS (strengthened with support
from the current project) had been assessed as satisfactory by the external auditor and Bank supervision
missions. This capacity was reassessed at the Pre-Appraisal and was judged adequate. The only
potential financial management issue known at this stage is the award of funds to support eligible
unplanned activities to be developed by District health teams. Adequate financial management capacity
in districts (such as the presence of a trained accountant and the possibility to open an account in a
private Bank) would be a condition for disbursement of such funds under the proposed grant.
Funding resources for the project consist of an IDA Grant of US$20.0 million. In addition, the
Government will make available about US$1 million in counterpart funds. The MOHS has the
accounting system documented in a recently updated manual, trained and experienced accounting staff,
adequate reporting systems and auditing arrangements and have previous experience in managing Bank
funded projects. The MOHS has also committed to automate the preparation of the FMRs under the
project through the use of a reliable and robust accounting software. There are no outstanding audits or
audit issues.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The Environmental Assessment has established that there are no significant environmental issues and that
potential impacts will be manageable. The overall environmental impact is expected to be favorable as
the project will finance a sanitation component and activities to mitigate a possible environmental impact
of medical waste of the health facilities to be rehabilitated with financial support from the project. This
will include building of incinerators and lined pits within hospital compounds for health-facility waste,
rehabilitation of essential staff quarters and of latrines and water supply systems; existing water wells
within the hospital compounds will be deepened to increase current yields. The sanitation component
will finance contracts with local providers to collect and transport solid waste in the four district capital
cities and also, transportation means, TA for adequate dump sites identification and the development of
dump sites for solid and liquid waste disposal, and also staff training (in collaboration with the SHARP
project) and IEC activities in communities. The project will not finance insecticides and/or larvicides
(but will help strengthen malaria control by expanding the use of impregnated bed nets).
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The environmental impact assessment conducted for the HSRDP identified potential environmental
issues and included an environmental management plan (EMP) to control/mitigate any environmental
negative impact in the proposed project. The HSRDP will finance environmental impact mitigation
activities needed as a result of its component 1 (i.e., (a) Medical waste management in the facilities to be
rehabilitated with HSRDP support in the four participating districts and (b) Solid waste management in
the district capital cities of the four participating districts). Thus, the environmental mitigation activities
supported by HSRDP would consist of: US$226,000 for supporting dumpsites development by
municipalities (plus US$10,000 equivalent from community participation to each of the 4 dumpsites) in
the four district capital cities; US$40,000 for making incinerators and lined pits in the facilities to be
rehabilitated of the same districts; US$25,000 for TA to advise municipalities on dumpsites identification
and development and on other environmental issues, training on operating and maintenance of
incinerators; US$19,000 to contribute towards the operating cost of monitoring and supervision activities
by environmental inspectors in 4 districts; US$20,000 to support to empty septic tanks and lined pits in
four district hospitals US$20,000 (or a total amount of US$350,000 (additionally 40,000 will be provided
-22 -



by community participation)). The SHARP project will also contribute, as it will finance the training of
environmental inspectors and health providers of the four districts in medical waste management.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: November 1, 2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The District Health Management Teamns of Moyamba, Bombali, Koinadugu and Kono districts in
collaboration with Regional Environmental Officers based in Kenema in the east and Port Loko in the
north respectively facilitated consultations with communities in the Moyamba, Koinadugu, Bombali and
Kono districts. Structured questionnaires were used to obtain information for the environmental analysis.
The team conducting the Environmental Analysis visited the headquarter town of Moyamba, Koinadugu,
Bombali and Kono plus each of the three rural communities (sites for community health centers) in each
of the target distncts. The EA team presented the project and described the potential adverse and
beneficial effects. It was stressed that the objective of the meeting was to inform and gather information
and that participants should feel free to come forward with their concerns so that they can be integrated
in the EA report. General discussions were concluded with "Question and Answer" sessions to clanfy
and note the respective issues and concerns.
Analysis of responses to the administered questionnaires showed that:
1. An appreciable number of those interviewed in the vanous districts expressed the desire to see
the strengthening of their local capacities to handle environmental mitigation plans and activities.
2. The perceptions on environmental impacts of the project amongst the interviewed varied slightly.
The majority view seems to be that the project poses little or no threat to the environment. There
were those who agreed that some degree of environmental degradation is associated with the project,
however they were of the view that these impacts are manageable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
A monitoring plan has been prepared as part of the Environmental Assessment. The monitonng
indicators reflect the objectives of the Environmental Management Plan. Institutional arrangements and
cost estimates for implementation of the monitoring plan are included in the plan.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
With PHRD grant resources, a social assessment was carned out during project preparation. The social
assessment highlighted a range of issues constraining health care in the country and recommended that
government make a concerted effort to ensure that health care is provided to all citizens by increasing
community participation and involvement to ensure that the care provided uses appropnate technology
and is acceptable, accessible and affordable. Equally important is the availability of: sufficiently
qualified, committed and accountable health care personnel working under favorable conditions;
adequate supplies of essential drugs of acceptable quality and available to all who need them; and
measures to ensure provision of basic health services to the most vulnerable and needy groups.
- 23 -



The project aims at improving health outcomes with an emphasis on the underserved groups (i.e.
low-income groups and women in the districts affected until very recently by war). This will be carried
out through a set of strategies that will protect the accessibility to health services of the lowest income
groups; the proposed project will support: development of health facilities in rural areas; and
implementation of strategies offering a comparative advantage to the underserved such as prevention,
primary health care, control of infectious diseases and reproductive health. Moreover, and very
importantly, the project will: (a) assess cost recovery arrangements and fees for services and drugs, (b)
promote regulation that will exempt preventive services and protect the accessibility to services of the
poor population, (c) support the establishment of risk sharing schemes, and (d) establish mechanisms for
funding (e.g., from equity funds premiums) the costs of fees and/or drugs for low-income groups.
Increased utilization of health services by low-income groups and women will be measured by indicators
dealing with the utilization of outpatient services, utilization of hospital services and patient satisfaction.
A future DHS will be designed to allow the breakdown of data per income groups.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The MOHS has already established a large participatory review and planning process which includes
district personnel, donors, international and local NGOs. This process will continue in the future and
will be used to reach agreement on the new project and also to assess its performance and allocate funds
during project implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See point 6.2 also. Dunng and immediately after the conflict, intemational and local NGOs have
provided health services in districts not accessible to donors and to Govemment. While the public sector
initially doubted the quality of NGO services, this perception has rapidly changed. The MOHS has
established a unit in charge with donor and NGO coordination and is executing some of the activities
(e.g., condom and bed-net distribution) contracting out with NGOs and the private sector. Overall, the
MOHS procedures are transparent and well shared with a large array of stakeholders. The HSRDP will
support the MOHS Donor/NGO coordination unit, will help involve NGOs in the annual sector review
and planning exercise and in decision making, and will finance activities to be contracted out with NGOs
and for-profit service providers. Similarly, the project will help strengthen the participation of the users
of services and of the civil society in health facility management and policy decisions in the health
sector.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Routine project supervision and annual project review and planning sessions will be carried out by the
MOHS (especially by the Planning, Monitoring and Statistics unit, the Primary Health Care Unit, the
District Health Management Teams and the Donor and NGO liaison unit) and will be used to monitor the
progress in the achievement of social development outcomes. A DHS scheduled to take place in 2003
will be designed to allow the breakdown of data per income groups. The following DHS, probably
taking place only in 2008, will also provide useful information (although, probably, too late to be used in
the proposed project's ICR). The DHMT and health committees in the four districts supported by the
project will also involve the users of services and of the civil society in decision-making at health facility
level (such users should include women) and the decentralization of decision-making to district teams (a
process which will increase the participation of religious and political leaders and of the civil society in
general in decisions relevant to the health sector).
6.5 How will the project monitor performnance in terms of social development outcomes?
-24 -



Available data do not allow the monitoring of health outcomes and of the mobility of the population
during the last years, instead, project performance will be monitored using input and output indicators.
Should reliable baseline data on health outcomes per income and/or gender groups become available, the
indicators to be derived from these data will be included among the project's performance indicators.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pr ect?
m,--' -17.      so Triggered, -   -
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          S Yes (7No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4:04, GP 4.04)                (U Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  (9 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    (9 Yes S No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               (U) Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                (U) Yes O No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                 _I Yes (U) No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                           (U) Yes _No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    Yes   No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      ( Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
To ensure compliance with the applicable safeguard policies, an environmental analysis has been camed
out (see paragraphs 5.1 to 5.5 over) and a Resettlement Policy Framework has been prepared.
Involuntary Resettlement: The HSRDP includes a sanitation component that will finance contracts
with local providers to collect and transport solid waste in the four districts selected as well as the
development of dumpsites. The supported dumpsite development is small in scale and is expected to
cause little or no significant adverse impacts. Nonetheless, since all sites have not yet been identified,
experience shows that such activities sometimes do cause loss of land or loss of access to other resources.
Therefore, any land acquisition associated with dumpsite development will be undertaken in accordance
with an agreed Framework for Land Acquisition Policy and Procedures. The Framework defines terms
and provides guidance for involuntary acquisition of land or other assets (including restrictions on asset
use), and establishes principles and procedures to be followed to ensure equitable treatment for, and
rehabilitation of, any persons adversely affected. The Framework was disclosed in Freetown on
November 7, 2002.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the HSRDP is linked to the success of the Government's implementation of its
recovery and reform program, within a sound macro-economic framework. The PER listed a number of
issues which must be addressed to ensure sustainability of the health care system in the longer term and
which are of relevance for the sustainability of the project. Services cannot be delivered without
adequate numbers of trained and motivated personnel, either in the public and private, and this implies a
larger capacity to train and adequate current expenditures to pay personnel. Proposed budgetary
allocations show imbalances between present' capital expenditure (mostly external sources) and future
operating expenditures from domestic sources. In the medium term there will be need to overcome
current dependence on external funds through increased domestic revenues.
-25 -



At this time, there are still districts in which Government control has only recently been restored and in
which electricity, telephone and other communication, transport and banking facilities do not operate
fully. While recent macroeconomic projections predict growth of more than 5% for the next few years,
the projected increases in revenue seem rather modest. In other words, until this situation is changed, in
Sierra Leone more than in other developing countries, the funding of the health sector will be highly
dependent on external sources. Therefore, within the limits of prudent fiscal management, as the
macroeconomic situation improves, there is urgent need to (a) increase the share of the budget allocation
to the health sector to reasonable levels and also (b) seek domestic sources of funds that will ensure the
future sustainability of the health delivery system with a lower dependence on external sources. These
issues ought to be one of the priorities in the Bank's dialogue with the Government (including the PRSP
dialogue).
Nonetheless, reforms of the public health system supported by the project will improve performance and
make the public sector more credible to consumers of services. They will also promote efficiency in the
provision of more effective and relevant services. Improvements in the country's economic situation
should also enhance the capacity to pay for services of greater relevance and quality. These conditions
should increase the potential for revenue collections from fees for services and charge for drugs supplied
provided that appropnate financial management at local level is improved.
While the above is likely to happen in the midium term, immediate prospects are less clear as the
population is generally poor and the underserved groups, in particular in the distncts supported by
HSRDP, are numerous. For this reason, the project has included measures not only to improve sector
financing and efficiency but also to reinstate cost recovery with appropriate safeguards to assure
affordability of services for the underserved groups.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Unstable political situation               S        Sound demobilization process, successful
peace negotiation, democratic elections
Weak capacity to implement sector          S        The project includes a first phase supporting
reform                                              with priority capacity building and data
collection to enable the implementation of the
reform
Insufficient political determination to   M         The Bank and other donors will pursue
effect the decentralization policy.                 decentralization in public sector in general.
The health sector work with district teams will
be supported. Civil society involvement will
be increased.
From Components to Outputs
Implementation capacity will remain        S        Capacity building will be one of the major
weak and donor programs will not be                 thrusts of the Bank policy. Programs of all
well coordinated                                    partners will be annually reviewed and will be
planned in a transparent manner to insure
consistency with policy objectives of the health
sector. The NGO coordination unit of the
MOHS will be strengthened to also encompass
- 26 -



Donor programs coordination. The planning
unit will work more closely with the external
partners and the financial department will be
involved in the monitoring of donor's financial
inputs.
Some districts will remain unstable and   S         The project will expand activities to all
investment and provider re-deployment               districts in parallel with the improvement of the
will not be feasible.                               situation. NGOs will be encouraged to assist in
less safe zones. Agreements will be reached to
allow critical interventions (such as
immunizations) in areas without Governmental
control.
Human resources development will not       S        Human resources development will be pursued
be paced adequately and health facilities          in all the sectors and will become a policy
will be rehabilitated and equipped but              priority for the public sector. In the health
will not be properly staffed.                       sector, all donors will be mobilized and human
resources planning will be harmonized with
infrastructure planning.
Budget allocation to the health sector will  S      Government will pursue macroeconomic
remain insignificant and donor "fatigue"            objectives and more resources will be made
might diminish TA and other donor/NGO               available to the social sectors from debt
support received by the sector.                     relief/PRSP operations.
Overall Risk Rating                        s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) Counterpart funding covering the first quarter of the project and equivalent to US$25,000 is deposited
in the account established for this purpose.
(b) The Borrower has selected an independent Auditor.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions for Negotiations were met. They included:
(a) The Borrower has agreed with the principle of using the MOHS Tender Board for the evaluation of
bids for contracts financed from the project and other sources including the MOHS own budget.
(b) The Borrower has confirmed that GOSL policy to exempt from taxes the goods purchased under IDA
financing also applies to HSRDP.
(c) The Borrower has improved the accounting and financial system in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
(d) The Borrower has strengthened the MOHS Procurement unit in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
- 27 -



(e) The MOHS has issued a Procurement Plan, an Accounting Manual and an Operational Manual
acceptable to the Association.
Other Covenants
(a) By September 30, 2005, the MOHS will conduct a Mid-term review.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1  2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Astrid Helgeland-Lawson           Adexandre V. Abrantes             Mats Karisson
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
-28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SIERRA LEONE: HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
:  . - . <.  '  ,:  - |  ' ~.;Ke'4erfob man'ce . :~..EffData-Cbll,ecti6n-Strat'g;~-'-. ..r  '-L' 
.Hir cho,,,,,j cive,, _-  ,J,ndicato'rs. .*.;  .  ,'    ,.,-,;-      >;,   Crt,_,,___ u'_ptio_s--
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Recovery and rehabilitation  Input/process            . General macroeconomnic data . Increased political and social
and gradual pursuance of   . Share of GDP allocated to  Sector reports (HMIS)    stability
long-term development      health.                     . Sector inventory of     . Successful refugee and
objectives through:        . Number of health facilities  providers and infrastructure  internally displaced people
Support to rebuild human   rehabilitated.             . Annual review and planning  programs
capital by irmproving health  . Number of health providers  documents.            . Successful beginning of
status of the population   in public and private health  . DHS and other specialized  macroeconomic development
Reduction of negative impact  facilities.,            surveys.                    : Full recognition of the health
of infectious disease      . Improved distribution of                            sector role in the
epidemics and malnutrition on health providers.                                  normalization of the political
social and economic        . Increased numbers of district                       and social situation, peace and
development                health administrations fully                          development.
Provision of health and    operational.                                           . Successful development of
education services to the  Outcomes/impact                                       the private sector and
population of districts affected . Infant mortality rate                         especially of private
by war.                    decreases from 170/1000 in                            not-for-profit health services
2000 to 150/1000 in 2005 and
to 125 in 2007.
. Under-five mortality rate
decreases from 286/1000 in
2000 to 250/1000 in 2005 and
to 230/1000 in 2007.
. Maternal mortality rate
decreases from 1800/100,000
in 2000 to 1400 in 2005 and
1200 per 100,000 live births in
2007
-29 -



M        -  i--i', -            KeyPerformance'-        Data CollectionStrategy. --..-.V '
. Hlerarchy-of        O        bj cFves-     i. -  .   A,ndlc Itrs'  * - , ...'|.: -: -   . - - Critical Assumptions,
Project Development         Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
Restore the most essential  1. Larger proportion of     Health sector reporting     Successful implementation of
functions of the health sector  districts with district health                     human resources policy and
delivery system.            teamns operating fully.                                action plan
2. Larger proportion of     Annual sector review        Increased implementation
population having access to  documents                  capacity in the sector
essential health services.
3. Larger proportion of     Annual sector review        Good progress in
districts with district hospitals documents             decentralization of decision
fully functional.                                       making to districts
4. Improved utilization rates of Annual sector review   Successful development of
outpatient and inpatient health documents               roads and transportation
facilities in the four                                  means
participating districts and in
all districts.
5. Improved user of service  Health Sector Reporting    Improvements in food
satisfaction with health                                security, services provided by
services provided by the                                other sectors such as water and
public sector in the four                               electricity.
participating districts and in
all districts.
- 30 -



.Key;Perfo   rrc.-=   -DataCollection Strategy t -  -, y      --
HlHierarohyo-t Objectives -s Indicators.               -     -         .;.-.. -  Crit s
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Essential health services  a) Increase in number of  Annual sector review    Programs of other donors are
provided.                  health centers rehabilitated  documents              implemented as planned.
and functional             Field supervision         Budget allocation is consistent
b) Increased budget allocation                       with sector policy.
to primary health services                           Other sectors make reasonable
c) Decreased number of                               progress in their programs
districts in which district staff                    NGOs continue to support
cannot supervise health                              health care delivery.
centers and posts due to                             Drug procurement and
security restrictions                                distribution activities funded
d) Malaria and TB epidemics                           by other donors are
are declining in terms of                             implemented
incidence and number of                              Integration of technical
outbreaks (as appropriate).                           programs takes place.
e) Improved performance:
-Immunization coverage will
increase from 46% in 2000 to
60% in 2005 and 65% in 2007
-Contraceptive prevalence rate
will increase from 3.9% in
2000 to 8% in 2005 and 10%
in 2007
-Percentage of children under
5 years of age sleeping
regularly under
insecticide-treated bed nets
will increase from 1.5% in
2000 to 20% in 2005 and 40%
in 2007
-Delivenes assisted by
qualified personnel will
increase from 42% in 2000 to
55% in 2005 and 60% in 2007
-Percentage of smear-positive
cases successfully treated
under DOTS strategy will
improve and reach 85% in
2007
2: MOHS capacity is        a) Increased number of MOHS Annual sector review     Decentralization in the public
strengthened; a substantial part key units staffed with  documents.             sector makes progress.
of decision making is      appropriate personnel, fully  Inventory of health personnel  Government employment and
transferred to district health  equipped and functional.  Health provider survey.  remuneration policy reviewed
teams. The availability and the b) Recurrent non-salary  Annual district health plans.  and implemented.
distnbution of health      budget allocation of the                             Education sector output
personnel is improved      MOHS increases.                                      increases.
c) Infrastructure development                         On site training becomes
plan is adopted.                                      feasible.
d) Number of districts health
teams benefitting from budget
- 31 -



support from the credit
increases and the audit of
these funds finds the
utilization adequate.
e) Number of health providers
of all categories and of
specialized doctors, family
doctors, nurses and midwifes
increases.
f) Smaller inter-district
variations m staffing.
g) Improved satisfaction in
health providers with work
conditions
h) Increased recurrent salary
budget in the health sector.
i) Human resources
development plan adopted
3. Private sector capacity is  a) Increased in number of  Annual sector review       Privatization becomes a main
strengthened. The civil     private health pr.pviders    documents                  thrust of the Government
society is involved in health  outside the capital city and in  Surveys.             policy.
matters.                    the four participating districts. Government bills and reports. Contracting out is more often
b) Legislation to regulate                               used across the sectors.
quality and prices and to foster                         Democratization process
private sector development                               advances convincingly in the
enacted.                                                 public sector and in particular
c) Number of activities                                  in the health sector.
contracted out (clinical and                             IHSIP project is implemented
non-clinical services) by the                            in a satisfactory manner.
public sector to the private
providers increases.
d) Number of religious NGOs
operating in health increases.
e) Participative decision
making in health facilities
(involving users, women and
religious and political leaders)
takes place in an increased
number of district hospitals.
- 32 -



-  .  r .   '-. -it, .-l-.-:Key Performianc  _ -Data Cb oIectroiSateg |_      -     --..
.,LHier rchy-of Objectiv s.-s -  --:  . indicators . .                .            rtica l-Assunptipns.-
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1) Restoring essential health  US$15.04 million     Project supervision reports  Updated overall sector policy
services.                                            Annual review documents   adopted and endorsed by all
1 1 Restoring health service                         Annual operational plans  partners.
delivery in four priority                            Audit reports             Effective implementation of
districts.                                           Epidemiological Surveillance  the HSRDP in the four
1.2 Support key technical                            System reports            participating districts.
programs: Malaria and TB and                         Disease specific surveys  District capacity and revenues
Sanitation.                                          DHS                       are improved substantially
Progressive and effective
integration of technical
programs.
Effective coordination of
partners operating in health
and between these ones and all
other partners involved in
peace and rehabilitation
process
All districts become safe and
country-wide data collection
become possible.
2) Public and Private sector  US$5.98 million        Health Infrastrucutre     The importance of the health
capacity development                                 Development Plan.         development for the
2.1 Strengthen district teams                        Human Resources Strategy  consolidation of peace and
capacity to plan, evaluate and                       and Plan.                 successful demobilization
implement.                                           Annual Operations Plans and  programs is fully recognized.
2.2 Strengthen MOHS                                  Evaluation Reports.       Health program activities are
planning, budgeting, financial                       Project supervision reports.  well coordinated with the
management, coordination and                         Annual review documents.  programs of other sectors
program implementation                               Annual operational plans.  Decentralization is pursued in
capacity. This includes the                          Audit reports.            the public sector and proper
strengthening of information                                                   legislation enacted.
for sector management and                                                      Updated human resource
planning.                                                                      policy adopted and endorsed
2.3 Improved HRD including                                                     by all partners.
support to medical, nursing                                                    Developments in other sectors
and mrdwifery training and the                                                 make re-deployment of health
development of a reward                                                        providers feasible.
system to promote good                                                         Other partners recognize this
performance and motivate                                                        priority issue and invest in
health providers,                                                              human resources.
All districts become safe and
country-wide data collection
become possible.
Other donors agree on the
scope of and support major
surveys (such as the DHS and
the population census).
2.3) Strengthen private sector                       Project supervision reports.  Privatization becomes an
capacity and civil society                           Annual review documents.   important thrust of
participation.                                       Annual operational plans  Government policy.
-33 -



Audit reports.             MOHS changes its mandate
Legislation and GOSL policy  from a deliverer of services to
documents and reports.     contract management and
quality assurance.
All districts become safe.
Democratization is pursued
across the sectors.
Economic development is
successful.
-34 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SIERRA LEONE: HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$15.02 million
Restoring Essential Health Services.
This component will: (a) provide assistance to four priority districts to deliver adequate health services
and (b) support three key technical programs to improve their performance and control infectious
diseases of public health importance in Sierra Leone (i.e., Malaria, TB and Sanitation).
1.1 Restoring health service delivery in four priority districts (Bombali, Koinadugu, Kono and
Moyamba). The project will finance equipment, drugs, vaccines, furniture, training and supervision
needed for the adequate functioning of 50 health posts built with support from the IDA funded
Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project and other social fund projects. The project will also
finance civil works (to rehabilitate and expand health facilities and essential staff quarters) equipment,
rehabilitation and upgrading of water distribution and medical waste disposal systems, communication
and transportation means (motorcycles and ambulances) for 12 health centers of the most important
chiefdoms and the four first referral hospitals located in the capital city of the respective districts.
Finally, it will also provide support to these districts to ensure the delivery of adequate health care,
including measures to foster private services development and to solve health provider shortages and
other human resources issues. A particular attention will be paid to health facility (medical in particular
but also solid and liquid) waste management and to related IEC activities for health providers. As all
these activities will be carried out at existing and operating health facilities (and in addition, for the
hospitals within the hospital compound) this sub-component will not cause any resettlement of the
population nor removal of squatters. The selection of the four districts to receive financial assistance
from the project, carried out during project preparation, was based on the following criteria: importance
for demobilization, resettlement and peace, magnitude of the public health problems, degree of damage to
health infrastructure, existing or potential support from donors. Regarding the health centers, the
selection of the 12 facilities took into account the following criteria: more than 15,000 inhabitants in the
catchment area, degree of damage, lack of access to a private or public similar facility in a radius of 15
Km, receiving referred patients from more than four health posts and proximity to an important road.
While the sub-component 1.1 aims at providing a comprehensive package (a "package" includes a large
array of support measures such as civil works, equipment, water, latrines, incinerators, essential staff
quarters, training, communication means and ambulances) to all four districts, it was clearly agreed to
adapt this package to the actual situation of each site. This was needed since, for instance, some
rehabilitation works have already been carried out in selected facilities, the needs of the distncts vary
and, also, in a few cases some equipment was already provided by GOSL or NGOs.
Moreover, the component will also support, to the extent needed, the delivery of all essential preventive
and curative care in all the health facilities of the four districts. Thus, through the assistance provided
under this component, the project will also contnbute in these four districts to the implementation of the
activities of: (a) all major technical health programs (and not only the three programs included in the
sub-component 1.2) and (b) all MOHS support programs (and not only the five key MOHS support
programs included in the component 2.2).
Thus, while the project will only support five technical programs at central level (and not
Onchocerciasis, HIV/AIDS, Reproductive Health/Safe Motherhood/Family Planning, EPI, and Nutrition,
which already benefit from substantial assistance made available from grants and by WHO, UNICEF,
UNFPA and some bilaterals), HSRDP will support these programs, to the extent needed, as part of
-35 -



project support to the four participating districts. The HSRDP will continue to support the integration of
"vertical programs" and the development of an epidemiological surveillance system (with focus on but
not restricted to Malaria and TB). It is worth noting that in spite of a seemingly "verticalization" at
central level (since MOHS maintains oversight and develops appropriate policies through its technical
programs) all technical programs are part of the MOHS Program 7 (Primary Health Care) and are: (a)
coordinated by the Director of PHC/Deputy Director General of medical services and (b) executed in an
integrated manner by the district health teams.
Likewise, the maintenance and drug procurement, stock management and distribution programs will be
strengthened at the central level with the support of other MOHS' partners (e.g., the Central Medical
Stores and the MOHS drug and maintenance programs will be assisted by AfDB and EU). Nonetheless,
HSRDP will contribute to these programs in a concrete manner, in the four participating districts, by
rehabilitating drug stores, funding drugs, condoms and other contraceptives, consumables, vaccines,
micronutrients and food supplements, spare parts and other non-salary recurrent expenditures.
1.2 Support to priority technical programs, i.e., Malaria, TB, and Sanitation, targeting the most
important public health problems. The project will finance:
(i) Malaria control activities, focusing on the strengthening of case management, and on the promotion
and distribution of insecticide-treated bed-nets (to be distributed and re-impregnated with local NGO
support). Several activities are planned to strengthen case management including (a) development and
production of guidelines for appropriate case management, (b) training of health workers in appropriate
case management and in Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI), (c) establishment of a
sentinel surveillance system for monitoring antimalarial drug treatment efficacy, (d) strengthening of
laboratory diagnostic capacity at health facilities through provision of equipment and supplies and
training of laboratory staff, (e) supervision of clinical staff, including the provision of a vehicle for
central level supervision, (f) procurement of reserve stocks of drugs, and (g) operational research on
approaches to improve case management (e.g., use of pre-packaged drugs). Promotion and distribution
of insecticide-treated bed nets (ITNs) will be a collaborative effort between the malaria control program
and designated NGO(s). Policy and guideline development, standard setting, oversight, and generic
promotion activities will be carried out by the malaria control program. Activities for promotion of
sale/distribution of bed nets and insecticides for reimpregnation will be carried out through contracting
with NGOs. The monitoring and supervision capacity of the national malaria control program will also
be strengthened through procurement of office equipment and supplies, and training of staff in statistical
methods.
(ii) TB control program will be supported by strengthening laboratories, training, and logistics for the
implementation of the DOTS strategy. Diagnostic capacity will be strengthened through training of
clinical, both facility and community-based, and laboratory staff in case detection and management.
Laboratory capacity will also be expanded through the procurement of equipment, supplies, and
furniture. Community awareness campaigns will be carred out, including the development and
production of EEC materials. Operational research activities will be carried out including approaches for
expansion of the DOTS strategy into the community and surveys to monitoring the prevalence of drug
resistance.
(iii) Sanitation and environmental impact mitigation measures in the four districts supported by the
project (as opposed the IHSIP support which targeted the Freetown area). Regarding sanitation, a
program of importance for all infectious disease control activities and for prevention in general, the
project will support activities to be contracted out with private providers (e.g., solid waste management,
- 36 -



following the model successfully used in the Western region and in Guinea) and advocacy for involving
municipalities and communes in waste management (thus redefining the task of the MOHS from,,a
provider of services to contract management and environmental monitoring; the ultimate objective of this
program will be transfer sanitation responsibilities to municipalities and commnunes). The HSRDP will
also (i) strengthen the capacity in environmental monitoring by training environmental inspectors, and
providing support for environment supervision and (ii) help carry out IEC activities for the benefit of
health providers, the personnel involved in medical waste management and users of health services (in
collaboration with the SHARP). Regarding environmental impact mitigation the project will finance (a)
waste management measures with emphasis on medical waste in the 12 health centers and, in particular,
in the four district hospitals to be rehabilitated (incinerators, lined pits, latrines, including support for
their maintenance and functioning, training of relevant staff and of health providers), (b) dump site
development by municipalities (additional support will be provided from community participation) in the
four district capital cities (dump sites will include liquid waste), (c) building incinerators and lined pits in
the facilities to be rehabilitated of the same districts, (d) TA to advise municipalities on dump site
identification and development, and on other environmental issues, training on operating and
maintenance of incinerators, (e) the operating cost of monitonng and supervision activities by
environmental inspectors in 4 districts, (f) private providers to empty septic tanks and lined pits in four
district hospitals and (g) transportation means for solid waste for the four district capital cities. The
SHARP project will also contribute, as it will finance the training of environmental inspectors and health
providers of the four distncts in medical waste management.
Project Component 2 - US$5.98 million
Strengthening Public and Private Sector Capacity
Under this component, HSRDP would support measures to improve performance and increase efficiency
in the health sector by: (a) strengthening the program and resource management capabilities of key
services within the District Health Management Teams (DHMT) and MOHS; and (b) promoting pnvate
sector and civil society participation in the health sector and developing mechanisms to increase the
efficiency, ensure the equity, and improve the quality of services provided.
2.1 Foster decentralization and improve the performance of District Health Management Teams.
As part of the decentralized budget reforms currently underway, MOHS has: (a) established some 60 cost
centers (including the 13 DHMT), which prepare annual budgets and disburse authorized GOSL funds;
and (b) instituted a mechanism financing district operating expenditures which has been successfully
implemented in seven of the thirteen districts. The project would finance training of cost center financial
officers (particularly at district level) and will provide funds supporting operating costs in the qualifying
districts (i.e., those meeting the cnteria for adequate financial management).
Technical assistance to district health teams will be provided, among others, by the MOHS Planning,
monitoring and evaluation and the Financial departments, and by the other MOHS support programs.
HSRDP funding will be channeled following an already existing mechanism for support of operating
expenditures in the districts established by IHSIP (i.e., the distncts meeting critena of sound financial
management are eligible, the funds ought to be used for unplanned activities for which the public budget
is not sufficient such as supervision, emergency operations in case of infectious disease outbreaks, etc.).
The DHMT will decide on the necessity of using such funds (more detailed criteria for eligibility of
funding for certain activities such as the ones mentioned above had been developed and agreed upon with
the MOHS). Upon spending of the allocation, replenishment will be conditioned on proof of spending
presented by distncts. Although, only up to a total of US$0.4 million will be spent for the entire duration
of the project for this type of funding, this subcomponent is expected to greatly assist DHMvIT to make
their own decisions and manage in a hands on manner local health and planning and management
problems. It is worth mentioning that support to districts would also be granted through the annual
- 37 -



planning exercise (to which the district plans are expected to increase their contribution).
2.2 Strengthen the MOHS key support programs, i.e., Human resources development (HRD),
Planning, monitoring and statistics, Financial management, Procurement and Donor/NGO
coordination. The HSRDP would provide ongoing support for the continued improvement of staff
capabilities and support programs at MOHS level (including Planning, monitoring and statistics,
Financial management, Procurement and Donor/NGO coordination). These support programs have been
selected on the basis of their importance to improving sector efficiency, insufficient funding from other
sources, and HSRDP's intention to implement the project with MOHS' capacity (and not with a PCU).
Planning, monitoring and statistics unit. The Project would provide overall operational support to the
department for personnel, equipment and transport, and training and technical assistance and specific
support to: (a) revise and disseminate the national health policy; (b) reinforce the medium-term planning
and annual planning and programming exercises as well as the annual sector review; and (c) strengthen
both routine health information management and periodic surveys and research.
Health policy. With support from a PHRD grant, MOHS has revised the 1993 National Health Policy,
and a final, formally approved National Health Policy should be ready by early 2003. HSRDP would
support the dissemination and public discussion of the final policy through: (a) publication of the final
document; and (b) organization of national and regional workshops for health personnel, local
authonties, and public opinion leaders. In addition, the project would include consultant and workshop
support for future revision of the policy at the end of the project period.
Health planning and programming.  With the return to normalcy, MOHS shifted from quarterly
emergency planning to annual planning and began to undertake other longer term planning activities. For
2003 and beyond, MOHS has as objectives to strengthen the planning process and to improve the annual
sector reviews.  The planning process would be strengthened by: (a) improving the Planning
Department's ability to collect and analyze information on health sector expenditures; (b) revising the
planning guidelines to institute a Three-year Rolling Plan and improve the Annual Operational Planning;
and (c) improving the planning capabilities of the District Health Management Teams. The project
would finance a full-time health economist, preparation of planning and budgeting guidelines, and review
of proposed planned expenditures by the different cost centers. Additional short-term training to staff in
this unit will be provided based on identified needs.
The HSRDP would continue IHSIP's support for the organization of an annual sector review and
planning exercises to bring together stakeholders active in the health sector to: (a) review sectoral
achievements (on the basis of agreed-upon indicators as well as previously planned activities and
expenditures); (b) discuss the updated, comprehensive annual and three-year rolling plans integrating the
proposed contributions of all stakeholders; and (c) adopt the Annual Operational Plan of the next year
(incorporating planned GOSL, donors and NGO activities in the Annual Operational Plan).
Health infornation collection and analysis. The project would support improvement of the various
information and monitoring systems at all levels, as well as development of capabilities at central level to
monitor project implementation and evaluate program performance. The project would finance: (a)
training and operating costs associated with the improvement of health information systems for central
and district-level staff; (b) operating costs for vital registration; and (c) selected studies, surveys, and
operational research to be determined. As soon as a DHS is available, in all likelihood not before
HSRDP's Mid-term review, the respective data will be immediately used in the health sector planning
and HSRDP evaluation.
- 38 -



Donor/NGO Coordination. Within the framework of MOHS's intention to develop a new NGO policy
with procedures and guidelines for effectively coordinating and monitoring the activities of NGOs, the
project would finance incremental staff salaries, as well as equipment and modest operating costs. The
project would support current work to involve and coordinate international and national NGOs and will
expand NGO participation in the decision-making strengthened with the opportunity of annual sector
review and planning exercises. In addition, the project would finance periodic meetings between MOHS
and its partners as well as the collection and publication of the annual inventory of donor and NGO
interventions in the health sector.
Human Resources Development. The project would support a series of actions to strengthen human
resources management and reduce the shortage of health service providers. These actions will be closely
coordinated with and complementary to ongoing efforts by WHO and AfDB and particularly by the
proposed EU-financed project. Specifically, HSRDP would strengthen the overall capacity of the Human
Resource Department to implement the Government's Public Service Reform Program, -focusing
specifically on providing technical and financial support for personnel management, manpower planning,
and training.
Personnel management. To improve the manual use of personnel records, the project would: (i) renovate
existing space to improve storage (particularly for retired personnel); (ii) provide the office with basic
furmiture (filing cabinets) and equipment (typewriters); and (iii) train staff in modern filing and
record-keeping techniques.
Manpower planning. The Project would strengthen manpower planning within MOHS by supporting the
formulation and subsequent updating of a comprehensive manpower development plan. In addition, the
project would finance implementation of measures and recommendations of the manpower plan; with
proposed activities for project funding to be identified and agreed-upon during the annual planning
exercise.
Human resource trainin . HRSDP will also provide support for strengthening training institutions,
introduce specialized or in-service training courses, or support other activities as appropriate.
Finance department. MOHS has successfully integrated financial management of GOSL funds and
development resources, and the accounting policies, systems, and procedures have been favorably
reviewed. The project would provide TA and overall operational support for the Finance Department to
improve its performance, carry out its tasks related to the FM of the IDA project and effect improvements
in financial management and control. In addition, the Department will receive assistance to computerize
financial management operations; complete installation of a system acceptable to the Bank, and train
staff.
Procurement unit. Project procurement within MOHS has been improved, but current procedures are
relatively rudimentary; recent reviews detected several problems, which have been resolved and the
systems judged adequate. To enhance the capabilities of the Procurement Unit of MOHS, the project
would: (a) strengthen existing systems and procedures for procurement planning and implementation;
and (b) extend these methods for use in carrying out procurement with GOSL funds. To ensure the
continued development of the Procurement Unit of MOHS, the Project would finance TA (procurement
and architect) and would support additional short-term training and improved working conditions for
existing staff (i.e., fumiture, equipment and operating costs). Consultant assistance is being provided to
help the unit prepare the PIP, the operations manual and the project procurement plan.
- 39 -



2.3. Promote development of the private sector and participation of civil society in the health sector
After a decade of war and civil unrest which weakened the country's public and private health sectors, the
project would seek to capitalize on the emerging pnvate sector and regulate its development in a manner
that will ensure its development and foster the provision of affordable, good quality, services. In addition
the project would build on the country's past institutional arrangements with the NGO community
(through the Donor/NGO Coordination Office) and on the successful experiences with religious NGOs
and (more recently) international NGOs. Finally, this component will promote incentives for private
health providers (focusing on not-for-profit providers) to develop and provide services in the four
districts supported by the project. It will also include contracting out of services to private providers and
support for a wider participation of the civil society in decision-making on health matters.
The project would support initiatives in five areas of particular importance to the MOHS: (a) public
sector/private sector consultation and development of regulation to foster quality and participation; (b)
contracting out; (c) incentives to encourage religious and other NGOs to provide services in under-served
areas; and (d) support for civil society participation in health matters.
Public sector/Private sector consultation. The project would finance consultations with the pnvate
Medical, Dental and Pharmaceutical Associations and meetings with the Traditional Medicine
Association to discuss ways for strengthening collaboration and registration and accreditation practices
(and other measures to improve quality). The meetings will be prepared and run with international and
national consultant support. Further to these consultations the project will support the issuance of
regulation to promote quality of services, control tariffs and encourage the development of private health
services and the involvement of private providers in the solving of public health issues.
Contracting out. Contracting out of clinical and non-clinical services with the private sector is already
envisaged by HSRDP in areas such as impregnated bed-nets, EEC services, and solid-waste collection by
communities. These areas have been costed in Component 1, but additional funding could be made
available in case-of insufficient funding. The project would also finance a study on contracting out (or
privatizing) other, selected public services (clinical or non-clinical), including drug procurement and
distribution, laboratory services, and laundry.
Incentives. Given the importance of attracting the return of religious and other NGOs to develop hospital
services in the under-served geographical areas, provide hospital services and organize equitable cost
recovery (i.e., protecting the access to services of the poor individuals) in the under-served geographical
areas, the project would finance specific incentives, which might include the provision of a drug stock to
cover the needs of the respective facility for one year.
Support to civil society participation in health matters. To encourage the establishment and functioning
of committees (at distnct and health facility levels) for involving the population, political and religious
leaders and, more generally, the civil society in the decision making on health matters, the project would
provide financial resources for their operations. -While the emphasis would be on the four IDA-financed
districts, the project would provide support to the PHC program of the MOHS to finance sirnilar
activities in the remaining districts. These efforts to increase the involvement of the user of services and
the civil society in the decisions made in the health sector will be synchronized with MOHS work to
regulate cost-recovery and will include mechanisms to protect vulnerable populations. HSRDP would
finance: (a) a feasibility study (to be carried out with consultant assistance and with the participation of
MOHS and distnct staff) of approaches for establishing local financing mechanisms; (b) testing and
consensus-building concerning these possible approaches (either by MOHS or through an NGO partner);
and (c) preparation of the guidelines to establish such a system. An equity fund to pay for the delivery of
- 40 -



services for the benefit of the poor population in one of the facilities rehabilitated with HSRDP support
will be tested. The project would also consider, at the time of the mid-term review, establishing two
prepayment arrangements on an experimental basis to finance health care for the population of one small
urban and one rural community and test their feasibility (in economic terms and from an equity
perspective).
- 41 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SIERRA LEONE: HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
' -..- --;-- -~,~- -        ;   --  - - .--  ..':.   - -.Local .....  ,' :- --Foreign- .' --  Total-
jPject CositBy Compmonentn':.- -US $fii11iii'; `US-nmilio' .             --
0.00         0.00         0.00
Total Baseline Cost                                      13.80         5.29        19.09
Physical Contingencies                                   0.28         0.29         0.57
Price Contingencies                                      1.27         0.22         1.49
Total Project Costs'             15.35        5.80         21.15
Total Financing Required             15.35         5.80        21.15
-s.t-;- ~ ~    ~     . -   - -  , . .............   '-Loc6al'' ' Foreign,-:' K'.' T'otl-1;,:
,, -,,ij  ,'* P'- rojelit Cost EylCateg-ory            sm.i-.    US ..lUS'$milon, F; Us $. !fin
Goods                                                      1.88          5.12         7.00
Works                                                      4.52          0.00         4.52
Services                                                   2.87          0.45         3.32
Training                                                   1.22          0.23         1.45
Operational costs                                          3.34          0.00         3.34
Unallocated                                                1.52          0.00          1.52
Total Project Costs     15.35          5.80        21.15
Total Financing Required     15.35          5.80        21.15
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 21 (US$m) Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is 0% of total
project cost net of taxes
-42-



Annex 4
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
SIERRA LEONE: HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Introduction:
Given that: (a) the proposed project will only invest in programmatic areas with well-documented cost
effectiveness ratios (such as primary health care and first referral health facilities, human resources
development, support to programs addressing important infectious disease epidemics e.g., Malaria and
TB); (b) empirical data from Sierra Leone to further explore the soundness of such spending are not
available; and (c) Annex 7 of the Staff Appraisal Report of the IHSIP (credit 2827-SL) has already
presented analysis on the cost effectiveness of this type of intervention (see the table at the end of this
annex), it was agreed that an economic analysis of this new project would not be required.
Instead a health sector Public Expenditure Review was carried out during project preparation. On the
one hand, the PER suggests that: (i) the ratio between salaries and non-salary expenditures compares
favorably with most other West African countries; and (ii) expenditures for the most cost effective
programs with large externalities such as PHC, infectious diseases control, and sanitation and prevention
in general were significant and compare well with other expenditures for secondary and tertiary care. On
the other hand, it shows that recent expenditures in the sector financed by the public budget and IDA
were very modest. While MOHS's recurrent non-salary expenditures as a share of the Government's total
non-salary budget increased from 4.8% in 1999 to 7.1% in 2001 this proportion remains low (and
projected to decline over the period 2002-2004); the proposed grant would establish a legal conditionality
to increase this share to an acceptable level (i.e., at least 10% starting in 2004). In addition, the PER
showed that, understandably, insufficient resources had been channeled to the districts and that little was
known in regard to the expenditures made by NGOs and donors. As a result of these findings it was
agreed with the Borrower to regularly monitor expenditures during the annual review meetings against
benchmarks established by the PER and consistent with the sector policy.
It was also recognized that until economic development takes off, the funding of the health sector will
largely depend upon donor funding and that the present project will not be sustainable until there is
substantial macroeconomic development and increase in revenues.
Consistenct of the project with Government and Bank Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) for
2002-2003.
The TSS presents the Bank's business plan to support the implementation of the Sierra Leone
Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy (I-PRSP) which was launched in September 2001. The
main objective of the TSS is to support the transition from post-conflict reconstruction to sustainable
poverty reduction. In the transitional phase, the focus on the TSS is on: (i) consolidating peace, (ii)
resettlement and reconstruction, (iii) improving governance, and (iv) maintaining a macroeconomic
framework conducive to economic recovery. In the medium-term Government will increasingly address
longer-term development issues to be elaborated in the full PRSP. The provision of health services in
rural and underserved areas is one priority of the TSS, and a means to help mitigate the risk of renewed
conflict and lay the foundation for sustained poverty reduction. In the case of renewed conflict and
political instability the HSRDP will operate in accordance with the 3 scenarios of the TSS (which
outline, among others, Bank's exit strategy in case of deterioration of the security and political situation
in the country).
- 43 -



Cost effectiveness considerations:
This project's main thrusts are:
(a) the prevention and management of conditions that represent major economic burdens in Sub-Sahara
Africa in general and in Sierra Leone in particular: malaria, and tuberculosis. The economic burden has
two major dimensions: (i) low productivity of the workforce affected; and (ii) the continuing cost of
treatment due to the lack of complementary efforts in cost-effective prevention.
The methods of prevention to be used in this project have favorable cost-effectiveness ratios documented
by the Bank. Secondary prevention - an efficient complement - is also part of the program. There are no
data that can be used to measure the precise disease burden of Sierra Leone or to assess cost-benefit in
the Sierra Leone context but there is ample literature documenting the cost effectiveness ratios of: the
Roll Back Malaria strategy; the DOTS strategy to curb TB.
Moreover, a recent survey conducted by the Central Statistics Office of Sierra Leone points to the
paramount role played by malaria in the disease burden of Sierra Leone. This disease has a significant
impact on the productivity of food-growing workers in rural areas, a major economic issue in
food-importing Sierra Leone.
Diarrheal disease also contributes significantly to the disease burden of Sierra Leone. There are related
economic losses due to the impairment of human capital through poor nutrition and related lesser
intellectual and physical development of children. The project through the support of cost-effective
sanitation will diminish the economic burden posed by this condition.
(b) the improvement of basic-health services in four districts that are among the poorest in Sierra Leone.
The services supported by the project are those designated by the Bank as a cost-effective package for
low-income countries. This basic package should reduce the burden of disease in the four selected
districts and through it improve food production and other economic activities.
(c) the strenatheninz of the capacity of MOHS to manage the existing health system by making more
efficient use of resources in the public and private sector. It also supports enhancements in MOHS's
ability to allocate and distribute resources to proven cost-effective services and to districts where
resources are likely to get the highest returns per dollar (Leone) spent. Further, the project aims to foster
the procurement and financial capacity of MOHS that will address bottlenecks and delays in secunng
service production from investments made.
(d) the mitigation of existing productivity issues in a number of areas that, according to the PER, need
immediate attention. This includes better financial management that will ensure more efficient use of
capital through a greater balance between capital and operating expenses. In view of the improving but
still poor fiscal capacity of the country, the project will make a contribution by ensuring a level of
operating expenses commensurate to the capital expenditure being undertaken by the project. The
proposed decentralization of decision making to district level and improved financial management at this
level should also improve efficiency in operations and fiscal accountability. In addition, the civil works
activities generated by the project should increase much needed employment and have a positive
multiplier effect on the economy.
Financial considerations:
Financial issues such as fees for health services (cost recovery) measures for ensuring financial
accountability and management of funds generated from cost recovery will only be addressed during
project implementation, although some studies and the revision of the sector policy will be carried out
- 44 -



during project preparation.
External audit reports and financial management analysis of the ongoing project implemented by the
MOHS have been unqualified; a project-specific financial management assessment was performed at
Pre-Appraisal; and the Bank is planning to conduct a Country Financial Accountability Assessment in
Sierra Leone. Finally, based on these findings and using funding from a PPF and from the grant itself
(through the HSRDP second component on capacity building), all key MOHS departments (including the
financial one) and all district health teams will be strengthened.
Fiscal impact:
A number of features of the project should have a beneficial impact on employment and worker
productivity leading to potential increases in government revenue. The PER also identified some
potential revenue sources that could be tapped to improve revenues and the fiscal balance. These include
a more systematic and equitable approach to fees for services and charges for drugs that currently
comprise rather arbitrary measures.
The project requires about US$1 million in counterpart funds over the five-year period of the project.
This represents about a 2% annual increment of MOHS current and capital expenditure funded from
domestic sources during 2001. Therefore, it will not impose a substantial additional burden on the
Government's fiscal situation.
However, there are some generic fiscal aspects that require attention. Some aspects of the project will
have to rely on public infrastructure that is currently inadequately financed.  Therefore, dunng
negotiations this issue was openly discussed to ensure that Government policy of improving the
budgetary situation of MOHS is reflected by the adequate and timely allocation of funds to MOHS. The
PER pointed to the need for increments in MOHS current expenditure commensurate with investments
being made. Although the project has made provision for operating expenses in relation to most of the
investments being made, the future sustainability of the facilities being funded by the project remains an
open question. The Bank's macroeconomic dialogue with the Government will be addressing this issue.
- 45 -



Cost Effectiveness Analysis
Health system level/NHAP         In NHAP       In       In BHA     In WDR93 Package
Prograu/                          (Y/N)      NHAP       Package          (Y/N)
Intervention or Service                       Core      and/or         Y-C Clin
Program    Priorities       Y-P Pub
(Y/N)      (Y/N)           and/or
WDR Priorities
TECHNICAL PROGRAMS
A. PRIMARY CARE
1.  Maternal and child health                         _          _
Anti-natal                  Y          Y          Y           Y-C
Delivery                    Y          Y          y           Y-C
Post-natal                  Y          Y          Y           Y-C
Micro-nutrient supply       Y          Y          Y           y-P
Famnly planning             Y          Y          V           Y-C
School health               V          Y          y           y.p
ORT                         Y          Y          Y           Y-C
Growth monitoring and       Y          V          Y           N
promotion
Breast feeding              Y          Y          Y           Y-P
2.  Common ailments
Treatment/Referral          Y 1-2      Y           1          2
Drugs/Supplies              Y          Y          V           V
First Aid/Referral          Y 1-2      Y           Y          2
Education on food selection  V         V           V          V-P
and preparation
Public and patient          Y          Y          Y           Y-P
information
3.  Communicable disease
control
Immunization
BCG                     V          Y           y          y
EPI                     Y          Y           Y          y
Yellow Fever            Y          Y           N          V
Hepatitis B             N          N3          N          Y
Preventive services
Onchocerciasis spray    Y          Y4          Y          N
TB Chemo.               Y          Y           ?
Blood bank safety       Y          Y3          Y5         N
AIDS/STDs               N          Y           Y          N
Curative services
TB                      Y          Y           Y          Y
Leprosy                 V          N6          N          N
STD                     Y          Y           Y          Y
ARI                     V          V           V          V
Helniinths              Y          Y           Y          Y
4.  Water sanitation
Well digging                           Y V        Y           N
Latrine construction        Y          Y          Y           N
Piped water system          Y7         N          N           N
Sewage system               Y6         N          N           N
Solid waste                 YI-2       N          N           N
-46 -



5.  Nutrition & dietetics
Nutrition education         Y           Y           Y          Y-P
Nutrition rehabilitation    Y           Y           Y          Y-C (0-5 yrs)
Diet therapy                Y           N8          N          N
Micro-nutrients
Vitamin A               N           N9          Y          Y-P
Iodine                  Y           Y           Y          Y-P
6. Health education an
communication
Community health education  Y           Y           Y          Y-Pio
Printed materials           Y           Y           ?          ?
Drama and songs             Y           Y           ?          ?
Mass media                  Y           Y           Y          y
School health education     Y           Y           Y          y
B. Secondary Care                Y           Y4         Y           N
General In-patient services  Y          Yl 1        Y          Y12
Mental health care          Y           Y13         N          N
Limuted care for chronic    Y           N           Y          Y
disease
TB treatment                Y           Y           Y          Y
SUPPORT OF PROGRAMS
A. Drugs and Supplies
Selection/Qualification     Y           Y          .y          Y-P17
Procurement                 Y           Y           Y          Y-P
Storage/Inventory           Y           Y           Y          Y-P
Distribution                Y           Y           Y           Y-P
Rational drug prescription  Y           Y           Y          y-p
and use
Cost recovery/Pricing       Y     _       Y         Y           Y-P
Quality control            Y__                      y          y.p
Drug regulation/Control     Y           Y           Y           Y-P
NGO, private sector         N           Y18         Yy -P
B.   National Food Environment
and Clinical Lab Service
Advice to clinicians and    Y           N           N           N
policy makers
Analysis of lab samples     Y           N           N           N
Training lab staff          Y           Y           N           N
Quality control of lab      Y           N           N           N
services
Promotion of safe blood     Y           Y19         Y20         N
Forensic analysis           Y           N           N           N
Regulation and enforcement  Y           N           N           N
C. Maintenance and Repair
(M&R)
DOH-level unit              Y           Y           Y           N
District unit               Y           Y           Y           N
Normns for M&R skills       N           Y           Y           N
Planning & M&R skills       N           Y           Y           N
D. Humnan Resource
Management (HRM)
Long-term planning          Y           Y           Y           N
- 47 -



Training plans                 Y _                      N            N
Coordinating mechanism for     Y            Y           Y            N
training/management
development
Development HRM capacity       Y            Y           Y            N
Employee relations                                                   N
strategy/pay
Computerized PMIS              _   _   _                N            N
Changing mix of staff          N            Y21         Y            Y
Redeploying staff              N            Y           y            y
Changing training curricula    N            Y           y            y
Leadership/Supervision         N            Y           Y            N
E.   PMISU
Training staff in info.        Y            Y           Y            N
management
Establish district M&E         Y            Y           Y            N
capacity, including at
hospitals
Operational research           Y            y           y            y
Collection /dissemunation      Y            N           N            N
info./reports
Assist in district health plans  Y          Y           Y            Y
Epidemiological data           N            Y           y            y
Monitoring/health finance      N            Y22         Y            Y
Support community              N            Y           Y            Y
management
I Basic trauma, malana, diarrhea, local infection.
2. Assessment, advice, alleviation of pain, treatment of infection and minor trauma.
3. Cost and feasibility in Sierra Leone to be reviewed
4 Maintenance after devolution
5. Not imply 100% testing.
6. To be further review for relative cost-effectiveness; not clear whether costs included in NHAP.
7. Responsibility of Department of Works.
8 Dietetics & diet therapy to be moved to secondary care, as non-care interventions.
9. To be reviewed for relevance in Sierra Leone
10. Health education and communication interventions were included in the WDR interventions for alcohol,
tobacco, and school health
11. Resources unlikely to permit more than 12 below.
12. Assessment, advice, alleviation of pain, treatment of infection and minor trauma, other treatment as resources
permit.
13. Mental health services at all levels merit further reflection, there is no consensus in the NHAP Task Force on
them.
14. Future needs for specialist staff merit careful review, as many existing staff are soon to retire.
15 Mental health services at all levels merit review.
16. Public health monitonng and surveillance, provided outside tertiary care
17. Drugs and supply services were included implicitly as par of the WDR essential care package.
18 Private sector roles in marketing and distribution of drugs merit review.
19. Quality control under lab services; promotion belongs under health education
20. May not be a lab service; NHAP foresees provision of safe blood BHA encourages promotion of safe blood,
but does see provision of safe blood as pnority intervention
21. Task Force endorsed a Y, but urges that the subject be approached with care
- 48 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SIERRA LEONE: HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
12/31
Y Year 1| Year 2     | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5| Year 6     | Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.2       3.5        4.3       5 6       3.1        0.9      0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.4       0.8        0.7       0.9       0.6       0.0
Total Project Costs          0.2       3.9        5.1       6.3       4.0        1.5      0.0
Total Financing              0.2       3.9        5.1       6.3       4.0        1.5      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  0.2        3.8       4.8        6.0       3.8       1.4       0.0
Government                0.0        0.1       0.3        0.3       0.2       0.1       0 0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0 0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Other                        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     0.2       3.9        5.1       6.3       4.0       1.5        0 0
Main assumptions:
References are for calender years. Each year is financed for 12 months with the exception of the first year
(2002) which is financed for six months with a PPF.
Totals may not tally due to rounding.
-49 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SIERRA LEONE: HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement Environment
1.     The last World Bank Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Sierra Leone was
carrmed out in 1985. The conflict that gripped the country over the last ten years eroded the effectiveness
of public sector management and destroyed the efficiency of public institutions as well public
procurement systems. The current procurement practices for goods, works and services as described in
the Finance Act 1963 are obsolete and are inadequate to meet the country's modem needs. A modem
public procurement system is required to ensure value for money, ensure adequate competition,
accountability and transparency in the procurement/selection process and to check against corruption
and fraudulent practice in procurement and contract execution.
2.     The Government of Sierra Leone (GOSL) with the assistance of private consulting firms has
conducted some studies of public procurement practices in the country. These reports cite (i) lack of a
comprehensive legal framework for public procurement, (ii) lack of a uniform and codified procurement
procedures and regulations, (iii) weak capacity of procurement staff, and (iv) loose institutional and
organizational arrangements for collective decision making in awarding of contracts, as major factors
contributing to weaknesses in the public procurement practices. Some of the unacceptable features
identified by Bank staff in the on-going Bank financed projects are (i) extensive use of sole source
method for selection of consultants, (ii) extensive and repetitive use of shopping procedures, often
including the same firms, (iii) unclear procedures for opening of bids and criteria for bid evaluation and
contract award, (iv) post contract negotiations, (v) weak internal control systems, and (vi)
over-centralization of procurement in the Central Tender Board, Ministry of Finance (CTB). With a few
exemptions, current regulations require that contracts for all Ministries, Departments and Agencies
estimated to cost above SLL 12,000,000 (about USD 6,000) must be procured by the CTB. The CTB is
responsible for preparation of bidding documents, advertising for bids, opening bids, evaluating bids and
consequently awarding contracts. The sheer volume of work as well as the limited capacity of the CTB
make the current arrangements unworkable. Government Ministries are already complaining about
prolonged processing delays for procurement carried out by the CTB. The role of the CTB should be
limuted mainly to reviewing procurement strategy and plans and bid evaluation reports for very large
contracts for compliance with agreed procedures. During Appraisal, GOSL agreed to waive its current
requirement of executive procurement by the CTB. The role of the CTB will be limited to the review of
evaluation reports and recommendations for the award of works and goods contracts exceeding USD
500,000; and consulting contracts exceeding USD 200,000 for firms and USD 100,000 for individuals. In
addition, the standard processing time for CTB clearance will not exceed 14 days. If no response is
received from CTB, within 14 days, approval will be deemed to have been given. The thresholds and
processing times may be reviewed when a new public procurement law has been enacted.
3.     The Government has realized the need for the country to review and reform its public
procurement practices. The World Bank has agreed to support public procurement reforms with funds
from the Transport Sector Project. Consultants will be selected to prepare (in consultation with
stakeholders in public and private sectors) Procurement Reform Proposals for submission to Government
possibly by mid 2003. It is expected that a new procurement code and law would be implemented latest
2004.
- 50 -



4.    In the absence of a national procurement code, the procurement procedures to be followed for
this project would will be fully described in the Project Operational Manual. A Project Operational
Manual exists for the predecessor project, the Integrated Health Sector Investment Project. The manual is
being updated for the new project.
Use of Bank Guidelines
5.     All works and goods financed under the IDA project would be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 and as revised in January
and August 1996, September1997 and January 1999. Consultants will be selected in accordance with the
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and as
revised September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
will include: (a) an explicit statement to bidders of the evaluation and award criteria; (b) national
advertising with public bid opening; (c) award to the lowest evaluated responsive and qualified bidder
and (d) foreign bidders would not be precluded from participation in NCB.
6.     The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for all ICB (and with appropriate
amendments for all NCB) for works and goods. The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (SRFP)
would be used for all consulting assignments. MOHS should ensure that each time the most current
version of the appropriate SBD/SRFP is used in bids/proposals. Less competitive bidding and selection
procedures should not be used as an expedient to by-pass more competitive methods and fractioning of
large procurements into smaller ones should not be done solely to allow the use of less competitive
methods. The detailed procedures to be followed will be described in the Project Implementation
Manual. Domestic preference will be allowed for ICB.
Advertising
7.     A General' Procurement Notice (GPN) for the project has already been published in the UN
Development Business as provided under the Guidelines. The GPN would be updated on a yearly basis
and would show all outstanding ICB and all consulting services estimated to cost USD 200,000 or more.
Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be required for contracts to be procured under ICB and NCB
procedures and for consultant contracts with an estimated cost of USD 200,000 or more to obtain
expressions of interest (EOI) prior to the preparation of the shortlist. SPNs will as (a minimum) be
published in a newspaper of wide national circulation. Consultancy contracts estimated to cost USD
200,000 or more will be advertised in Development Business. Sufficient time would be allowed (not less
than six weeks for ICB and not less than 30 days for NCB and not less than 14 days for EOI) to allow
adequate time for bidders and consultants to obtain documents and respond appropriately.
Procurement Capacity
8.     Procurement under the project will be managed by the Procurement Unit, Ministry of Health and
Sanitation. The mission carried out a procurement capacity assessment of the Ministry of Health and
Sanitation (MOHS) and a summary of the findings of the assessment is included. The main weaknesses
found were poor intemal control systems; deliberate fractioning of procurement; failure by management
to insist and ensure compliance with agreed procedures; and poor record keeping. MOHS has addressed
these issues and already there is marked improvement in procurement practice in MOHS. The Ministry is
staffed with capable professional staff who are knowledgeable in Bank procurement/consultants selection
policy and procedures having implemented the predecessor project, the Integrated Health Sector
Investment Project. The findings of the capacity assessment indicate a "medium risk" for this project.
- 51 -



9.     The project launch workshop will include a session on Bank/Public procurement. The focus will
be to reinforce the principles of good public procurement practice. Special emphasis will be placed on
the correct use of shopping procedures, ethics, corruption and fraudulent practice. Several officials in
MOHS have already participated in courses in procurement under Bank financed projects organized by
the Bank. Under the project provision has been made for at least four MOHS officials, including the
Assistant Procurement Manager and the Assistant Architect to attend the Bank's regional
procurement/consultants selection training courses at the Ghana Institute of Management and Public
Administration (GIMPA) or the East and Southern Africa Management Institute (ESAM). The Ministry
has initiated the process to select an individual consultant to fill the vacant position of Works Manager.
When the workload is heavy, MOHS may hire procurement agents (including UN Agencies) and/or
inspection agents to provide procurement support in accordance with paragraph 3.10 of the Procurement
Guidelines.
Procurement Plans
10.   MOHS will prepare an indicative Global Procurement Plan (GPP) for the whole project, a
Program of Work (POW) and a Detailed Procurement Plan (DPP) for the first year of the project showing
contract packages, and for each package its estimated cost, procurement method and processing times for
key activities till completion. The GPP and the DPP for the first year will be part of the Project
Implementation Manual which was completed before negotiations. The Manual will contain the project
workplans from which the procurement strategies and schedules would be derived. The plans will be
agreed with IDA. Two months prior to the start of each subsequent fiscal year, MOF will submit up-dated
versions of the GPP, and the annual POW and DPP in respect of the following year. Each quarter, MOHS
will submit to the Bank a procurement monitoring report and a contract expenditure and progress report
as part of the Financial Management Report (FMR).
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
11.   Procurement of Works    and   Goods  and  the  selection  of consultants, including
procurement/selection planning will be the responsibility of the Procurement Unit of MOHS. The
Procurement Unit will ensure that any procurement is carried out in accordance with the procurement
strategy and plan formally agreed with IDA.
Scope of procurement and procurement methods
12.   Works (estimated to cost USD 5.0m) will consist of construction/rehabilitation/maintenance for
the restoration of essential health services in 4 district hospitals, 12 health centers and various health
posts. Works contracts estimated to cost USD 500,000 or more will be procured using ICB procedures.
When the estimated cost for the works contract is less than USD 500,000 or more than USD 30,000 the
method of procurement will be NCB. Very small contracts estimated to cost less than USD 30,000
equivalent may be procured by way of soliciting quotations through written invitations from not less than
three qualified contractors. Registration/Classification of contractors may be used to identify contractors
for such very small contracts. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, basic
specifications, the required completion date, a simple form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and
relevant drawings [where applicable]. In all cases the award of contract shall be made to the contractor
who offers the lowest price for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to
successfully complete the contract.
13.   Goods, Equipment & Printing (estimated to cost USD 7.Om ) will consist of health sector goods
- 52 -



(pharmaceuticals, vaccines, contraceptives, nutritional supplements and medical & support equipment),
ambulances, vehicles, computers and office equipment, and printing of EEC materials and various health
forms. To the extent possible, goods that could be procured under one supplier would be grouped into
contract packages, and packages estimated to cost the equivalent of USD 100,000 or more would be
procured under ICB procedures. Procurement of goods packages estimated to cost more than USD
30,000 but less than USD 100,000 would be procured using NCB procedures. Goods packages estimated
to cost less than USD 30,000 would be procured by shopping on the basis of comparison of quotations
from at least three eligible and qualified suppliers or from LAPSO where appropriate. Requests for such
quotations will include a clear descnption and quantity of the goods; incidental services required (if any);
specifications and warranty requirements; requirements for delivery time and point of delivery as well as
the basis of bid. The Procurement Unit should ensure that prices obtained are reasonable and represent
the best value for money. Goods including health sector goods may be procured from or through United
Nations Agencies in accordance with paragraphs 3.9 and 3.10 of the Procurement Guidelines. Health
sector goods estimated to cost less than USD 100,000 may, with the concurrence of IDA, be procured
through LIB procedures in accordance with paragraph 3.2 of the Procurement Guidelines.
14.    Software, spare parts and accessories which are of proprietary nature may with the concurrence
of IDA be procured under contracts negotiated directly with the manufactures/suppliers or their
authonzed agents.
15.    Consulting Services and Training (estimated to cost USD 5m) will consist of, engineering and
architectural services for the design and construction supervision of health facilities, vanous studies and
technical assistance as well as workshops and group discussions. As a rule, consulting firms for all
assignments will be selected though Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology.
Assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of USD 200,000 or more would be advertised for EOI in
Development Business (UNDB) and in at least one newspaper of wide national circulation prior to the
preparation of the shortlist. In addition, EOI for specialized assignments may be advertised in an
intemational newspaper or magazine. The shortlist of firms for assignments estimated to cost less than
USD 100,000 may be made up entirely of national consultants if at least three qualified firms are
available at competitive costs in the country. However, foreign consultants who wish to participate
should not be excluded from consideration. Consultant services estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of US$ 100,000 may be contracted using Least-Cost-Selection (LCS) or Selection Based on Consultants'
Qualifications (SBCQ) procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.1, 3.6 and 3.7 of the Consultants
Guidelines. Auditors would be selected using LCS procedures. In case of assignments requiring
individual consultants, the selection will follow the procedures stipulated in Section V of the Consultants
Guidelines.
16.    Training programs and workshops would be packaged in the project's workplans and budget and
items therein procured using appropriate methods.
IDA Review
17.    All works and goods contracts estimated to cost USD 100,000 or more will be subject to the
Bank's prior review in accordance with the procedures in Appendix I of the Procurement Guidelines. All
contracts awarded on basis of direct contracting or sole source basis will require prior review and
clearance of the Bank.
- 53 -



18.    All Direct Contracting and Single-Source Selection will be subject to Bank prior review.
Consultancy contracts with firms with estimated value of USD 100,000 or more, and consultancy
contracts with individuals estimated value of USD 50,000 or more will be subject to pnor review by the
Bank in accordance with the procedures in Appendix I of the Consultants Guidelnes.
19.    All training programs, seminars, workshops etc. would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
20.    Contracts which are not subject to prior review will be selectively reviewed by the Bank during
project implementation and will be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to
the relevant Guidelines.
Contract Management and Expenditure Reports
21.    As part of the FMR, MOHS will submit contract management and expenditure information in
quarterly reports to IDA.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
,, 1                        ; ; -- - ' S  FP6ocur irentMethod  ' -
- Expeiditure,Categor   :CoBs t-                                             F -   '   l o_ t
_    _y_ _ _ _N__  _      FC;-                                T tall C s
1. Works                            3.07           1.85          0.19         0.00        5.11
(2.76)          (1.65)       (0.17)       (0.00)      (4.58)
2. Goods                           4.02            0.70          1.62         0.00        6.34
(4.02)          (0.50)       (1.56)       (0.00)      (6.08)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          5.32         0.00        5.32
Consultants and Training           (0.00)         (0.00)        (5.32)       (0.00)      (5.32)
4. Operating Costs                  0.00           0.00          2.95         0.00        2.95
(0.00)          (0.00)       (2.67)       (0.00)      (2.67)
5. Unallocated                     0.00            0.00          1.50         0.00        1.50
(0.00)          (0.00)       (1.35)       (0.00)      (1.35)
Total                            7.09            2.55         11.58        0.00       21.22
(6.78)          (2.15)       (11.07)       (0.00)     (20.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
-54 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
*                     : 2 -   - ~ ~ '  r .t, Q^-: - :- -!  ~   /     ;  - . ,~i Se e toi^Mto -   - -E::_.
C                             =-     -    . a     ,           - u I ta n      :',-
.Expenditure Categor . -iCBS . ,QBS, -   SFB.- -CS    C C     Other         r,til Cost
A. Firms              1.05    0.00     0.00    0.08    0.17     1.62   0.00      2.92
(1.05)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.08)   (0.17)  (1.62)  (0.00)   (2.92)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00      2.40
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (2.40)  (0.00)   (2.40)
Total  1.05    0.00    0.00    0.08     0.17    4.02    0.00      5.32
(1.05)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.08)  (0.17)  (4.02)  (0.00)    (5.32)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 55 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
. i- Cotact Value                                              u , - -  ,Cotra ject to,
'.'- Threshold    .-    'IP r- ,t                 ' :PilorReview
1E.xoek itdfeate-, ory- '-
1. Works                 US$500,000 or above            ICB                     All
>= US$ 30,000 - <US$            NCB             Contracts above US $
500,000                                         100,000
Below US$ 30,000        Price Comparison             None
All values          Direct contracting        All contracts
2. Goods                US$ 100,000 or above      ICB/UN Agency             All contracts
Equipment & Printing
>=US$ 30,000 - <US$     NCB/LIB/UN Agency             All LIB
100,000
Below US$ 30,000     Shopping/UN Agency/LIB          None
All values          Direct contracting        All contracts
3. Services             US$ 100,000 or above,          QCBS                 All contracts
firms
Below US$ 100,000, firms   QCBS/LCS/SBCQ                None
US$ 50,000 or above,         Individual            All contracts
individuals
Below 50,000, individuals     Individual                None
All values            Single source            All contracts
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$m 5
20%
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 56 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
xExpendlture Cateoory.                                                C IP-i%oyntrin-USSmii'on  _ ;   FiicinPr ce  e
1. Civil Works                             4.58                        90 %
2. Goods and Equipment                     2.78               100% (foreign expenditures)
________________________________  0.99             90%   (local expenditures)
4. Pharmaceuticals                         2.31                        100%
5. Consultants                             3.65                        100%
5. Training                                1.67                        100%
6. Operating Costs                         2.67                         90%
7. Unallocated                             1.35                        100%
Total Project Costs                        20.00
Total                                      20.00
Explanatory Notes:
(a) the tern 'foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of
the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower.
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services suppliedfrom the territorv of the Borrower.
(c) the term "operating costs" means non-salary operating costs at both central and local levels and are
expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office
supplies, expenses related to communications and utilities, maintenance of vehicles and office equipment,
fuel, spare parts, office rentals, travel and supervision.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
22.    Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation, except for items of
expenditures under contracts and purchase orders below US$ 100,000 equivalent each, for works, goods
and consulting firms, and US$ 50,000 for consultant services (individuals), training and incremental
costs for which disbursements would be based on statement of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting
documentation for SOEs would be retained by the MOHS and where applicable its district health offices
of the Government of Sierra Leone for review by IDA missions and external auditors.
Special account:
23.    To facilitate disbursements, one Special Account for the Ministry of Health and Sanitation would
be established, and operated in US$ at a commercial bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
IDA. Upon Project effectiveness, a sum of US$500,000 would be deposited by the IDA into this
account. Further deposits would be made into the account, against withdrawal applications supported by
appropriate documentation.
Financial Management Assessment Report
Executive Summary
24.    The Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS) has previous experience in the management of
-57 -



IDA funds, in the implementation of the Integrated Health and Sanitation Project. The Ministry has a
component under the Sierra Leone HIV/AIDs Response Project (SHARP) and is expected to manage its
own special account. During the preparation of SHARP, the Bank conducted a financial management
assessment of the Ministry. The assessment, which was comprehensive, was however limited to the
operations at the head office, and did not involve any assessment at any province or district health
offices. Given that Sierra Leone is now emerging from conflict, we are unable to extend our assessment
to the district/province health offices.
25.    The assessment for this project was therefore limited to reviewing our earlier assessment
documentations, records and reports under the SHARP project, and ensuring that all arrangements agreed
were still valid and where need be recommend changes. No new internal control questionnaire was
administered, since one had been issued and reviewed less than one year ago.
26.    MOHS's organizational chart for the finance division was reviewed in detail. The approval
systems within the Ministry, accounting and financial procedures manuals, the job descriptions of
accounting and finance staff and previously completed internal control questionnaires were all reviewed
in detail.
27.    The finance unit of the MOHS is headed by a Finance Director who has responsibility for all
financial management issues in the Ministry. He is assisted by a deputy responsible for management
accounting and project accounts. They are both assisted by a principal accountant in charge of financial
accounting. The Director and his two key assistants have several years experience in financial and
accounting work including Bank financed projects. They are currently managing the on-going Integrated
Health Sector Improvement Project (IHSIP) and have responsibility for the health component of the
SHARP project.
28.    The procedures for processing financial transactions, which includes the stages of approvals, and
the required support documents have all been documented in a system chart. These procedures were
found to be adequate for the on-going IHSIP, but will need some updates and improvements to ensure
adequate coverage for the SHARP and the new Health Sector Reconstruction and Development projects.
29.    Under IHSIP the Ministry has been preparng the PMR manually through the use of spreadsheets
(excel), which is very tedious. These reports have been simplified and changed to Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMR) and the contents and formats were agreed during appraisal and would be included in the
negotiation documents.
Conclusion
30.    The MOHS has the accounting system documented in a manual, trained and experienced
accounting staff, adequate reporting systems and auditing arrangements and have previous experience in
managing Bank funded project. Based on the assessment and all information gathered, the financial
management system of the MOHS, meets the minimum requirements of the bank.
31.    However there is the need to modify and update their accounting manual and take steps to
automate the preparation of the FMRs under the new project through the use of a reliable and robust
accounting software. As a result of an agreed action plan with the MOHS, their accounting manual was
updated and the preparation of the FMRs automated.
- 58 -



Summary of Project Description
32.    The project's overall development objective is to help restore the most essential functions of the
health delivery system. The project will also help achieve the more specific objectives of:
(a) Increasing access to affordable essential health services by improving primary and first referral health
facilities in four districts of the country.
(b) Improving the performance of key technical programs responsible for coping with the country's major
public health problems.
(c) Strengthening health sector management capacity to improve efficiency and further decentralize
decision-making to the districts.
(d) Supporting development of the private health sector and involvement of the civil society in
decision-making.
33.    These objectives are expected to be achieved through 2 main components;
I)     Restonng Essential Health Services. This component will: (a) provide assistance to four priority
districts to deliver adequate health services and (b) support three priority technical programs (TB,
malaria and sanitation) to improve their performance and control infectious diseases of high public health
importance in Sierra Leone; and
ii)    Strengthening Public and Private Sector Capacity. This component will enable the HSRDP to
provide support: (a) in all the districts of the country, the decentralization process by (i) strengthening the
District Health Management Teams (DHMT) and creating capacity for appropriate planning,
management, financial management and supervision and (ii) improving the decision making process; (b)
five key support programs of the MOHS (i.e., Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, Financial
Management, Procurement, Donor & NGO Coordination and Human Resources Development) to
improve efficiency and improve the administrative performance at the central level and at the periphery;
and (c) activities to strengthen the private sector and the participation of the civil society in the health
sector.
Country Accountability Issues
34.    The Bank has carried out a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Sierra
Leone.   The report documents the public financial management system  architecture, identifies
weaknesses and makes recommendations to address them. The work was completed and issued to the
Government of Sierra Leone in March 2002. The summary risk analysis is based on this work and our
FM assessment of the Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS).
Summary of Risk Analysis
Risk                        Risk Rating    Risk Mitigation Measure
Inherent Risks:
Country
a) Weakness in legislative scrutiny M
of Budget and Audited Accounts.
Chairman of Parliamentary
Finance committee (Budget) is the
same as Chairman of Public
accounts commnittee (audit).
- 59 -



b) Weakness in the Banking sector S             Bulk processing will be done at the HQ and
leading to large movement of cash                lk troctins       at the    HQ and
from the center to the provinces                limit transactions at the provincial level to
with the risks associated with cash             mnor activities through petty cash.
holdings. Most banks are located
in the capital, Freetown.
c) Inadequacy of remuneration of
public sector financial staff.  S               If there is need for it, the project will
supplement by recruiting and funding
qualified staff to address this weakness.
Overall Inherent Risks:       S
Implementing Entities:
a) Adequate formal rules, but in
practice they are not strictly  M               Intensify monitoring and review processes.
followed.
b) Inadequacy of trained and
qualified staff.               M                The present staff are paid under the existing
project and the new project continues to
finance cost of the qualified staff recruited
to help manage the project.
Control Risk:
Accounting system and Procedures M              The project will use PPF funds from IDA to
Manual not Updated                              develop and update financial accounting
manual and improve FM systems required
under the project.
Funds Flow
Delays in accounting for funds sent S           Initial advance for Imprest accounting
to the Provinces.                               system will be funded from GOSL
counterpart funds. Second and subsequent
releases, from the SA, will be based on
receipt of accounting returns from the
provinces as outlined in the revised funds
flow arTangements.
Internal Audit
MOHS has an intemal audit (IA)  M               The project will strengthen the IA through
department whose functions are                 the development of audit manuals (including
mostly limited to pre-auditing. It              audit programs etc) and training of staff.
needs modernization to add value.
External Audit
It is not expected that the Audit report will
MOHS had previously submitted  M                be late, but to ensure its timely submission,
their audit reports on time.                   the selection of independent auditors would
be an effectiveness condition.
Information Systems
Accounting system at MOHS is not                MOHS will be assisted to computerize its
- 60 -



computerized.                              accounting system.
All reports are done manually with S
the help of spreadsheet.
Overall Control Risk.       M
MOHS Accounting System
35.    MOHS has previous experience in the management of Bank funded project and is presently
managing the Integrated Health Sector Investment Project (lHSIP). The financial management
arrangement under this project will be strengthened and used to manage this new project. The Director
of Finance has overall responsibility for financial management in the MOHS, and will extend to the new
project. He is assisted by two key deputies; a deputy responsible for management accounting and a
manager in charge of financial accounting. The Director and his assistants are professionally qualified
accountants with several years of experience and are presently responsible for the on-going IHSIP.
36.   In addition to these three key staff, the finance division has a pool of accounting staff, mostly
from the controller and accountant general's department, with varying levels of qualifications, including
HIND, and degree holders.
37.    The MOHS will operate a cash accounting system in line with GOSL accounting practices, with
additional information on all outstanding commitments at any point in time. The finance division will
operate a centralized payment system at the head office. All major payments under the projects will be
processed and paid for at the head office, with provisional offices' activities limited to the use of cash
imprest for operating expenses. The system and the procedures to be adopted will be reflected in the
revised accounting manual which will detail out the administrative set up of the finance division, the
accounting system of the MOHS, job description of the staff and the budgeting arrangements.
38.    The accounting system is manually maintained, with the aid of spread sheets and other manual
record books. The Ministry has indicated its willingness to computerize its system. The project will
provide some resources to help the Ministry undertake this task. The Bank will review the TOR for the
assignment, and advise the ministry to have an effective computerized system for its accounting and
financial functions.
Funds Flow Arrangements
39.   It has been agreed that the funds under the project will be centrally managed, and all major
payments will be effected from the head office. However there will be some funds sent to the
participating provinces for their operating activities. There will therefore be no elaborate flow of funds
arrangements under the project, and releases will only be limited to monthly or quarterly imprest cash
allocations.
40.    Based on the provinces operating cost budget for activities under the project, the center will
release funds from the project accounts (i.e counterpart funds allocated to the project) to each province to
meet its operating cost activities for a quarter. The quarter funds will become the ceiling of the imprest
for the province.
41.    The provinces will submit monthly returns to the head office, for any amount spent for
re-imbursement.  The monthly returns will consist of statement of all eligible expenditures, a
- 61 -



reconciliation statement fully reconciled with the original amount received, and a copy of the bank
statement. The statements should be reviewed and signed by the head of MOHS at the province and the
accounts officer. The head office finance division will review the statements to ensure that all listed
expenditures are eligible, and reimburse the province for all eligible expenditures.
Auditing Arrangements
42.   Independent and qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank would carry out the audit of the
project. The selection of auditors shall be on competitive basis in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
and would be in place by effectiveness of the project. There will be one audit required under this project.
43.    The project financial statements, SOEs and the special account would be audited by the selected
independent auditors. The auditors' reports and opinions in respect of each of these statements of
accounts would be furnished to the World Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Auditors will be expected to comment on the reliability of the FMIRs which have been prepared by
project management in each particular year and whether they are supported by the underlying records.
Financial Monitoring Reports
44.    The Bank has introduced a new initiative, the Financial Management Irutiative (FINM). FRNMI
requires projects to prepare quarterly financial monitoring reports (FMRs) in the areas of finance,
procurements including contract details and project progress.
45.    These FMRs which will be prepared on quarterly basis and submitted to the Bank, will consist
of;
i)    sources and uses of funds;
ii)    uses of funds by project components and activities;
iii)   contract monitoring reports;
iv)    Procurement report;
v)     Physical progress;
46.    The contents and formats of these reports were discussed and agreed during appraisal were part
of the documents for negotiations. Although the MOHS is capable of producing such reports manually,
steps were taken to automate it to make the data more reliable and acceptable. The chart of accounts and
coding system to be put in place allows a meaningful summarization of transaction and consequently
provide these reports.
Disbursement Arrangements
47.    The proceeds of the Project would be disbursed over a four year period. A period of four months
after closing date would be allowed to make disbursements for expenditures incurred until the closing
date of the Project.
Use of Statement Of Expenditures (SOlEs)
48.    Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation, except for items of
expenditures under contracts and purchase orders below US$ 100,000 equivalent each, for works, goods
and consulting firms, and US$ 50,000 for consultant services (individuals), training and incremental
costs for which disbursements would be based on statement of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting
- 62 -



documentation for SOEs would be retained by the MOHS and where applicable its distnct health offices
of the Government of Sierra Leone for review by IDA missions and external auditors.
Special Account (SA)
49.    To facilitate disbursements, one Special Account for the Ministry of Health and Sanitation would
be established and operated in US$ at a commercial bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
IDA. Upon Project effectiveness, a sum of US$ 500,000 would be deposited by the IDA into this
account. Further deposits would be made into the account against withdrawal applications supported by
appropriate documentation.
Action Plan
Pre-Negotiations Actions
Action Step                 Due Date      Responsibility or     Action
Action By        Completed
1.      Agree on TOR for revising the MOHS  October 2, 2002  Director of Finance  Yes-Action
Accounting Manual                                   (DOF) -MOHS          Completed
2.     Consultant to revise Manual hired  October 7, 2002   DOF -MOHS             Yes-Done
OcL 3, 2002
3.     Draft revised Manual submitted to the  November 5, 2002  DOF - MOHS          Yes
MOHS
4.     Draft revised Manual submitted to the  November 10, 2002  DOF - MOHS         Yes
World Bank                                                               Nov. 13, 2002
5.     World Bank review comments sent to  November 15, 2002  FMS - AFTFM           Yes
MOHS                                                                     Nov. 22, 2002
6.     Finalized Revised Manual submitted to  November 22, 2002  DOF - MOHS         Yes
MOHS                                                                     Nov. 25, 2002
7.     RFP for the selection of Auditors submnitted October 5, 2002  DOF - MOHS     Yes
to the Bank                                                               Oct. 15, 2002
8.     Auditors selected                  November 29, 2002  DOF - MOHS
9       Agree on Formats and Contents of  October 11, 2002   WB (TTL) and           Yes
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR)                  MOHS (DOF)          Oct. 15, 2002
- 63 -



Other Actions Required
Action Step                  Due Date       Responsibility or   Date Action
Action By         Completed
10.     TOR for Computerization of MOHS    October 21, 2002    DOF - MOHS        Completed
accounting system agreed
11.     P   for Computerization of accounting  October 28, 2002  DOF - MOHS      Completed, Bank
ystem submnitted to Bank.                                                has issued its No
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __'_   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  O b je c tio n
12.    Bank issues its No Objection on RFP.  November 1, 2002  TTL               Completed
Jan. 22, 2002
13.    MOHS request for Proposals from Short  January 27, 2002  DOF - MOHS       NYD
listed firms.
14.      OHS Evaluates Technical Proposals  February 10, 2002  DOF - MOHS        NYD
om firms and evaluati  on report
submitted to the Bank.
15.    Bank's No Objection issued to MOHS.  February 17, 2002  TTL               NYD
16.    MOHS Evaluates financial Proposals,  February 26, 2003  DOF - MOHS        NYD
negotiates with the combined 1st (top)
anked firm and submits evaluation report
lus minutes of negotiations and draft
contract to Bank for No Objection
17.     Bank issues No Objection for award and  March 1, 2003.  TTL              NYD
signing of contract.
-64 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SIERRA LEONE: HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Piofrc,tScheule        -.       -;-- -   . .,    Pianned.--- 4. f i-:!- *- p - ,  --Actuj.--
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     15
First Bank mission (identification)            10/18/2001                  10/18/2001
Appraisal mission departure                    09/22/2002                  11/06/2002
Negotiations                                   10/22/2002                  12/02/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  01/15/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS)
Preparatlon assistance:
A PHRD Grant (TF026871 and TF026794) from the Japanese Government of US$ 400,000 was received
and used for consulting services to conduct studies such as: (a) Social Assessment; (b) Project
Implementation Plan/Operational Manual; (c) Environmental Assessment; (d) Public Expenditures
Review for the Health Sector; (e) Health Facility Inventory; (f) Health Sector Priority Issues and
Strategic Approaches; (g) Human Resources Assessment; (h) Update of the Health Sector Policy; (i)
National and District Health Plans and a Three-Year-Rolling Plan.
This grant was of particular importance as it provided the resources to quickly launch essential
studies and activities necessary for project design and preparation. All planned outputs were
completed and consulting performance was successful. Reports produced were of good quality.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Astrid Helgeland-Lawson           Task Team Leader
Minneh Kane                       Legal Advisor
Kofi Awanyo                       Procurement Specialist
Fred Yankey                       Financial Management Specialist
Lawrence Barat                    Infectious Disease Specialist
Barbara B. Machado                Language Program Assistant
Sheila Braka-Musiume              Legal Advisor
David Webber                      Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Roxanne Hakim                     Anthropologist
Irene Xenakis                     Operations Advisor
John May                          Sr. Reproductive Health Specialist
Sergiu Luculescu                  Consultant - Public Health Specialist
Peter Bacharach                  Consultant - Planning Specialist
Christian Hurtado                Consultant - Implementation Specialist
Jo Martins                        Consultant - Economist
John Tommy                        Consultant - Environmental Health Specialist
Haddy Jatou Sey                   Consultant - Anthropologist
- 65 -



James Monday                      Consultant - Resettlement Policy/Sanitation
Anne M. Pierre-Louis              Lead Health Specialist
-66-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SIERRA LEONE: HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.    Identification Mission Aide Memoire, May 2001.
2.     Preparation Mission Aide Memoire, October 2001.
3      Pre-appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, April 2002.
4.     Technical Mission Aide-Memoire, October 2002.
4.     Draft Project Implementation Plan, April 2002.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.     Financial Management Assessment Reports (2002)
2.     Procurement Capacity Assessment (2002)
C. Other
Social Assessment on Health in Sierra Leone (2002)
Sierra Leone: Health Sector Environmental Assessment (2002)
Sierra Leone: Public Expenditures Review (2002)
Survey Report on the Status of Women and Children in Sierra Leone at the End of the Decade
(2002-MICS1I)
Sierra Leone Resettlement Policy Framework (2002)
HSRDP Project Implementation Plan (2002)
Institutional Capacity (DIFD) (2002)
Draft Health Facility Inventory (2002)
Draft Human Resources Assessment (2002)
Draft Health Sector Policy (2002)
MICS II (2002)
*Including electronic files
- 67 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SIERRA LEONE: HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
12-Dec-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                      disbursements
Project ID  FY   Purpose                                IBRD        IDA       SF      GEF    Cancel   Undtsb     Orig  Frm Revd
P074642      2002 ERRCII                                     000     5000      000       000      000     2330    -1016      000
P073883      2002 HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT                  000     1500      000       000      000     1614      103      000
P070201     2001 Second Public Sector ManaQement Support     000      3 50      0 00     000      000      2 28     0 90     0 00
P040649      2000 COMIMUNrY REINTEGRATION & REHAiNLrrA       000     2500       000      000      000     3477      1 11     000
P002420      1998 TRANSPORT SECTOR PRO                       000     3500       000      000      000      449      778      239
P002422      1996 HEALTH SECTOR                              000     20 00      000      0 00     000      0 33     2 44     -6 78
P002428      1995 URBAN WATERSUPPLY                          000     3600       000      000      000      014      329      000
Total       000     184 50     0 00   000        000      61 45     6 39    -4 39
SIERRA LEONE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Commnitted                            Disbursed
IlFC                                  IFC
FY Approval            Company                            Loan    Equity     Quasi     Panic     Loan    Equity     Quasi    Pantic
2001                   MSICIH 11 Sierra                    4.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0 00      0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:             4.00      0.00      0.00      000       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval           Company                                Loan      Equity      Quasi       Panic
Total Pending Comnumtent:              O.M0        0.00       0.00        0.00
- 68 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SIERRA LEONE: HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                 Sierra  Saharan     Low-
Leone     Africa   Income     Development dlamond-
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                      5 1       674     2,511                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   130       470      430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    068        317     1,069
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Populabon (%)                                        2 2       2 5       19                                     G
Labor force (I%)                                     2 3       2 6       2 3     GNI                            Gross
per                           pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                            capita           ,,'        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)              37        32       31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      39        47       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             154        91       76
Child malnutntion (% of children under 5)                                             Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  28        55       76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                            37       37
Gross pnmary enrollment (%of schoolage population)    52        78       96                  SieraLeone
Male                                                61        85       103                 Low-income group
Female                                              42        72       88
KEY ECONOMIC RATiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratlos,
GDP (US$ billions)                           1 1    0 78      064       068
Gross domestic Investment/GDP               19 1     9 3       8 0       7 9
Exports of goods and services/GDP          23 0     22 7       17 3     171                     Trade
Gross domestic savIngs/GDP                           8 5       -8 4    -12 3
Gross nabonal savings/GDP                            5 0       -1 8     -7 6
Current account balance/GDP                -16 6     -1 2     -10 7     -17 2    Dorr'iS           i
Interest payments/GDP                       0 9      0 2        11               savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                              53 0    154 5     184.9    1736      savings                     I   t
Total debt service/exports                  421      6 3       38 2     63 9
Present value of debVGDP                                      124 9    109 5
Present value of debt/exports                                709 3     625 0
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01    2000       2001  2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 0 4     -4 3     3 8        5.4      66             -Siera Leone
GDP per capita                     -1 7     -6 5      1 8       3 1      4 3                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       0 5    -34 8     7 0       13 2     22 1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agricufture                                 343      45 1      47 3     501      10
Industry                                    18 2    27 7       33 6     29 8 o
Manufacturing                              5 7      3 7       4 7       5 0            9e                   00    01
Services                                   47 5     27 2       19 0     201      10iV
Pnvate consumption                         90 7     81 9      93 8      951      2-
Generalgovemmentconsumption                  70      96        146      172               -GDI            ti GDP
Imports of goods and servIces              39 7     23 6       33 4     37 3
(average annual growth)                 1981-91  1991-01      2000     2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agnculture                                 -0 6      -2 6       2 2      3 8     100lo
Industry                                    01       -41       51        5 6     s0e    
Manufacturing                                       6 9
Services                                    -57      -54       40        51       o,s,
Pnvate consumption                          -2 0     -19       10 4     10 0
General govemment consumption               -5 1     -4 2     41 3      27 9    -100
Gross domestic Investment                            -0 6      3 0       5 0            -     Ex,orts    e    rImports
Imports of goods and services               -2 2    -15 1     85 0      61 3
Note 2001 data are preirrinary estimates
The diamonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average It data are missing, the diamond Arli be incomrplete
- 69 -



Sierra Leone
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Inflation
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                      40
Consumer prices                            16 7    102 7      -0 9      3 0     30
Implicit GDP deflator                       8 7    128 8       6 2      6 1     20
Govemment finance                                                               10
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                              0 .
Currentrevenue                                      112       182      178      -10    Be    97    98    99   00    01
Current budget balance                              -5 8      -4 5      -7 1           -G    DP detlator '-0CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                            -10 4     -10 6     -12 3
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1981    1991      2000      2001     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         147      176        75       78     40
Rutile                                              72
Diamonds (recorded)                                 32        10       21     300
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                         317      158       161      303     200
Food                                                53        66       72     100
Fuel and energy                                     26        29       36
Capital goods                                       38        18       22       0
Export pnce Index (1995-100)                         90        86        87          as   9s   07   e8   Be   00   0
Import price index (1995--100)                       93         93       92                 0 Exports    Oirrports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                             97        93       94
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             1981     1991     2000      2001     Currenl account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and servlces               163     244        110      116      o
Imports of goods and services               349     226        212      252
Resource balance                           -186       18      -102      137
Net Income                                  -28      -60       -18      -20
Net current transfers                        29      34         52       40     -10
Current account balance                    -185       -9       -68     -117    -15
Flnancing Items (net)                       116        9        91      140
Changes In net reserves                      69        1       -23      -24     20 -
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ mIllions)       1 8      10        44       52
Conversion rate (DEC, locaUUSS)              1.2   2953     2,0921   2,200 0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                                  Conipositlon of 20D1 debt (USS mIll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        591    1,205     1,176     1,174
IBRO                                       13       10         0        0                   F S G 30
IDA                                        31       81       354      552
Total debt service                           69       15        43       76
IBRD                                        2        1         0        0         E 362
IDA                                         0        1         4        5
Composition of net resource flows                                                                 .          4
Official grants                            41       34        53       73
Officlalcreditors                          18       14        69      113
Privag creditors                           12        0         0       -1n t  4 32
Foreign diredinvestment                     4        3         2        2           D 1 
Portfolio equity                            0        0         0        0
C 120
World Bank program
Commitments                                29        0        55       54     A - IBRD                   E - Eilaieral
Disbursements                               2        0        70       70     B - IDA   D - Other rnultilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                        1        0         2        2     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                   1        0        68       67
Interest payments                           1        1         2        3
Net transfers                               0       -1        66       65
ueveiopmenr -conomics
-70 -



IBRD 32088
rhs mop was produced by the                    12'                               n
Map Design Unit of The World Bonk  G  I  I N  E
The boundaries, colors, denominations              -  -  -  -  -  -  -                                         o,_
and cnyother information shownon
this map do not imply, on the part of
The World Bank Group, any judgment                                      Falaba
on the legalstatus ofany territoryor                   /
any endorsement or acceptance of
such boundories
{,o<g;;   fKabala               G U I N E A
Kamakw     \Fodugu    KO     A DU      G U    K
Kama ran
- ,q3   r,  s.J    \   -r{,,-j   B O M B A L I
_,                                 P KSa   Oei.den.bu   *                             ;/
Kala.)   . 
).    Xz1,,,,, -sX je*, d S r',b mbuq. 
t, '3 Oi~rebura                                                           0 1 t   <,,  tatken,2  ~ '.Worodu_,J
Koli.';              I Loko                                                            Salomao.
0 ':ZI r.o0           ~*''~        d'- A00.j                         K 0 Nf C    Kainkordu>
IO.     pL '-                       -                                       Sefadu    0   1-1     TO
r ^ G lagr.,. . T O'N  K       L I L I arJ                Gu6ck6dou
w                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~indu, TO
/  .=~~~~~~.ia~~~~,r,t,ao,o        *~~~~~~~~~~*s                 ) ~~~~Voinjama
t-, */5a;--z:,  <s: ,0( \ V \ -~~~~ .'3-                                              i r a hS<u nnX\<lTo
n       Oenet,Io                        Dodo 0 0Ponuma) KAt UAH  N      ' .
t3                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~KENEMA  ~e  b 
' _ :'   'JbzngbaloKO   ,       (   ~~~~;y,,              X  *          '-  *
0    a,_,On  THE '',-r?ur /
--~~~~~~~- __-O~pO                 -- P      - t{UN90
---  ~~ SI           LERRAL-E O tIENE TON                 -~.   .-               --. 
~~           'tTtTANDA[                    ATVLOPMNTIPOJC    T    - - 1 ' re....,~ ,,
NArTtONAL CAftTAi.             AS -tE SRRA                                                   "
{~~~~~ DISTEtCT BOUNDARtES                        0 CFE-A N                   t'rrO'5f LEONE ,-;;. 
-'-    INTERNATIONbAL BOUNDARIES.'__.                                                 .
:t F LA4N ftI.   :-  * L Eti:
2~~~~~~~~~ -                  2                                  ,__
SEPTEM^BER 2002









Report No.,       24217  SL
Type:     PAD



