E645
Volume 1
HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(HSRDP) FOR SIERRA LEONE
Environmental Assessment
October 29, 2002
FINAL REPORT
By:
Dr. Raymond Geoffrey Johnson, Data Collection and Inputting
Dr. Reynolds Godfrey Johnson, Environmental Assessment Specialist
Mr. John Tommy, Environmental Health Specialist! Team Leader
FUNDED BY THE WORLD BANK



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Acronyms                                                                   3
Executive Summary                                                          4
1.0   Introduction                                                         7
2.0    Description of the project                                          7
3.0    Description of the area of influence                                9
4.0    Description of legal, regulatory and administrative frameworks      13
5.0    Methodology and techniques used in assessing and analysing the impacts  16
6.0    Consultation with affected people                                   17
7.0    Analysis of potential environmental negative and positive impact
Of the project                                                      18
8.0    The negative environmental impacts of the Technical
Programmes of the project                                           22
9.0    Description of the institutional arrangements for the management
Of insecticide-treated bed-nets and awareness raising campaigns
Amongst users                                                       23
10.0   Medical waste management and prevention of nosocomial infections    24
11.0   Proposed mntigating measures and costs estimates                    26
12.0   Proposed institutional framework for environmental management       27
13.0   Environmental and social monitoring indicators                      27
14.0   Environmental and social monitoring plans                           28
General Recommendations                                                    28
List of individual/institutions contacted                                  29
References                                                                 30
Annexes                                                                    31
2



ACRONYMS
ADA                  Area Development Association
ARG                  Aids Response Group
CBO                  Community Based Organisation
DHMT                 District Health Management Team
EA                   Environmental Assessment
EHD                  Environmental Health Division
EPA                  Environmental Protection Act
EPD                  Environment Protection Department
FCC                  Freetown City Council
MLHCPE               Ministry of Lands, Housing, Country Planning and the
Environment
MOHS                 Ministry of Health and Sanitation
NaCSA                National Commission for Social Action
NGO                  Non Governmental Organisation
NMCP                 National Malaria Control Programme
OCHA                 Organisation for the Coordination of Humanitanan Assistance
OCP                  Onchocerciasis Control Programme
SHARP                Sierra Leone HIV/AlDS Response Group
WB                   World Bank
3



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The report presents the final results of the Environmental Assessment (EA) carried out in
accordance with the World Bank safeguard policies for rehabilitation and development of
health-facilities and technical programmes for Moyamba, Kono, Koinadugu, and Bombali
distncts of Sierra Leone on behalf of the Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS).
The E.A. was carried out in two phases. The first phase dealt with desktop research on the
areas of project influence and the second phase consisted of site visits. During the site visits
biophysical characteristics of the various project sites were collected and questionnaires were
administered in order to assess the socio-cultural impacts of the proposed project. The local
people were also consulted on the potential positive and negative environmental and social
impacts of the project.
The E.A. findings established that the proposed Sierra Leone - Health Sector
Reconstruction and Development Project (P074128) is a Category B project since it's
potential negative impacts are site-specific and easily manageable.
The issues addressed in the EA mainly focused on the impact of the proposed project on the
biophysical and socio-cultural environments of Koinadugu, Kono, Moyamba and Bombali
Districts of Sierra Leone.
These include:
Landscaping
The development of landfill sites, rehabilitation of buildings for health centres, and staff
quarters require some form of clearing of land cover and landscaping. This will lead to
deforestation and land cover changes at the specific sites.
Creation of Pits
During the rehabilitation of health facilities and provision of sanitation facilities, open pits
will inevitably be created, mainly on a temporary basis. These pits if not covered after
rehabilitation works can pose a threat to lives, cause injuries, serve as receptacles for rubbish
and breeding grounds for mosquitoes etc.
Deforestation
Deforestation is associated with loss of biodiversity and soil fertility through erosion.
Deforestation always occurs where building or rehabilitation projects are implemented.
Although here the deforestation is site specific, nonetheless, the environmental concerns are
still valid at this micro-scale. The impacts on the social environment seem to be on the
positive side, as the project is community demand driven.
Pollution
Pollution can be caused as a result of the abandoning and poor disposal of spoil and paint
materials. Dust associated with earth preparation for rehabilitation works can impair the
quality of air around the sites.
Loss of agricultural land
Agriculture is the dominant economic activity in the rural areas covered by the E.A. The
agricultural activities are mostly food and cash crop production. Livestock rearing was at a
very low ebb at the time of the assessment. The main food crop grown in the EA areas are
rice (upland swamp), groundnuts, sweet potatoes, cassava and other assorted vegetables.
4



Impacts on Water Resources
Ineffective methods of waste disposal can have serious impacts on water resources with
undesirable health effects. These effects may range from not only impairing water quality but
may also lead to water contamination and subsequent outbreak of water-borne diseases.
The Main Findings Are As Follows:
There are no significant environmental issues and the overall environmental impact is
expected to be favourable as the project will finance a sanitation component: building of
incinerators within existing hospital compounds for health-facility wastes, development of
new sanitary landfill sites, rehabilitation of existing latrines and staff quarters within the
health-facilities compound. Existing water wells within the hospital compounds will be
deepened to increase their current yields and consequently increase their water supplies. Staff
will be trained and communities sensitised.
Target beneficiaries were happy that health facilities are to be rehabilitated.
The critical mass of the beneficiaries ranges from illiterates to semi-illiterates who could not
quite discern the environmental issues of the project until after the public consultations
wherein these issues were addressed.
New land will be acquired by the project for the proposed landfill sites. This will involve land
acquisition, whichl may lead to loss of incomes or assets, anid possibly involuntary
resettlement. There is io clear national policy for involuntary resettlement. Consequently,
the project under review is developing a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) consistent
with the World Bank's OP 4.12. The negative environmental impacts of thle rehabilitation
componientts of the project and thze technical programmes were found to be manageable.
It is against the backdrop of the above findings of the EA that the following
recommendations are suggested: -
I. The proponent and its development partners consider the mitigation measures
suggested for each impact during the implementation of the project.
2. Non-lead based paint is used for the project under review.
3. Efforts are made to carry out the mitigation and monitoring plans for expected
impacts provided in the annexes.
Appropriate consultations with MOHS headquarter staff, staff of priority technical
programmes, District Health Management Teams of the four proposed priority districts,
potentially would-be affected groups, local communities, and non-governmental organisations
(NGOs) have been undertaken during the preparation of the EA.
Finally the conclusion of the EA includes the following:
The project was well conceived and environmental concerns seemed to have been taken
onboard implicitly. The environmental impacts of the project are site-specific and
manageable. The mitigation measures suggested in this report will enhance the quality
of the environment in the post project period.
The SHARP is finalising a national master plan for the safe management of healthcare wastes,
wherein environmental and social issues relating to incineration and sanitary landfills are
fully addressed, including monitoring and mitigation plans. Since SHARP and HSRDP will
be operating within the same areas, and SHARP became effective October 2002 whilst
HSRDP is expected to be effective in January 2003, it will be prudent to reconcile efforts to
5



avoid duplication.
Consequenztly. it is the opinion of this consultant thlat the impact mnonitoring mzeasures relating
to medical waste management that are being addressed by SHARP could serve both projects.
Hence, there is no need for a separate one but to reference it. SHARP hlas also finalised a
medical waste management training plan as a mitigation mzeasure, wlhichI will suffice for both
projects.
The analysis of the acquired information revealed that there is need for the current
environmental legislation and policy to be explained to the local people and that they be
encouraged to develop Local Environmental Action Plans (LEAPS) as part of the overall
National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP).
6



1.0   INTRODUCTION
The proposed Sierra Leone Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project's
(HSRDP) overall development objective is to help restore the most essential functions of the
health delivery system. The project will also help achieve the more specific objectives of:
Increasing access to affordable essential health services by improving primary and first
referral health facilities in four distncts of the country.
Improving the performance of key technical programs responsible for coping with the
country's major public health problems.
Strengthening health sector management capacity to improve efficiency and further
decentralise decision-making to the districts.
Supporting development of the private health sector and involvement of the civil society in
decision-making.
Independent assessments covered the following:
i.    Increase access to health facilities including rehabilitation of damaged health
facilities and provision of water supply and sanitation.
il.   Improving the quality of health delivery systems, which includes the
establishment of health centres; and the deployment and settlement of health
workers.
ill.   Enhancing institutional capacity of MOHS.
iv.    Issues associated with measures to reduce the environmental impact of health
facility wastes with reference to the technical programmes
A team of consultants and field workers based in Sierra Leone (part of a national
consultation-working group) has completed these tasks in accordance with the World Bank
(WB) safeguard policies.
The rehabilitation of damaged health facilities programme has not yet commenced since
MOHS is currently seeking funding from the World Bank with regards to (i) and (ii) above.
Purposes and Requirement of the Environmental Assessment (EA)
The purpose of the environmental analysis (EA) is to assess the potential environmental and
social impacts of the proposed project, particularly with regard to rehabilitation activities,
medical waste disposal and the use of insecticide-treated bed nets; to be funded under the
component for the restoration of essential health facilities.
The EA includes a full environmental, socio-economic and socio-cultural assessment of
potential impacts of the above activities in the future and appropriate mitigation and
monitoring plans. It is also intended to satisfy all requirements of the national and local
authorities.
2.0    DESCRIPTION OF THE OF PROPOSED PROJECT
According to the Project Appraisal Document and interviews conducted with officials of the
Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS), the project for which this current Environmental
Assessment (EA) is being prepared has two components:
7



Component 1: Restoring essential health services
This component will (a) provide assistance to four priority districts to deliver adequate health
services and (b) support key technical programs to improve their performance and control
infectious diseases of high public health importance in Sierra Leone (i.e. Malaria, TB, and
Sanitation). These techinical programmes all fall under the MOHS' Directorate of Primary
Health Care and employs the integrated approach in the implementation of their respective
responsibilities. Thley are directly related to one another.
Component 2: Strengthening Public and Private Sector Capacity
Under this component the HSRDP will support: (a) in all the distncts of the country the
decentralization process by (i.) strengthening the district teams and creating capacity for
appropriate planning, management, financial management and supervision and (ii) improving
the decision making process, and (b) five key programs of the MOHS (i.e. Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation, Financial Management Procurement, Donor Coordination and
Human Resources Development) whose performance is essential for raising efficiency and
improving the administrative performance at the central level.
This component will help develop incentives for pnvate health providers, with focus on not-
for-profit provides, to develop and discharge services in the four districts supported by the
project. Another thrust of this sub-component will be to enact regulation to foster private
sector development and the provision of quality affordable services. It is also expected that
the health policy will be updated and civil society will be involved in the decision-making
during the project.
From the above project description, it can be seen, that the focus of the Environment
Assessment (EA) is on component I of the project.
This component of the Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project will involve
amongst others the equipping of 50 health posts with support from the IDA funded
community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Projects. The project will finance civil works
(rehabilitation of buildings), provide water supply and sanitation facilities, develop 4 project-
districts sanitary landfill sites, incinerators, essential staff quarters for 12 health centres and
four first-referral hospitals amongst other activities. Apart from the development of landfill
sites, which is likely to involve land acquisition, all other activities will be carried out at
existing sites.
The proposed project sites (existing) are in conformity with the local development structures
and are demand driven, as there is no evidence of a concrete development plan at the local
level. A criterion for the selection, development, and operation of landfill sites is annexed.
The project sites (existing) are in accordance with the provision of the National
Environmental Protection Act 2000, and the Labour and Public Health Acts of Sierra
Leone. The EA will therefore address the potential environmental and social impacts of the
civil works associated with rehabilitation, waste management, water supply and sanitation,
landfill sites, and incinerators.
With regards to the technical programmes, the EA will deal with issues associated with
measures to reduce the environmental impacts in the context of the medical waste
management plan prepared under SHARP.
8



3.0    DESCRIPTION OF THE AREA OF INFLUENCE
The project will cover the following areas: -
1. Kono Distnct
2. Moyamba District
3. Bombali District
4. Koinadugu District
3.1    The Biophysical Characteristics
3.1.1  Kono District
Kono district is located in the eastern province of Sierra Leone. The district is bordered on
the north by Koinadugu district, on the east by the Republic of Guinea, the southeast by
Kailahun and Kenema districts in the southwest and by Tonkolili districts in the west.
This area has a topography characterized by hills to the east and low land covered with
savannah grassland to the north. Inland valley swamps occupy a vast area of the district and
are relatively fertile.
The climate of the area is typical of the eastern region of Sierra Leone. This area has a mean
annual rainfall of over 250mm, 80% occurring between May and November. Mean monthly
air temperature ranges between 200C and 280C.
In terms of biological diversity, the district is now covered in most parts by low grassland and
most of the forest cover that has been lost was due to intense mining activities and the rebel
war. Wildlife is poor, restricted to a limnted species of birds and other wild animals e.g.
monkeys.
Administration
Kono District comprises fourteen (14) chiefdoms. The headquarter town is Koidu which is
also the administrative headquarter town.
Socio-Economic Activities
The population of Kono distnct (1985, census) was estimated to be around 7,000 with density
of 69 persons per square kilometres. Presently, the population of the district has not been
fully determined as it only now that government authority is gradually returning to the area.
Kono district is well known as the main economic activity there centres around mining of
diamonds which is widely believed to be the dominant source of funding for the ten year old
brutal civil war, the country experienced.
Agricultural activity is modest in the area, as the land for most part has been degraded by
mining activities with little or no rehabilitation. Most of the soils are ferralitic shallow and of
low fertility, except for the inland valley swamps which are relatively fertile. Presently,
government control is returning to almost the entire district and there is little commercial or
other related activities taking place in the district.
3.1.2 Moyamba District
Moyamba district is situated roughly between 7045' and 8025' North Latitude, and between
11°45' and 130 West Longitude. It covers an estimated area of 86,902 square kilometres and
has fourteen (14) chiefdoms.
9



Relief
The district has a varying topography with a general plateau surface, which has an elevation
of 230ft( to 300ft( above sea level. Swamps are limited to a few hollows in the plateau as
yet unaffected by the back cutting of the rejuvenated streams.
Hills are also found in the district, prominent amongst which is the Moyamba hill on which
there is a forest reserve. It is also characterised by an extensive coastal plain. The up-
standing hill masses diversify the coastal plain. One such mass is deeply cleft by through
valleys into a series of sub-conical hills, the most elevated of which Yuvini reaches 1,439
feet.
Climate
The climate in Moyamba district is similar to that of the rest of the rest of the country with
two season; these are the dry (November - May) and wet (May - November) seasons. Lack
of metrological information on this district precludes one from providing further details.
Drainage System
There are various streams and rivers that incise the district, amongst which is the southward-
flowing Yambafui stream, which is constrained into passing around the eastern flank of the
hills, where its waters mixing with those of the Gbangabia, a series of rapids are actively,
cutting into skirts of the upland between Gondama and Bonjema.
Vegetation and Soils
Under uniformly warm conditions, with abundant, though seasonal precipitation, the
vegetation is characterised by high rain - forest and mangrove swamps along the coastal
areas. There are also areas of derived grass on flatter areas. The soil is compared of infertile
duricrust as a result of intense laterisation.
Socio-economnic activities
The main activities here are agriculture and mining. The traditional suites of crops are grown
in this area, but in addition, ginger has been a local cash crop speciality.
Amongst the minerals mined commercially are bauxite and rutile. As a result of rutile
mining, the traditional agncultural, forestry, hunting and fishing activities are giving way to
mining and other associated activities.
3.1.3 Bombali District
This district is bordered on the north by the Republic of Guinea and on the south and west by
Tonkolili, Port Loko and Kambia districts respectively and shares its eastern boundary with
Koinadugu District. It comprises 13 chiefdoms amongst which the Biriwa and Bombali-
Sheboro chiefdoms are the largest having about 30% of the district's total population.
Relief
The district is also part of the interior hills and plateaux region of Sierra Leone with scarp
zones separating the interior plateau and hills from the inland plains. Scarp erosion is eminent
in this area as is evident in the granite residuals and inselberg concentration in the areas
especially north of the headquarter town of Makeni. A typical example is the Gbenge hills
consisting of a group of inselbergs. The geomorphology of the district also displays gently
rolling plains, comprising, broad rounded interfluves with occasional isolated rocky hills,
dissected by ill-defined, narrow valley swamps (FAO, TRI, 1979). There is the general
presence of foot slopes and alluvium terraces. The inhabitants to provide basic foodstuffs
cultivate the foot slopes and terraces.
10



Drainage
A few streams are present and are associated with narrow flood plains and terraces. The
drainage comprise a trunk stream - Makpenta - which is a third order stream formed by the
second order stream descending to Sendugu and Kagbouka hills. The flow is from a northeast
to southwest direction revealing a dendrite drainage pattern.  In general the streams
descending the watershed are swift, and punctuated by rapids in various places, striated floors
and potholes with steep - sided V-shaped valleys and gorges. Gullies and hills, which drain
farm plots, are common features in the study area.
Geology
Most of the land is under pain by strongly folded igneous and metamorphic rocks belonging
to various formations. Structurally known as the Kenema assemblage, which is part of the
West African eraton. The igneous rocks of which biotile - granite is predominant vary in
colour from light grey to brownish grey and from pink to dull salmon-red. The chief
accessory minerals that make up these rocks include zireon, magnetite, epidote, apatite, rutile
and pyrite.
Climate
Bombali district, like the rest of the country, experiences two seasons; dry and wet seasons.
The dry season last from late November to early May and the wet season from late May to
Mid-November. The Harmattan season (Mid-December to Mid -February) is sometimes
severe in this region when compared with other regions in the country.
The wet season commences from April or May to Mid-November. The absence of
meteorological data for this district makes it difficult to provide annual average air
temperature or rainfall with the highest rainfall in July and August.
Soils and Vegetation
The soils in this area are formed from solid basement rocks of granite and gneisses under
secondary bush and forest. Those on the hill slopes and foot slopes are underlain by red
gravel duricrust or mottled soils belonging to the group known as Oxosols. These soils are
relatively infertile and support agriculture on a rotational bush fallow system.
The alluvial soils brought down the hills by fluvial and other weathering processes belong to
the group known as Inceptisols and can support intense agricultural cultivation.
In terms of vegetation, there is little primary forest as most of the existing forest is secondary.
Presently, deciduous woodland vegetation predominates. Savannah and herbaceous shrubs
and grasses of the Andropogon spp. and Lacryma iobi. are prevalent. The eroded hillslopes
have to some extent been colonised by a mantle of adolescent sedge called catgria pilose.
The trees comprise mainly of the oil palm (Elaeis guineensis) Mango (Magnifera indica),
Orange (citrus spp) and the Kola 'tree (cola nitida).
The swamps are dominated with herbaceous upright sedges such as scypus brizziformis.
Demography and Economic Activity
The Bombali district has an average population density of 78 persons per square mile
(Thomas 1983). According to the 1974 Census the total population of the distnct was
233,626.
The economic activities in the area include agriculture, animal husbandry, palm wine tapping,
hunting and crafts. The prevalent farming system here is the rotational bush fallow system.
Commercial activities are low in the district and there are no mining activities.
11



3.1.4 Koinadugu District
This district lies between latitude 9020' and 9042'N and longitude 11016' and 11044'W. It
comprises 11 chiefdoms the major ones being Wara-Wara Yagala and Sengbe and the total
area involved is approximately 587 sq. miles, 120 and 467 sq. miles for Wara-Wara and
Sengbe respectively.
Relief
The district is part of the interior hills and plateaux regions of Sierra Leone, which forms a
broken plateau lying at an elevation ranging between 1000 - 2000' above sea level. A
charactenstic feature of the district is its numerous steeply sloping hills and narrow valleys
covering the area. Prominent geomorphologic features the Wara-Wara Mountains and hills
rising to about 3000 ft. above sea level. This rugged terrain is the precursor for the relative
underdevelopment of the district especially with increasing distance from headquarter town of
Kabala.
Climate
Mean annual rainfall values range between 70" and 90" of which 85-90% of the precipitation
takes place between the months of May and November.
Mean monthly temperatures have a seasonal rhythm with minimum in July - August ranging
(74-840F), 256-28.90C) and (88-94°F) (31.1-34.40C) for March - April. Minimum mean
temperature is lowest in January and December of being 15.60C (600F) or less.
Soils
The soils are latentic or reddish brown soils derived from the basement complex of granite
and gneisses.
Vegetation
The predominant vegetation in the area is open bush and grassland. Small patches of forest
are also found scattered over the area together with inland fresh water swamps. The latter are
found mostly at the bottom of valleys along the courses of streams rising from the mountains
Population
In general the population is made up of a number of ethnic groups but numerically the
Korankos and Limbas are the most important. Also found in significant numbers are the
Madingoes and Fullahs. The latter are the main cattle rear and they derive their main source
of income from the sale of cattle. The other groups are largely agriculturists. The population
is largely rural. Over 85% of the population are estimated to be directly dependent on the
land for that livelihood. The density of the population ranges from as low as 24 9 persons per
square mile in Sengbe to as high as 144.2 in Wara-Wara. Also found in significant numbers
are the Madingoes and Fullahs. The latter's income comes from the sale of cattle. The
Madingoes are largely agricultunsts.
3.2    The Social Structures
The Social structures of the districts covered by the EA are similar. In the districts there are
chiefdoms each of which are ruled locally by chiefs representing the various tribes in the
chiefdom. The paramount chief is the overall local head of the chiefdom. The chiefdom
councils are made up of tribal authorities (chiefdom councillors), which are set up to
administer the chiefdoms, and to advice the paramount chief which in turn coordinates with
the district councils. Headmen head the village and village area committees administer the
villages. The lowest level in village is the household level.
12



Of all the districts visited, only Freetown has a pipe borne water supply system. The districts
depend of underground water sources. The healthcare facilities use wells and overhead
storage tanks for water supplies. Three forms are in use; septic tank systems, traditional pit
latrines and ventilated improved pit latrines. There are no conventional sewerage systems in
the districts. Freetown has a trunk sewer for the central business area, which leads directly
into the Atlantic Ocean.
Land Tenure/Ownership
The indigenous system of land tenure and that, which still exists in the distncts, is based on
community property rights. Land belongs to the local community as a whole and every
individual is considered to have a right to a piece of land for his use. The paramount chief is
the custodian of the land and he is responsible for the primary allocation of land.
Farming Practices
The predomnant farming practice here is one of subsistence shifting cultivation or
progressive extension of cultivation into new land with regular periods of cropping and
resting.
The main crop grown is upland nce, which continue to be the primary charges of all the farm
families of the district. However, the fertility status of the upland farming alone has not been
able to provide subsistence to the farm family. As a result, swamplands in the valleys of the
area have now received the attention of the farmers.
Before the war started in 1991, the rotation of fields was speeded up, particularly in the Wara-
Wara chiefdom because of the increase in population, but one year's rice followed by about
6-10 years bush fallow is still fairly common: the more usual period is estimated as being 7-8
years. However, the system of arable upland farming depends on the maintenance of soil
fertility.
This social structure is important to take cognisance of, for the development of environmental
management strategies for the health sector.
4.0    DESCRIPTION OF THE LEGAL, REGULATORY AND
ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORKS
4.1 Organisational Structure of Environmental Management at the National and Local
levels
The political head of the department of the Environment at present is the Minister of Lands,
Housing and Country Planning and the Environment (MLHCPE).
At the head of Administration is a Permanent Secretary who is responsible for co-ordinating
the functions of the three departments within the Ministry viz. Department of Housing and
Country Planning (DHCP), Department of Surveys and Lands (DSL) and the Department of
the Environment, (DOE). He is also the Principal Adviser to the Minister and the Vote
Controller of the Ministry's budget.
The National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) was adopted in 1996, providing a
framework for environmental management in the country. It is in two volumes. Volume I
outlines the various environmental and resource management issues affecting the country,
prioritises them and indicate strategies to mitigate the problems. Volume II contains
investment proposals, which are to be founded. These proposals are divided into six
programme areas:
1. Support Programmes
2. Naturel Ressource Management
13



3. Durban Management
4. Environnemental Education
5. Training and Information
6. Women and the Environment
Each programme area has a number of projects, which are to be implemented over a five-year
period.
The National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA) 2000 empowers the Environmental
Protection Department to perform the following tasks amongst others:
*  Screen projects for Environmental Impact Assessment (EIS)
*  Issuance of Environmental Impact Assessment Licences
*  Formulate  or promote the   formulation  of, and  monitor the
implementation of environmental policies, programmes, projects,
standards and regulations.
The NEPA 2000 also provides for the establishment of an Environmental Protection Board.
The Board consist of 13 members including a chairman, charged with the task of facilitating
coordination, cooperation and collaboration among government ministries, local authorities
and other agencies in areas of environmental protection; reviewing national and sector
policies and environmental impact assessments as well as investigating activities and
transactions that are considered harmful to the environment amongst others.
Other sector instruments for the management of the environment include:
1. The Forestry and wildlife Act
2. The Mines and Mineral Act
3. The Fisheries Management Act
4. The Public Health Act
Apart from the above instruments, a number of sector policies have been developed which
have a bearing on the improvement of the environment. Amongst these are: The National
Health Policy; The Draft National Environmental Health Policy; The Transport Sector Policy;
The National Water Policy; The Agricultural Policy and The National Housing Policy.
4.2    Local Level
At the local level, the environmental functions are carried out by provincial officers of the
DOE of the MLHCPE through its Assistant Environmental Officers in the Northern,
Southern, Eastern Provinces, and an officer for the Western Area. It is envisaged that these
officers will be part of the area town planning committees set within Town Councils.
At present the main tasks of the Assistant Environmental Officers operating at provincial
levels basically include monitoring of environmental programmes and projects, evaluation of
environmental degradation and completion of reports. At present Town Councils, including
the Freetown City Council (FCC) with statutory powers as a Local Authority (LA) does not
participate in any arrangement affecting environmental management in accordance with the
National Environmental Protection Act, 2000. However, as the Act is implemented these
Councils will start playing pivotal roles. The City and Town councils however have
environmental units which focus mainly on health and sanitation issues.
14



4.3    The World Bank Safeguard Policies
The World Bank safeguards policies (WBSPs) cover ten (10) areas. These are Environmental
Assessment, Natural Habitats, Forestry, Pest Management, Safety of Dams, International
Waters, Indigenous peoples, Involuntary Resettlement, Cultural property and Disputed Areas.
With regards to the current study, the relevant areas of the WBSPs are (i) Environmental
Assessment (OP 4 01), which deals with project screening; and (n) Involuntary Resettlement
(OP 4.12) which deals with impacts due to land acquisition.
According to the screening criteria of the WB as well as that in the schedule of the Sierra
Leone Environmental Protection Act, 2000, the following classifications exist.
Projects are classified into category A if they are likely to have significant adverse impacts
that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented, or that affect an area broader than the sites or
facilities subject to physical works.
The impacts of category B projects are site-specific in nature and do not significantly affect
human populations or alter environmentally important areas, including wetlands, native
forests, grasslands and other natural habitats. Few if any of the impacts are irreversible and in
most cases mitigation measures can be designed more readily than for category A projects.
In practice, therefore, the significance of impacts, and the selection of the screening category
depend on the type and scale of the project, the location and sensitivity of environmental
issues, and the nature and magnitude of the potential impacts.
The features of the present project are such that the potential negative impacts of the
project are site-specific, minimal and can be mitigated more easily (Category B).
According to the project description, no new construction of health care facilities will be
undertaken only existing facilities will be rehabilitated, and there will be development of
new sanitary landfills.
The component that deals with the technical programmes will not purchase insecticides for
outdoor or indoor spraying for vector control regarding malaria. With regards to the
sanitation components, the project will not purchase disinfectants.
In light of the above, the project is not likely to have any adverse impacts on the environment
or if any, such impacts are likely to be manageable.
The National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) also covers activities related to mitigation
measures, monitorng and Institutional strengthening. The mitigation and monitoring plans
for this current EA study is provided in the annexes.
The World Bank's OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement provides for, among other things, the
preparation of a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) in the event that future project
activities involve land acquisition, which may lead to loss of incomes or assets among the
affected population. Such an RPF has been prepared as a separate document in light of
the development of sanitary landfills planned under the proposed project. This RPF
would also apply to other project activities that might involve land acquisition.
15



5.0    METHODOLOGY AND TECHNIQUES USED IN ASSESSING AND
ANALYZING THE IMPACTS
5.1    Sampling
According to project documents, two stages were involved based on the following clusters: -
Stage 1 - Districts
The first stage of stratification - the four participating districts to deliver health services and
implement key programme activities under the project was purposefully and very specifically
pre-selected by MOHS and agreed upon with the World Bank.
These are:
*  Moyamba district
*  Kono District
*  Bombali District
*  Koinadugu District
These districts reflect a homogeneous setting in terms of socio-economic activities.
Stage 2 - Chiefdoms
This stage involved the villages/settlements in which Community Health Centres (three in
each of the above districts) in areas of project influence. The DHMTs using the criteria
agreed upon with the WB and the MOHS team provided the respective district lists of
proposed community health centres.
Both primary and secondary data were collected.
The secondary data was collected from the Ministry of Health and Sanitation, NGOs and
other organisations.
The primary data collection was undertaken primarily to provide field data to enable the
consultants to fulfil the objective of the study. Secondly, it was used to cross check some of
the information gathered from secondary sources.
The information collected was used to assess the potential environmental and social impacts
of the components of rehabilitation activities and redeployment of health personnel.
5.2 Environmental analysis
The environmental analysis covered the issues as provided in the Draft-Terms of Reference
(DTOF).
Data collection
Both primary and secondary data were collected.
Primary data
Site visits
Visits to the identified sites were conducted.  Structured questionnaires were
administered. The information was related to the following issues: -
* Assessment of potential environmental and social impacts of rehabilitation
activities in the rural.
16



*  Assessment of the environmental and social impacts of increased provisions of
water supply and sanitation facilities.
.  Assessment of the need for liquid and solid waste collection, disposal and
management
*  Assessment of the existing capacity to implement and management plans under
the proposed project.
Secondary data
Desktop research and visits
Information on previous and related assessments was collected from various
sources/institutions (e.g. Ministry of Health and Sanitation and NGOs) to complement the
present assessment.
The information sought was related to the following: -
*  Biophysical characteristics of the environment in the rural area/urban areas covered
by the project
*  Review of the social legislation with regard to resettlement
*  Review of the national environmental policies, legislation regulatory and
*  Administrative framework in conjunction with the WB's safeguard policies.
6.0    CONSULTATIONS WITH AFFECTED PEOPLE
Past situation
Health facilities have been in Moyamba, Kono, Koinadugu and Bombali Districts since the
period after independence. The sites where the health facilities were located i.e. hospitals;
peripheral health units were initially acquired by the Ministry of Health and Sanitation.
However destruction of these health facilities were systematically carried out during the ten-
year civil war.
Present situation
The DHMTs of Moyamba, Bombali, Koinadugu and Kono districts in collaboration with
Regional Environmental Officers based in Kenema in the east and Port Loko in the north
respectively facilitated consultations with communities in the Moyamba, Koinadugu, Bomball
and Kono, districts. Structured questionnaires were used to obtain information for the
environmental analysis.
The team visited the headquarter town of Moyamba, Koinadugu, Bombali and Kono plus
each of the three rural communities (sites for community health centres) in each of the target
districts. The principal aim of the visit was to assess the possible potential negative impacts
of the project in these towns and villages. On arrival at the various districts headquarter
towns and villages, the team held initial meetings with the paramount chiefs or chiefs and
elders of the various communities.  The administering of the structured questionnaires
followed these initial consultations. General meetings involving the old and young including
women and local NGOs followed the initial meetings with the elders and chiefs in each of the
target communities. After the opening of each meeting, the EA team asked the people whether
they have been officially informed on the potential negative social and environmental impacts
of the project. The reply in all cases was negative. Nonetheless, they said that they were
involved in the project development stages. Consequently, the EA team presented the project
and described the potential adverse and beneficial effects. It was stressed that the objective of
the meeting was to inform and gather information (comments) and that it should be seen as a
public hearing where the participants should feel free to come forward with their concerns so
17



that they can be integrated in the EA report. General discussions were concluded with
"Question and Answer" sessions to clarify and note the respective issues and concerns.
Project's Impact Perceptions at the district levels.
Analysis of responses to the administered questionnaires showed that:
1. An appreciable number of those interviewed in the various districts expressed the
desire to see the strengthening of their local capacities to handle environmental
mitigation plans and activities.
2. The perceptions on environmental impacts of the project amongst the interviewed
varied slightly. The majority view seems to be that the project poses little or no treat
to the environment. There were those who agreed that some degree of environmental
degradation is associated with the project, however, they were of the view that these
impacts are manageable.
Below are selected relevant questions and answers at the general meetings.
Q.     When will the Project commence?
A.     Now, as these consultations are part of the project. However, the actual rehabilitation
work will start in January 2003. The project is expected to close in 2006.
Q.     With reference to the incinerators, what will the project do about the smoke
nuisance and the toxic emissions to air?
A.     The incinerators will be appropriately sited and installed with appropriate chimney
heights and provided with exhaust gas cleaning devices. The emission will be
regularly monitored to assess the effluent quality to control air pollution.
Q.     Will any new land be acquired and or will people be displaced by the Project?
A.     No new land will be acquired and people will not be displaced only existing
structures will be rehabilitated.
Q.     Will drugs be given free of costs by the project
A.     No. However drugs will be made cheap and made available to the community at the
health-care facilities
Each general meeting ended with the understanding that the community could contact the
local environmental officers or the EA team should they want to bnng up any further issues.
The participants seemed to be very satisfied with the information provided.
The purpose of the site visits and meetings were:
1. To acquaint the people with details of the project
2. To educate them about environmental concerns of the project
3. To seek information on potential environmental and social negative impacts of the
projects on the communities
4. To assess the capacity for implementation of mitigation and management plans
5. To assess the performance of the various technical programmes.
Land acquisition for landfills was not discussed. However, the Resettlement Policy
Framework recently developed, for the project under review, addresses this issue.
7.0    ANALYSIS      OF     POTENTIAL        NEGATIVE       AND      POSITIVE
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
According to the terms of reference, the EA has identified a number of negative and positive
potential environmental impacts of the civil works (rehabilitation) component of the project
as well as the potential environmental and social impacts of incinerators and landfill sites on
the biophysical environment in the different districts, in both urban and rural areas.
18



Below are discussed the impacts on land, water and air:
7.1 POTENTIAL IMPACTS ON LAND
* Deforestation
* Loss of biodiversity
* Pollution
* Loss of agricultural land
* Creation of open pits
* Land strnping
Deforestation
This is one of the most common environmental problems associated with building
rehabilitation and the development of landfill sites. Deforestation is associated with loss of
biodiversity and soil fertility. It enhances erosion and affects evapo-transpiration processes
and watershed hydrological regimes. Deforestation can also affect or alter the microclimate
regime. However, the project under review envisages limited deforestation at potential sites
for landfill development. A criterion for the selection, development and operation of landfill
sites is annexed to minimise potential negative impacts of the biophysical and social
environment.
Loss of biodiversity
The possible impact of the project on biodiversity is mainly related to deforestation and
physical landscaping and may be restricted to only the areas of rehabilitation and landfill
development. It is therefore site specific and manageable.
Pollution
Pollution can be caused as a result of the abandoning and poor disposal of spoil and paint
materials. Dust associated with earth preparation for rehabilitation works can impair the
quality of air around the sites. This is also true for open dumping of wastes.
Loss of agricultural land
Agriculture is the dominant economic activity in the rural areas covered by the E.A. The
agricultural activities are mostly food and cash crop production. Livestock rearing was at
very low ebb at the time of the assessment. The main food crops grown in the EA areas are
rice (upland swamp), groundnuts, sweet potatoes, cassava and other assorted vegetables.
The project is preparing a resettlement policy framework, as possible loss of agricultural land
may be occasioned as a consequence of land acquisition for the development of sanitary
landfill sites.
Creation of open pits
Open pits are often associated with rehabilitation sites. These pits are created during
landscaping for construction of building foundations, rehabilitation of toilets and water
delivery and storage facilities.
If not well protected, these pits can pose threats to lives, can cause injuries and can also
inadvertently serve as rubbish dumps as well as mosquito breeding sites if left to collect
water.
Land stripping
The development of landfill sites, rehabilitation of hospitals, health centres and staff quarters
would require the clearing of land cover and land stripping. The establishment of foundations
for the buildings would require earth removal and soil modification. The environmental
19



issues relating to land stripping are related to land cover change, dust pollution and noise
amongst others. However, the environmental effect of any earthwork associated with the
project will be negligible.
7.2    IMPACT ON WATER BODIES
Rehabilitation activities would require water for mortar mnxing, bathing, laundering, drinking
etc. The clearing and preparation of the land will increase river and stream sediment loadings
through soil erosion and transported sediments (dusts). The release of sediments into streams
and rivers is likely to have an impact on ecosystems such as mangroves. However the volume
of such releases is expected to be so small, and no serious impact on water resources and
related ecosystems is expected. Leachates from landfill sites can also greatly deteriorate
nearby or underlying water bodies.
7.3    IMPACT ON AIR
The above-mentioned impacts of rehabilitation on land have implications for air quality.
When the land cover is removed i.e. forests or vegetation is cleared for building purposes, the
soil is exposed to the direct effects of wind. Thus, dust particles can be easily raised and
carried about in the air causing short-term respiratory problems for both humans and animals.
Land stripping produces a similar effect on air quality of the surrounding areas by causing
dusty conditions. No significant impact on air quality due to the project under review is
anticipated.
7.4    IMPACT ON THE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT
Impact on the local economy
In the short term, the influx of j9b seekers may bring some problems to the local sites, as
there will be competition for limited jobs. This will put pressure on the already limited food
supply and social services. MOHS will work with local authorities to address these problems
and identify possible solutions. To support the overall development of the project areas
MOHS will establish working relationships with relevant ministries and development partners
to attract development support.
Impact on the affected population
Land acquisition due to the development of landfill sites is likely to affect the surrounding
population; potential losses will be addressed in the context of the RPF prepared for the
proposed project.
7.5    POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS OF INCREASED
PROVISION OF WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION FACILITIES
Currently in the areas covered by the EA, there are very poor sanitary conditions as well as
environmental degradation resulting from unhealthy refuse and excreta disposal system, as
well as poor sources of drinking water. The potential negative impact of providing water and
sanitation includes unhygienic use of these facilities, which can actually increase disease
transmission, as could poor construction techniques, lack of maintenance, and incorrect siting
of latrines and wells.
The results of the EA showed that the health status of the communities covered in the EA
areas are very low. Water borne diseases are common particularly in areas that derive their
drinking water from streams or make use of bush and streams for toilet purposes and sewage
disposal.
20



It is against this backdrop that the increased provision of water supply and sanitation facilities
would be seen to have a positive impact, on the communities around the health facilities.
Most of the areas covered by the EA reported either having a well or pipe borne water before
the rebel assaults. Aside from Gorama Kono chiefdom, all other chiefdoms had wells before
the war.
The chiefdoms covered by the EA in the various districts and wards in the Western area
reported having pit latrines. They however occasionally use village streams and the bush for
excreta disposal. At present over 50% of these latrines were completely destroyed. For the
purpose of resettlement and rehabilitation generally there is urgent need of not only restoring
the old pit latrine, but also constructing new ones to correspond with the returning population.
Another potential impact of increased provision of water supply and sanitation facilities
therefore is the reduction of diseases like malaria, diarrhoea, dysentery, bilharzias, lassa fever,
measles, polio, etc
Aside of these positive impacts the project provides for increased provisions of water supply
and sanitation facilities. Apart from the overall positive impact of this proposal, the provision
will cause an influx of the local people into the proposed project site in order to make use of
these facilities. This may lead to conflicts and misuse of such facilities.
It is therefore recommended that the following activities should be embarked upon.
-      Mass sensitisations on purpose and use of such facilities
-      Community protection schemes for public facilities.
7.6    ACTUAL IMPACTS
Notwithstanding the above general description of the potential environmental impacts, which
are likely to result from the project, civil works activities relating to rehabilitation are site-
specific. Therefore the actual likely impacts are discussed under the same headings as before.
7.6.1 IMPACT ON LAND
Deforestation
As previously indicated, impact of the project on deforestation will be mnnimal as
most of the project sites visited are occupied by low shrubs and grass.
Biodiversity
Clearing of any piece of land is always associated with loss of biodiversity. The low
shrubs and grass are often composed of plants with medicinal potential (medicinal
herbs). However, the sites visited are not inhabited by such species.
Loss of agricultural land
In the rural areas where rehabilitation of community health centres is planned,
subsistence farming is one of the main preoccupations of the inhabitants. These can
take the form of small vegetable gardens. The sites visited have not been encroached
upon and therefore no loss of arable land is expected. However, the development of
new landfill sites may encroach on agricultural land. This may result in land
acquisition. The project under review is developing a resettlement policy framework,
which will mitigate the loss of agricultural land.
Creation of open pits
21



It is expected that open pit associated with the rehabilitation of buildings will be
temporarily created but will lose environmental significance once the rehabilitation
works have been completed.
Land stripping
The establishment of foundations for the buildings would require earth removal and
soil modification.  However, these activities will have little impact on land
topography as the existing sites for the rehabilitation works are on relatively flat land.
However, the environmental effect of any earthwork associated with the project will
be more easily manageable.
7.6.2 IMPACT ON WATER BODIES
Rehabilitation activities would actually require water for mortar mixing, bathing,
laundering, drinking etc.  The clearing and preparation of the land will not
significantly increase river and stream sediment loadings through soil erosion and
transported sediments, since the rehabilitation works will not be on new sites and or
on hilly terrains. Therefore the release of sediments into streams and rivers is not
likely to have an appreciable negative impact on ecosystems such as mangroves.
However the volume of such releases is expected to be so small, and no serious
impact on water resources and related ecosystems is expected.
7.6.3 IMPACT ON AIR
The above-mentioned impacts of rehabilitation on land have implications for air
quality. When the land cover is removed i.e. forests or vegetation is cleared for
building purposes, the soil is exposed to the direct effects of wind. Thus, dust
particles can be easily raised and carried about in the air causing short-term
respiratory problems for both humans and animals. Land stripping produces a similar
effect on air quality of the surrounding areas by causing dusty conditions. No
significant impact on air quality due to the project under review is anticipated.
8.0 THE   NEGATIVE     ENVIRONMENTAL        IMPACTS    OF THE     TECHNICAL
PROGRAMMES OF THE PROJECT
The various technical programmes of the project relate to the control of infectious diseases of
high public health importance in Sierra Leone. That is Malaria, TB, and Sanitation. These
technical programmes are under the Directorate of Primary Health Care within the MOHS
administrative structure, headed by a Director. These programmes are directly related and
employ the integrated approach in the implantations of their respective activities.
The wastes generated by these programmes should be disposed of in such a manner, that they
would pose little or no threat to the environment. These wastes may include, amongst others,
tissue, faeces, chemicals, fluids, needles, bottles, plastics and cans.
The potential negative environmental impacts of these wastes include pollution of the land,
water resources and the air. The sanitation programme under the EHD of MOHS has overall
responsibility to ensure safe management of wastes in Sierra Leone. ARG, a sub-component
of SHARP, which will work directly with MOHS, provides for strengthening of the EHD in
the light of its above-mentioned responsibility. See annex IV. SHARP has also developed a
medical waste management-training plan and is developing a comprehensive waste
management plan with its associated monitoring and mitigation plans. This consultant is
involved with these activities, which are financed by SHARP. Since SHARP will become
22



effective before the HSRDP and both projects will be operating in the same four districts,
there is no need for duplication.
8.1    Potential Impacts on Land
In Sierra Leone, rmixed solid wastes are either disposed of indiscriminately or at designated
open-dumpsites. At present there are no other methods of disposal. Poor disposal practices
can lead to unsightly sites, transmission of infectious diseases, as well as the threat of injury
to people and animals from needles, broken bottles and cans.
8.2    Potential Impacts on Water Resources
In the regions covered by the present EA, the only available public facilities for water supply
are hand-dug and drilled wells, spring boxes and recently, simple gravity systems. Most of
these facilities are still in a state of disrepair and the majority of the people rely on natural
sources such as streams and rivers.
Ineffective methods of waste disposal can have serious impacts on water resources with
undesirable health effects. These effects may range from not only impainng water quality but
may also lead to water contamination and subsequent outbreak of water-borne diseases.
8.3    Potential Impact on Air
One of the major scourges of modern life is the rising level of air pollution from various
sources.
There are no records or perhaps evidences of serious air pollution in the areas earmarked for
this component of the project. However, air pollution should be considered in planning and
layout of projects, which are likely to pollute the air.
The direction of the dominant wind is an important parameter in determrning project sites or
activities that mnght pollute the air. The present project for which this EA is being done
envisages the use of incinerators as a method of disposal of health-care wastes. Incineration
is further discussed under section 10.
Research results worldwide have shown that the primary possible sources of environmental
contamination with dioxins and furans are waste incineration. It is therefore important, that a
programme for air sampling and measurement be considered as a mitigation measure. This is
provided for in the SHARP medical waste management plan for Sierra Leone
8.4    Miscellaneous Impacts
There are a few issues such as noise, dust. visual impact which may require remediation
rather than mitigation, none are considered significant, but will be covered within the
framework of the National Environmental Action Plan which will ensure appropriate controls
and monitoring where necessary.
The EA has also identified a number of impacts due to the planned activities of the project.
All the impacts are manageable. This involves the redeployment of health workers in these
districts, although no land will be given to them. Other impacts are culturally related in that
the rehabilitation process of the hospitals would be a source of temporary employment for the
people particularly the youths, as well as providing them with an informal buildtng training
experience.
23



9.0    DESCRIPTION OF THE INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE
MANAGEMENT OF INSECTICIDE-TREATED BED-NETS AND
AWARENESS RISING CAMPAIGNS AMONG USERS
9.1    Institutional arrangements
Insecticide-treated bed-nets intended to protect against mosquitoes are donated by UNICEF,
WHO, and the World Bank to the Malaria Control Programme of the Ministry of Health and
Sanitation. A programme manager, Dr. Sarian Kamara who is based at the national level,
heads the malarial control programme.
At the district level, the respective DHMTs appoint, amongst its members, a "Malaria Focal
Point" for the district. His/her name is communicated to the programme manager.
At the local level, Bed-net Committees are established within the respective Area
Development Committees.
Initially, the nets are stored at the central medical stores at the national level. Respective
distnct and area requisitions are submitted to the managers who subsequently endorse it and
make the requisitions to the central medical stores. The District Medical Officer receives the
nets. At the chiefdom level, nets are stored at the PHUs.
The community members supervised by the respective programme representatives do the
dipping of the nets. The insecticide presently used by the programme is permethrin, a
pyrethroid. This is a WHO recommended insecticide for treating bed-nets.
After dipping, the nets are given two marks, firstly they are marked "MCP" with an indelible
ink to denote the Malaria Control Programme (MCP). Finally, they are marked with a
washable ink indicating, (a) the dipping and (b) re-dipping dates. This second marking helps
the programme to check whether nets have been washed. This is ascertained during the
routing field checks, done in collaboration with the PHU staff and Area Development
Committees.
The programme provides basic sanitation tools (wheelbarrows, rakes, shovels, etc) to the
communities.
The nets are sold on a cost-recovery basis to the community supervised by the PHU staff.
9.2    Awareness raising
This starts with a Knowledge, Attitudes and Practice (KAP) survey on malaria within the
community. This is followed by sensitisation of community leaders including the Area
Development Committee (ADC).
A training of trainers (TOT) is then organised for each community, selecting community
members. Topics covered include: -
* What is malaria
*  Malaria prevention and control within the community
*  Environmental sanitation and malaria control
*  Insecticide-treated bed-nets
24



* Dipping of bed-nets
*  Disposal of chemicals/insecticides
* Plan of action
Within the ADC, a bed-net committee is formed. The members hold regular meetings with
the net-users.
The programme also organises TV and radio discussions, develops and posts posters in
strategic locations and conducts regular health education sessions within the communities.
10.0 MEDICAL WASTE MANAGEMENT AND PREVENTION OF
NOSOCOMIAL INFECTIONS
Currently, there are no policy, laws, regulations or guidelines for the management of health-care
wastes in Sierra Leone. Up to now, the authorities have had limited knowledge about the
characteristics, quantities and qualities of health-care wastes produced in the country.
Consequently, specific instructions for the waste handling inside and outside the health-care
facilities are unknown. Health care staffs are little conscious about the risks of nosocomial
infections; measures to prevent these are rarely enforced. SHARP provides for incineration of
medical wastes.
Incineration
This option is chosen for treatment and/or disposal of medical wastes for the project under
review. On-site incineration followed by burial of residues (ash) in lined pits is proposed. The
incinerators will be installed within the existing hospital compounds; no new land will be
acquired for this.
Incineration of medical wastes has the following advantages and disadvantages:
Advantages
* Good disinfection efficiency
* Drastic reduction of weight and volume (up to 5%)
Disadvantages
Efficiency of chemical & pharmaceutical waste treatment good for rotary kiln, - 95%
for pyrolytic incinerator, very limited for lower temperatures/
* Toxic emission to air if no control devices
Maintaining temperature levels (and efficiency) in field incinerators is difficult
* Usually high costs for high temperature incineration
Waste not to be incinerated
* Pressurized gas containers
* Large amounts of reactive chemical waste
* Radioactive waste
* Silver salts or radiographic waste
* Mercury or cadmium
* Ampoules of heavy metals
Social and environmental impacts of Incineration
Smoke nuisance and the generation of toxic emissions into the atmosphere are potential
negative impacts of incineration. The ash and wastewater produced by the process also
25



contain toxic compounds, which have to be treated to avoid adverse effects on health and the
environment. Consequently, certain precautions must be taken to prevent human exposure and
to ensure that the waste is efficiently treated.
Based on the above discussion the following mitigation measure are suggested: -
1. Incinerators should be appropriately sited and installed with appropriate chimney
heights to avoid smoke nuisance
2. Exhaust gas cleaning facilities must be installed to munimise or control air pollution
3. Operators must be trained
4. Regular monitoring of flue gas to determine effluent quality.
5. Incineration ash must be deposited in lined-pits within the hospital compound nearby
the incinerator and area fenced to allow limited access.
6. Wastes not to be incinerated must be disposed of otherwise or recycled
Nosocomial infections
Concerning prevention of nosocomial infection, there is no systematic approach in the country.
Because of the AIDS epidemic there is a growing interest to prevent nosocomial infections.
Recently there was a strike of nurses because of poor conditions of service, including the lack of
protective medical supplies such as gloves. However there is still lack of consciousness about
the risk of contracting infections in the health facilities. Currently, the only preventive measure
in case of accidental needle injury is a tetanus injection.
The issue is not easy to address but it is possible. It should start with making people realize the
risks of their daily work. Standards and procedures must be developed to handle sharp
instruments and soiled materials. Everyone involved in performing surgical procedures should
be equipped with proper instruments and protective clothing. Special attention should be given
to the lower cadre, because they are often unaware of the risks and are usually neither trained
nor do they dispose of proper handling materials or protective clothing. Training materials do
exist in appropriate form and can be used with little adaptation necessary.
A comprehensive medical waste management plan prepared under SHARP is annexed for use
under the proposed project.
In the action plan, the following issues will be addressed:
* Advocacy at national level to secure government commitment.
* Develop a national policy and regulatory framework on waste management
* Integrate waste minimization into national purchasing policies.
* Make instruments to develop plan of action with practical targets and budget for the
health institutions
* Develop educational materials and training modules for:
a. Health workers;
b. Medical waste handlers;
c. Municipal waste handlers;
d. The population
* Organize training at District and Chiefdom levels for health-care workers and the
community on the nsk associated with health-care waste and safe management
practices, with priority for waste-handlers;
* Make available the materials to facilitate medical waste management.
* Ensure that all health-care establishments segregate their waste into harmful and non-
harmful categories;
* Ensure that all health-care establishments implement safe handling, storage,
transportation, treatment and disposal options;
26



*  Include health-care waste management and prevention of nosocomial infection into
the training curricula of Nurses, Public Health Inspectors, Community Health
Officers and Doctors;
*  Ensure incinerator flue gas cleaning by installing cleaning devices;
*  Ensure routine monitoring of impact through process indicators.
11.0   PROPOSED MITIGATING MEASURES AND COST ESTIMATES
This section attempts to provide a detailed account of measures that shall be adopted to avoid,
reduce or remedy all those adverse impacts as identified in the section dealing with
environmental and social impacts of the proposed project.
Cost estimates of mitigating measures are annexed.
11.1   Creation of open pits
The borrow pits created as a result of excavation for rehabilitation and other purposes can be
refilled after rehabilitation of buildings. Nearby matenals, (earth) can be used for this
purpose.
11.2   Production of rehabilitation waste materials
A clean up programme will have to be put in place. This should involve the clearing of
dangerous materials like nails, pieces of timber, broken blocks, scattered sand and gravel,
pieces of iron, mortar mixing waste water, saw dust etc. where recycling or reuse is possible,
this should be done e.g. sawdust can be used as manure in the experiment health-facility
gardens.
11.3 Loss of biodiversity
Community based tree planting will be undertaken as far as the terrestrial environment is
concerned.
11.4   Pollution
This is more relevant at the rehabilitation stage of the project and would be minimised once
the health-care facilities become fully operational. Post-rehabilitation materials should be
cleared and properly disposed of. Residual paint can be used in arts & crafts classes. Non-
lead based paints are recommended in order to further safeguard the health of humans and the
environment. Dust pollution should be reduced after post rehabilitation era, through paving
of alleys and planting of grass. Potential air quality reduction due to incineration should be
considered through constant monitoring and cleaning of incinerator flue gas.
The potential negative environmental impacts of improper healthcare wastes disposal include
pollution of the land, water resources and the air. As mentioned earlier, SHARP has
developed a medical waste management-training plan and will also develop a comprehensive
waste management plan with its associated monitoring and mitigation plans. It will only be
reiterated that since SHARP will become effective before HSRDP and both projects will be
operating in the same four districts, there is no need for duplication.  It is highly
recommended that both project reconcile their resources.
27



12.0 PROPOSED INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT
The national and local institutional framework for environmental management and protection
is the overall structure, which is designed to protect, conserve and restore our environment.
The social structure in each district described earlier is important for the development of
environmental management strategy at the local level therefore; any proposed framework
should take cognisance of this structure.
Environmental and social management at the local level is for now carried out by Community
Based Organisations (CBOs) and Non-Govemmental Organisations (NGOs), which operate
through local groups, mainly youths.  Environmental Management activities are often
associated with reforestation programmes, sensitisations and regulation enforcement. These
CBOs and NGOs are co-ordinated by the Department of Environment that has posted
environmental officers to Northem, Southem and Eastern regions of the country.
At the chiefdom levels the community groups are often empowered to arrest people who
degrade the environment and pose a threat to the health and wealth of the community.
The National Environment Protection Board (see section 4) is at the helm of the
environmental management in the country and facilitates co-ordination, co-operation and
collaboration amongst government ministries, local authorities, international and local NGOs
and other agencies.  The National Focal Point (NFP), which is the Department of
Environment (DOE) acts as secretariat to the Board. The Department of Environment is
expected to establish Provincial, District and Chiefdom Environmental Committees to
implement policies at the local level.
The proposed framework therefore envisages a bottom - up approach wherein the local
communities (rural areas) will be assisted to develop and execute projects related to
mitigation measures identified in the EA. The respective District Health Management Teams
have agreed to work in collaboration with their Distnct Environmental Officers on this issue.
At the project level, environmental management will involve the coordination of activities,
which will be taken onboard by the health facilities rehabilitation project management
committees, which will include people (one environmental officer per district) knowledgeable
in environmental matters. The Environment Ministry has already assigned these trained
officers to the respective districts to the respective districts to the respective districts.
13.0 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MONITORING INDICATORS
The EA shows that new land will be acquired for landfill sites, and temporal open pits will be
created.
The social indicators include:  Employment rates, access to basic social services and
economic govemance.
Some of the above indicators can be used during the project implementation phase.
These could include but not restricted to:
*  Number and size of open pits that can be used during rehabilitation period.
*  Amount of agricultural land that will be lost as a consequence of landfill site
development.
28



On the social front the indicators can include:
*  Number of labourers employed
*  Level of remuneration for employees
*  Amount and type of sanitation facilities provided
*  Number of local people trained in various skills of rehabilitation during the
project
* Types of water-borne diseases prevalent in the areas
14.0 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MONITORING PLANS
14.1   Management Goals and Objectives
The main goal of this plan is to aid the management of hospitals, health centres and other
health infrastructure, so that adverse effects on the localities and physical environment and
any other adjacent socio-economic activities are minimized.
The objectives of the plans are to:
* Recommend standards and guidelines for rehabilitation activities
* Recommend improvements on the procedures and monitoring.
* Provide a criterion for the selection, development and operation of sanitary landfill sites.
GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS
1. The E.A. showed that the environmental impacts are manageable, therefore it is
recommended that the project as proposed be carried out with the mitigation
measures as proposed by this summary report
2. That this report be made available to all stake holders involved in the project.
29



PERSONS AND INSTITUTION CONTACTED
The Ministry of Lands, housing, country planning and the environment, at National
Level.
Ministry of Health and Sanitation at National level
Paramount Chiefs, Elders, general public of target communities and local NGOs of
Koinadugu, Moyamba, Bombali and Kono districts.
The respective Distnct Health Management Team Members.
Programme Managers of the Malaria Control, Tuberculosis Control, HIV/AIDs and
Environmental Health Programmes of the Ministry of Health and Sanitation and their
respective District Focal Point Persons in Moyamba, Bombali, Kono and Koinadugu
Districts.
The Regional Environmental Officers.
World Bank Supervision Mission for the Integrated Health Sector Investment Project
- April 15 - 27, 2002.
Mr. Foday Koroma - Entomologist, MOHS
Mr Daniel Tholley - Hydro geologist, National Onchocerciasis Control Programme.
30



REFERENCES
1. National Environmental Protection Act, 2000
2. National Environmental Policy
3. National Environmental Action Plan Vol. I and Vol. II
4. World Bank Safeguard policies (Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01 October 1998)
5. Sierra Public Health Ordinance
6. Draft National Environmental Health Policy
7. Health-care waste Management Study for Sierra Leone, November 2001
8. Preserving the environment: a major OCP concern over the past twenty-five years,
2002 World Health Organisation
9. Sierra Leone Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project, Project
Appraisal Document, November 2001.
10.    Sierra Leone Integrated Health Sector Investment Project (IHSIP), Supervision
Mission (April 15 - 27, 2002); AIDE-MEMOIRE
31



ANNEX 1: Mitigation Plan and Estimated
Activity                        Objective               Funding Source           Responsible Organisation  Estimated       Time Frame         Supervising
Costs USD                         Agency
Covering up of open pits        To ensure that water born                        MOHS/Local authorities/                                      Department     of
and related diseases are     HSRDP/MOHS          Community groups, Govt             4,000  Construction Phase  Environment
minimised                                        Agencies
Environmental Education        To   ensure  community                                                                                         Department     of
sensitisation  and  long     HSRDP/MOHS           Environmental Officers and       40,000  Project Duration    Environment
term      environmental                                   DHMTs
management
Condutt    Capacity   Building  To train Environmental                                                                                        Department     of
Workshops                      Health Officers on           HSRDP/MOHS                                                                        Environment
Environmental protection                                   -Do-                    20,000         -Do-
issues
Tree Planting                   To restore the aesthetic     HSRDP/MOHS              The Communities                                          Department     of
value of the environment                                                            4,000         -Do-         Environment
Develop 4 district sanitary landfill  To ensure safe disposal of                                                                              Department     of
sites                           wastes                      HSRDP/MOHS           Environmental Officers and                                   Environment
DHMTs                    190,000        2003
Community Participation         To  ensure  waste  are     Respective District       Respective District           40,000   Project Duration  Environmental
transported  to the  4        Communities              Communities                                             Health Division
district landfill sites
Construct 4 Incinerators and lined  To ensure safe disposal of  HSRDP/MOHS       Environmental Officers and        23,000        2003         Department     of
ash pits                       the   infectious  medical                                 DHMTs                                                Environment
wastes
Technical Assistance to advice on  To ensure proper siting,                                                                                   Department     of
landfills and environmental issues  development    and      HSRDP/MOHS           Environmental Officers and                                   Environment
__operation of landfill sites                             DHMTs                    10,000         2003
Train EHO   on operation and    To ensure efficient                                                                                           Department     of
maintenance of incinerators in 4  operation and             HSRDP/MOHS           Envtronmental Officers and                                   Environment
districts                       maintenance of                                           DHMTs                     19,000        2003
incinerators
Empty septic tanks and lined ash  To avoid overflowing of   HSRDP/MOHS           Environmental Officers and        20,000    Project duration  Department    of
pits                           sewage and ashes                                          DHMTs                                                Environment
Monitoring and supervision     To assess status and                              Environmental Officers and        20,000   Project duration  Department     of
supportive supervision       HSRDP/MOHS                   DHMTs                                                Environment
..__ ____ ___ ____ ____ ___   .__  . __I               Total USD                390,000                     _
NOTE: $40,000 will come from community participation and $350,000 from HSRDP



Annex 2 - Monitoring Plan
Activity  Technical    Parameters    Methods to be   Sampling      Frequency    Institution  Institution for  Duration   Costs
Details       To be        used            Locations     Of           for          monitoring                  Estimates in
Measured                                    Measureme    implementa implementation                USD.
nts          tion
Water      Relates to   Chemical and  Laboratory and  Landfill      Monthly      Public      Environment
quality    pollution/   micro         physical analysis effluents and            Health       Officers        2003-2007           78,600
Tests     Contaminati  organisms                     potentially                Laboratory   NAS/ARG/EHD
on                                         affected
watercourses
Air          -Do-       Odour,        Visual          Construction  Daily for    Public      Environment
Quality                 visibility,   observation and  Sites,       odour and    Health      Officers         2003-2007          117,000
analysis                chemicals    laboratory      incinerator-   visibility,  Laboratory  NAS/ARG/EHD
analysis        chutes        and monthly
for air
analysis
Soil         -Do-       Chemical and  Laboratory and  Construction  Monthly      Public      Environment
analysis                micro         physical analysis and landfill             Health      Officers         2003-2007          156,000
organisms                     sites                      Laboratory   NAS/ARG/EHD
Total USD         351,600
NOTE: THESE ACTIVITIES ARE TO BE FUNDED BY SHARP
33



Annex 3 - Medical Waste Management ACTION PLAN FOR THE FOUR SHARP DISTRICTS
No. ACTIVITY                                                       2002   2003   2004
l    Strengthen Environmental Health Division                        X      X
2    Adapt modules for nosocomial infections                                X
3    Adapt modules for medical waste management                             X
4    Training of Trainers and District Supervision                          X
5    Training on nosocomial infections                                      X
6    Training on medical waste management                                   x
7    Preparation of a national plan for medical waste management     X
NOTE: THESE ACTIVITIES ARE TO BE FUNDED BY SHARP



Annex 4: CRITERIA FOR SECLECTING, DEVELOPING AND OPERATING
SANITARY LANDFILL SITES.
A sanitary landfill is a contained and engineered structure, which leads to anaerobic biodegradation and consolidation of compacted waste materials
within confining layers of compacted soil. In a sense, a sanitary landfill is a bioreactor. At a sanitary landfill, there are no nuisance impacts of constant
burning, smoke, flies, and unsightly rubbish heaps. However, because the waste is not exposed to rainfall, surface runoff or groundwater, leachates
consists largely of the waters generated during biodegradation. Therefore, leachates generated from a sanitary landfill is typically much more
concentrated in organics and metals than the leachates generated from an open dump, often by a factor of more than 10, and thus needs to be properly
treated. Similarly, because of the anaerobic nature of decomposition, methane is generated and needs to be properly ventilated.
Sanitary landfills located in and areas with limited potential infiltration may have more relaxed design requirements than those located in wet areas.
Similarly, sanitary landfills located on coastal lands underlain by naturally undrinkable groundwater may have more relaxed design requirements than
those in inland areas overlying potential usable groundwater regimes.
In summary, as described below, a sanitary landfill design would need to have structural integrity over the long term, provide for daily cover of fresh
waste, and incorporate mitigating measures to manage leachates and gas produced within the landfill cells.
A Sanitary landfill is a step-by-step construction activity involving daily layering, compacting, and soil covering of waste into cells. The site should not
be subject to seasonally high groundwater levels or to periodic flooding. The site preparation and landfill operations must be designed to minimize
contact of surface runoff and percolating rainwater with the waste. This requires diversion of up gradient surface drainage away from the landfill
operational area, sloping of the cells to avoid ponding of waters on top of them, and compaction of waste and soil as each cell is being constructed so
that infiltration potential is minimized.
At sites where potentially usable groundwater exists in unconfined layers, any rain and surface runoff waters, which percolate through the waste and
become contaminated leachates, need to be collected. The leachates collection system consists of a network of perforated pipe within a gravel bed,
which is placed over the landfill liner. At a munimum the liner would consist of a layer of impermeable clay soil placed in thin layers at optimum
moisture content and compacted with a roller. At large landfills receiving municipal waste for major metropolitan areas or at co-disposal landfills where
hazardous waste quantities could be received in significant quantities, additional liners made from impermeable geomembrane material may be
necessary to protect sensitive groundwater resources. The landfill liner and the leachates collection network need to be properly sloped to enable gravity
flow of contaminated water to treatment ponds.
35



The ponds would be designed to encourage anaerobic decomposition, followed by aerobic decomposition. To the extent possible, full evaporation in the
final pond is desired so that no discharge of treated effluent is necessary. If full evaporation is not possible, recycling of treated effluent back to the
landfill (on the completed areas of fill), discharge to a sewage treatment plant, or tanker haul to a sewage treatment plant is recommended. Discharge to
surface water is not acceptable unless the treated effluent can be assured of not having a significant adverse impact on the water quality requirements of
the receiving water.
In addition to leachates management, landfill gas management is a critical component of every sanitary landfill design. Minimum requirements are that
the landfill gases would need to be properly ventilated. During site preparation, the landfill side slopes are lined with impermeable clay to curtail lateral
migration of the gases, and then lined with coarse rock or gravel to allow gases to escape to the atmosphere. Within every 0.1 hectare, or less, of the
waste cell development area, landfilling would be conducted around a gas ventilation structure consisting of either a perforated pipe packed in gravel or
a rock-filled wire mesh enclosure.
Construction of a sanitary landfill occurs in regular phases, over the life of the site. At the start of construction, the access road, entrance gate,
weighbridge, fencing, water supply and Phase I waste cell areas are constructed. Leachates treatment facilities to handle flows generated at the peak
period over the life of the site are constructed from the onset. Once the capacity of the Phase I waste cell area is nearly utilized, the Phase II waste cell
area requires site preparation and construction (i.e., the Phase II liners, leachates collection networks, gas ventilation systems etc). And so on, over the
life of the site, until each Phase of the landfill is completed. Each Phase typically has 3 to 5 years of waste capacity.
Each sanitary landfill is uniquely designed to conform to the soil, geologic, topographic, and water resource conditions of the site. To minimize the
costs of operating a sanitary landfill, the first and most critical step is proper siting in a location, which enables economic operations and cost-effective
environmental protection. Also, proper siting is essential to minimizing the cost of waste collection.
The following site selection critena are provided as guidance. A proposed landfill site can be selected even though it does not meet each of the
screening criteria. Engineering design can mitigate inadequate site conditions, but at a cost. When selecting a site, which does not meet all of the
screening criteria, possible engineering solutions, which would bring the site into conformance with the intent of the unmet critena, shall be
incorporated in the design. Critena, which shall be addressed as part of a screening process, neither includes, but is not limited to, the following:
*      Adequate land area and volume to provide sanitary landfill capacity to meet projected needs for at least 10 years.
*      A site accessible within 30 minutes travel time (a function of road and traffic conditions) is to be sought, even if it means buying land, because
of the need to avoid adversely affecting the productivity of collection vehicles. At distances greater than 30 minutes travel, for collection
operations to be economic, investment in either large capacity collection vehicles (5 tons. per load or greater) or transfer stations with large
capacity vehicles (20 tons. or greater) would be necessary.
36



*      If transfer stations are necessary, landfill sites should be accessible within 2 hours travel time one-way from the transfer station.
*      Groundwater's seasonally high table level (i.e., 10 year high) is at least 1.5 meters below the proposed base of any excavation or site
preparation to enable landfill cell development
*      Soils above the groundwater's seasonable high table level are relatively impermeable (preferably, less than 10-9 meters/second permeability
when undisturbed).
*      No environmentally significant wetlands of important biodiversity or reproductive value are present within the potential area of the landfill cell
development, unless they have adequate capacity to absorb/assimilate the pollution loadings anticipated.
*      None of the areas within the landfill boundaries are part of the 10-year groundwater recharge area for existing or pending water supply
development.
*      No private or public drinking, irrigation, or livestock water supply wells within 500 meters down gradient of the landfill boundaries, unless
alternative water supply sources are readily and economically available and the owner(s) gives written consent to the risk of well abandonment.
*      No known environmentally rare or endangered species breeding areas or protected living areas are present within the site boundaries.
*      No significant protected forests are within 0.5km of the landfill cell development area.
*      No major lines of electrical transmission or other infrastructure (i.e., gas, sewer, water mains) are crossing the landfill cell development area,
unless the landfill operation would clearly cause no concem or rerouting is economically feasible.
*      No underlying limestone, carbonate or other porous rock formations which would be incompetent as barners to leachates and gas migration,
where the formations are more than 1.5 meter in thickness and present as the uppermost geologic unit.
*      No underlying underground mines which could be adversely affected by surface activities of landfilling, or munes resources, which could be
rendered less accessible by landfilling, unless the owner(s) gives explicit consent.
*      No residential development within 0.25km from the perimeter of the proposed landfill cell development.
*      No visibility of the proposed landfill cell development area from residential neighbourhoods within lkm. If residents live within lkm of the site,
landscaping and protective berms would need to be incorporated into the design to minimize visibility of operations.
*      No perennial stream within 0.03km down gradient of the proposed landfill cell development, unless culverting or channelling is economically
and environmentally feasible to protect the stream from potential contamination.
*      No significant seismic risk within the region of the landfill, which could cause destruction of berms, drains or other civil works, or require
unnecessarily costly engineering measures.
*      No fault lines or significantly fractured geologic structure within 0.5 km of the perimeter of the proposed landfill cell development, which
would allow unpredictable movement of gas or leachates.
*      Topography amenable to development of sanitary landfill by the Cell (Bund) and/or Trench method. The Area method is not preferred because
of its higher energy and soil cover requirements.
37



Availability on-site of suitable soil covers materials to meet the needs for intermediate (minimum of 30cm depth) and final cover (minimum of
60cm depth), as well as bund construction (for the Cell method of landfill). Preferably, the site would also have adequate soil to also meet daily
cover needs. However, daily cover (usually a minimum of 15cm depth of soil) needs can be alternatively met by using removable tarps or by
removing the previously laid daily soil cover at the start of each day for reuse at the end of the same day. For purposes of this siting, assume
that at least 1 cubic meter of daily, intermediate, and final soil cover is needed for every 10 cubic meters of compacted waste.
No Siting within 3 km of a turbojet airport and 1.6 km of a piston-type airport. For sites located more than 3 km and less than 8 km from nearest
turbojet airport (or more than 1.6 km and less than 8 km from the nearest piston-type airport), no consideration is to be given unless the aviation
authority has provided written permission stating that it considers the location as not threatening to air safety.
No siting within a floodplain subject to 10-year floods and, if within areas subject to a 100-year flood, must be amenable to an economic design,
which would eliminate the potential for washout.
Avoid siting within lkm of socio-politically sensitive sites where public acceptance might by unlikely (i.e., memorial sites, churches, schools).
Area accessible by a competent paved public road, which can accommodate the additional truck traffic without significant effect on traffic flow
rates. From the public road into the site, the access road to be constructed should be less than lOkm for large landfills serving metropolitan areas
and less than lkm for small landfills serving secondary cities.
38



