Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H0210 SL 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
Dated February 28, 2003
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H0210 SL 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 28, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF SIERRA 
LEONE (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B) 
the Association was authorized, under Resolution No. 549 adopted on 
September 29, 2002, by the Board of Governors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the “Bank”), to use the funds transferred to the 
Association out of the Bank’s fiscal year 2002 net income to provide financing in the 
form of grants and the development grant set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the 
Grant) is consistent with such policies; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as 
amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of 
this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) Article 
II; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(iv) 
Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.05 and 4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) Article 
VIII; 
(viii) Article 
IX; 
(ix) 
Article X;  
(x) 
Article XI; and  
(xi) 
 Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03, 12.04 and 12.05. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(ii) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Development Grant Agreement; 
(iii) 
the term “Credit” and “credit”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant;  
(iv) 
the term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account; and 
 
(v)  
Section 12.05 is modified to read as follows: 
“This Development Grant Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder 
shall terminate on February 28, 2015.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
“District Health Management Teams” means the teams set up by MOHS 
(as hereinafter defined) within each district, to be responsible for, among other things, 
preparing annual district budgets, planning, financial management, disbursements and 
supervision of MOHS (as hereinafter defined) activities within each district; 
(b) 
“DOTS” means Direct Observed Treatment Short-course, a strategy 
promoted by the World Health Organization to control tuberculosis; 
(c) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan dated November 
2002, prepared by the Recipient and referred to in paragraph C.1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of the 
Project, including plans for medical waste management and solid waste management, as 
well as the administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of 
said plan, as such plan may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the 
Association; 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Health Sector Goods” means Pharmaceuticals (as hereinafter defined), 
medical and medical support equipment and ambulances; 
(f) 
“HIV/AIDS” means Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus / Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome; 
(g) 
“IEC” means Information, Education and Communication activities; 
(h) 
“Leones” means the currency of the Recipient; 
(i) 
“MOHS” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health and Sanitation; 
(j) 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization operating under the 
laws of the Recipient; 
(k) 
“Pharmaceuticals” means drugs, vaccines, reagents, contraceptives, 
micro-nutrients and/or condoms; 
(l) 
“Priority Districts” means the Recipient’s districts of Bombali, 
Koinadugu, Kono and Moyamba, identified and selected by the Recipient for purposes of 
this Project; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(m) 
“Private Sector” means Private Sector entities operating under the laws 
of the Recipient, including, but not limited to, NGOs, religious leaders, local 
communities, companies and groups of people or organizations, which/who are involved 
in health sector related activities and which/who are participating in or may participate in 
activities under the Project; 
(n) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan referred to in paragraph B 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time in 
agreement with the Association, and such term includes an operational manual, an 
accounting manual, a procurement plan and any other schedules to the Project 
Implementation Plan;
 
(o) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on May 29, 2002 and on behalf of the Recipient on July 8, 
2002; 
(p) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the policy framework dated 
October 2002, prepared by the Recipient and referred to in paragraph C.2 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement, which sets out the principles and procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of displaced persons, as well as 
administrative, reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with the 
framework as such framework may be revised from time to time with the agreement of 
the Association; 
(q) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(r) 
“TB” means Tuberculosis. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fifteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 15,100,000) (the Grant). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
Page  6
-
5
-
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2008 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association commitment charges 
on the principal amount of the Grant respectively not withdrawn from time to time at 
rates to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charges shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charges shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 and 
November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.06. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
 
Conditions
.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01: (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate public 
health, resettlement, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project: 
(a) 
open, and maintain for the duration of the Project, an  account 
(hereinafter referred to as the Project Account) in Leones in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account an  amount (hereinafter referred to as 
the Initial Amount) equivalent to $25,000, and thereafter: 
(i) 
once each calendar quarter for the first year after the Effective 
Date replenish the Project Account  up to the Initial Amount; and 
thereafter; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(ii) 
once each quarter, replenish the Project Account, up to the 
amount agreed upon during the immediately preceding of the 
reviews referred to in Paragraph D.2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account shall be used only 
for the purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures incurred in the execution of the 
Project which are not financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
Page  9
-
8
-
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) enable 
th
e
Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
Page  10
-
9
-
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Recipient has opened a Project Account pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) 
of this Agreement and has deposited therein the Initial Amount; and 
(b) 
the Recipient has appointed the independent auditor referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
10
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Recipient’s Minister responsible for finance is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
The Minister of Finance 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Ministerial Building 
 
George Street 
 
Freetown, Sierra Leone 
 
Facsimile Number:  232 22 228 472 
 
For the Association:
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
    248423 (MCI) or 
    (202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
      64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
 
By 
/s/ Hassan Conteh 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Callisto E. Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa Region
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
 (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of 
 Expenditures 
to be Financed
1. 
 
Civil works 
 
3,400,000 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
90% of local 
expenditures 
 
2. Goods, 
including 
Pharmaceuticals 
4,600,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
90% of local 
expenditures 
 
3. 
Consultants’ 
services, training 
and audit fees 
 
4,000,000 100% 
 
4. Operating 
costs 
2,100,000 
90% 
 
5. Refunding 
of 
Project Preparation 
Advance 
 
450,000 
Amount due pursuant 
to Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement 
 
6. Unallocated 
550,000 
 
 
TOTAL 
_________ 
15,100,000 
======== 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods, works or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
 
(c) 
the term “operating costs” means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of Project office rental, materials and supplies; vehicle 
operation, maintenance and repair; equipment rental and maintenance; utilities and 
communication expenses; and, travel expenditures and other travel-related allowances; 
but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) expenditures under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each for goods, works and consultant services by firms; (ii) 
expenditures under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each for consultant 
services by individuals; (iii) all contracts for training; and (iv) all operating costs, under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient to: (i) restore the essential 
functions of its health care delivery system; and (ii) strengthen both public and private 
health sector capacities, so as to improve the efficiency and responsiveness of the health 
sector to the needs of the population. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: 
 
Restoring Essential Health Services 
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of MOHS to deliver adequate health services in the 
Priority Districts through: 
(a) 
rehabilitation of four (4) first referral hospitals and twelve (12) health 
centers, including construction of essential staff quarters; and 
(b) 
acquisition of Health Sector Goods, other furniture, equipment and 
vehicles for the above mentioned hospitals and health centers and for fifty (50) health 
posts. 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of MOHS to combat malaria and TB and to improve 
sanitation, through: 
(a) 
acquisition of Health Sector Goods, bed nets and vehicles; 
(b) 
provision of training and technical advisory services to staff of MOHS 
and selected health workers; and 
(c) preparation 
of 
dumpsites; 
3. 
Provision of clinical and related services including waste management. 
Page  16
-
15
-
Part B:
Strengthening Public and Private Sector Capacity
1. 
(a) 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to district health 
staff in planning, supervision, monitoring and evaluation and financial management, for 
the improvement of the performance of District Health Management Teams within the 
Recipient’s districts. 
(b) 
Enhancing the ability of districts to respond to unplanned-for health 
sector activities, including emergencies, disease outbreaks, and supervision, through the 
provision of funding for operational expenditures. 
2. 
Strengthening of key MOHS management functions, including: (i) planning, 
information monitoring and statistics; (ii) donor/NGO coordination; (iii) human resources 
development; and (iv) financial management and procurement, through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training, and the acquisition of equipment.  
3. 
Enhancing Private Sector participation in the health sector through: 
(a) 
carrying out consultations and developing regulations to foster the 
participation by the Private Sector in the delivery of quality health services; 
(b) 
carrying out studies on privatization and contracting out; 
(c) 
provision of incentives to potential Private Sector entities, and  
(d) 
provision of technical assistance and training to selected Private Sector 
participants. 
*** 
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2007. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999  (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the and works to be carried 
out by domestic contractors 
(c) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or 
more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts 
under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
Page  18
-
17
-
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
Health Sector Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, and goods 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
3. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4. Direct 
Contracting
Software, spare parts and accessories which are of a proprietary nature may, with 
the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
5. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Health Sector Goods may be procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services 
Office of the United Nations (IAPSO), or from other United Nations Agencies, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
6. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Page  19
-
18
-
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract to be procured following shopping and 
direct contracting procedures the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide 
to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  20
-
19
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for consultants estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, and for auditors, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  21
-
20
-
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for consultants estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the 
Association. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
Page  22
-
21
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  23
-
22
-
Schedule 4 
Implementation Program 
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
1. 
MOHS shall be responsible for overseeing the implementation, financial 
management, procurement, audit, supervision and monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that: 
(a) 
MOHS shall maintain for the duration of the Project: (i) a Project 
director, who shall be the Director General of Medical Services of MOHS; and (ii) a 
Project coordinator, who shall be the Director of Planning of MOHS both with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association. 
(b) 
MOHS shall maintain for the Project a procurement unit with suitably 
qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers. 
3. 
The Recipient shall maintain within each Priority District, District Health 
Management Teams, which shall be responsible for coordinating Project implementation 
activities within the Priority Districts, including: (i) developing action plans and district 
budgets; (ii) establishing contact with selected Private Sector entities and coordinating 
Project activities that involve them; (iii) evaluating the necessity within their districts for 
Discretionary Funding based on criteria set out in the Project Implementation Plan; and 
(iv) liaising with MOHS on the supervision and monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
B. 
Project Implementation Plan
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in 
the Project Implementation Plan, which gives details of the operational guidelines and 
procedures agreed between the Recipient and the Association for the implementation, 
supervision and monitoring and evaluation of the Project, and includes: 
(i) 
A procurement plan, which contains a global procurement plan covering 
the entire Project, a program of work and a detailed procurement plan for 
the first year of the Project; 
Page  24
-
23
-
(ii) 
An operational manual, which contains the administrative procedures and 
guidelines for the Project, performance indicators and monitoring and 
evaluation guidelines; and 
(iii) 
An accounting manual, which contains the accounting and financial 
procedures and the disbursement arrangements for the Project. 
2. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or 
waive any provision of the Project Implementation Plan, if such amendment or waiver may, 
in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project. 
C. 
Environmental Management Plan and Resettlement Policy Framework
1. 
The Recipient shall implement the Environmental Management Plan in a manner 
designed to ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with sound 
environmental practices and standards, satisfactory to the Association. 
2. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
take all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible any 
involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets or 
income or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently arising from the 
implementation of the Project; and 
(b) 
 for this purpose, implement, and cause to be implemented, the 
Resettlement Policy Framework in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
3. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, the implementation 
of the Environmental Management Plan and the Resettlement Policy Framework; 
(b) 
include the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities in each 
report referred to in paragraph D below, together with any revisions proposed to be 
introduced into such plan and framework in order to achieve their respective objectives; 
and 
Page  25
-
24
-
(c) 
introduce such revisions into the Environmental Action Plan and the 
Resettlement Policy Framework as shall have been agreed to with the Association. 
D. 
Monitoring and Evaluation, Reports and Reviews 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in 
Schedule 7 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof. 
2. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall, not later than October 31 of each year, undertake, in 
conjunction with the Association and other stakeholders, an annual review of the Project 
or, in the case of the review to be undertaken not later than September 30, 2005, a 
midterm review, during which they shall exchange views generally on all matters relating 
to the progress of the Project, and the performance by the Recipient of its obligations 
under this Agreement, including the progress achieved by the Recipient under the Project, 
having regard to the monitoring indicators agreed upon between the Recipient and the 
Association. 
 
(b) 
Not later than one month prior to each review, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the progress of the Project, and giving details, in particular, of the 
various matters to be discussed at such review. 
 
(c) 
Following each review, the Recipient shall promptly and diligently take 
any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the 
implementation of the Project, and shall implement such other measures as may have been 
agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 through 5 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR3,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the either or both of the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  27
-
26
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  28
-
27
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
For purposes of this Agreement, the Recipient agrees that unless otherwise 
agreed by the Association, Project performance will be measured by the indicators below 
as of the Closing Date of the Project. 
Input Indicators
1. 
At least fifty (50) health posts in the four Priority Districts are fully equipped 
with as specified in the Project Implementation Plan. 
2. 
At least Four (4) District Hospitals in the Priority Districts have been 
rehabilitated and fully equipped with as specified in the Project Implementation Plan. 
3. 
The number of insecticide-treated bed nets purchased under the Project and 
distributed to the population exceeds 750,000. 
Process Indicators:
4. 
The percentage of TB smear-positive cases successfully treated under DOTS 
strategy in the four Priority Districts is at least 85%. 
5. 
At least fifteen (15) laboratories are capable of performing malaria microscopy in 
the territory of the Recipient. 
Output Indicators:
6. 
The health centers rehabilitated and equipped in the four Priority Districts have at 
least 0.5 contacts per inhabitants per year. 
7. 
At least 60 % of deliveries in the four Priority Districts will be assisted by a 
qualified provider. 
8. 
The bed occupancy rates in the hospitals rehabilitated and equipped is  at least 
85%. 
Page  30
-
29
-
9. 
The proportion of new TB smear-positive cases detected in the four Priority 
Districts is at least 70%. 
10. 
The percentage of children under five years of age in the four Priority Districts 
who sleep regularly under insecticide-treated bed nets, is at least 40%.
 
