                                    Document of
                                The World Bank

                                                    Report No: ICR00001396



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                     (IDA-H0210 and IDA-H2890)



                                      ON A

                                     GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR15.1 MILLION
                       (US$ 20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       AND

                       ADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT
                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.3 MILLION
                        (US$8.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE

                                      FOR A

    HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                   May 28, 2010



Human Development Sector
Health, Nutrition and Population (AFTHE)
Country Department AFCW1
Africa Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            Exchange Rate Effective March 2, 2010

                          Leones (Le)
                      Le 3,790 = US$1.00
                    Le 1.00 = US$ 0.000264

                       FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1 -- December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB     African Development Bank
APL      Adaptable Program Lending
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDC      Center for Disease Control and Prevention
CMR      Child Mortality Rate
CPR      Country Procurement Review
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Report
CTB      Central Tender Board
DGA      Development Grant Agreement
DHS      Demographic and Health Survey
DOTS     Direct Observed Treatment Short-course (TB)
DPI      Directorate of Planning and Information
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
EU       European Union
FMR      Financial Management Report
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GF       Global Fund
GIMPA    Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration
GOSL     Government of Sierra Leone
GPN      General Procurement Notice
HNP      Health, Nutrition and Population
HRD      Human Resources Development
HSRDP    Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      International Development Association
IEC      Information, Education and Communication
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IHSIP    Integrated Health Sector Investment Project
KPI      Key Performance Indicator
MDG      Millennium Development Goal
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MICS-2   Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey-2
         Maternal Mortality Ratio
MOHS     Ministry of Health and Sanitation
NGO      Non-Government Organization
NHAP     National Health Action Plan
PCD      Project Concept Document
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PDO      Project Development Objective
PER      Public Expenditure Review
PHC      Primary Health Care
PHRD     Policy and Human Resources Development
PHU      Primary Health Units
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PMR      Project Monitoring Report
RBM      Roll Back Malaria
SAPA     Social Action and Poverty Alleviation
SBCQ     Selection Based on Consultants Qualification
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
TSS      Transitional Support Strategy
TB       Tuberculosis
TTL      Task Team Leader
UN       United Nations
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
UNFPA    United Nations Fund for Population Activities
WA       Withdrawal Application
WBI      World Bank Institute
WHO      World Health Organization




               Vice President   :   Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
             Country Director   :   Ishac Diwan
              Sector Manager    :   Eva Jarawan
            ICR Team Leader     :   Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine
          ICR Primary Author    :   Willy De Geyndt
                      SIERRA LEONE
  HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                                 Table of Contents

A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i 
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i 
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i 
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii 
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii 
F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... iii 
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................. viii 
H. Restructuring ........................................................................................................... viii 
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. ix 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6 
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19 
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower. ............................................................... 24 
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 37 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 38 
Annex 5. Borrower's ICR ............................................................................................. 40 
MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                    Health Sector Reconstruction
Country:            Sierra Leone      Project Name:
                                                    and Development Project
Project ID:         P074128        Grant Numbers: IDA-H0210; IDA-H2890
ICR Date:           March 2, 2010 ICR Type:         Core ICR
                                                    GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA
Lending Instrument: SIL            Borrower:
                                                    LEONE
Original Total                     Disbursed
                    SDR 15.1M                       SDR 18.8M
Commitment:                        Amount:
Revised Amount:     SDR 20.4M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Health and Sanitation
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None.

B. Key Dates
                                                                      Revised / Actual
Process         Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                      Dates
Concept
                10/03/2001         Effectiveness:     05/28/2003      05/28/2003
Review:
Appraisal:      09/30/2002         Restructuring(s):                  05/22/2007
                                   Mid-term
Approval:       02/25/2003                           02/20/2006       02/06/2006
                                   Review:
                                   Closing:          02/28/2008       12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                             Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:          Moderate
Bank Performance:                     Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                 Moderately Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                Ratings           Borrower              Ratings
                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:   Satisfactory      Government:
                                                            Satisfactory
Quality of          Moderately        Implementing          Moderately
Supervision:        Satisfactory      Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory
Overall Bank                          Overall Borrower Moderately
                    Satisfactory
Performance:                          Performance:          Satisfactory


                                             i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                         Indicators                        Rating
Performance                             (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                        Quality at Entry
Project at any time      Yes                               None
                                        (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                 Quality of
                         Yes                               None
time (Yes/No):                          Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)              Percent
Central government administration                         20
Health                                                    70
Solid waste management                                     2
Sub-national government administration                     8


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction       24
Health system performance                                  25
Malaria                                                    25
Other financial and private sector development             13
Participation and civic engagement                         13

E. Bank Staff
Positions               At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:         Obiageli K. Ezekwesili         Callisto Madavo
Country Director:       Ishac Diwan                    Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager:         Eva Jarawan                    Alexandre Abrantes
Project Team Leader:    Evelyn Awittor                 Astrid Helgeland-Lawson
ICR Team Leader:        Jean J. de St. Antoine
ICR Primary Author:     Willy De Geyndt




                                           ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project (HSRDP) is a SIL with some
features of a sector-wide program.

The project's overall development objective was to help restore the most essential
functions of the health sector delivery system. The project would also help achieve the
more specific objectives of: (i) increasing access to affordable essential health services
by improving primary and first referral health facilities in four districts of the country; (ii)
improving the performance of key technical programs responsible for coping with the
country's major public health problems; (iii) strengthening health sector management
capacity to improve efficiency and further decentralize decision-making to the districts;
and (iv) supporting development of the private NGO health sector and involvement of the
civil society in decision-making.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

The Board approved an additional financing grant of US$8 million equivalent on May 22,
2007 that did not change the original project development objective, the general project
design or the implementation modalities.




                                              iii
                                               A. Original Grant
                                            Original Target Formally
                                                                                Actual Value Achieved
                                              Values (from         Revised
     Indicator         Baseline Value                                              at Completion or
                                                approval           Target
                                                                                      Target Years
                                               documents)          Values
                     At least 50 health posts in the four priority districts are fully equipped as
Indicator 1
                     specified in the Project Implementation Plan.
Value
(quantitative or                0                      50                  -                     50
qualitative)
                                                                                      December 18, 2009
Date achieved                 2003                                                  (Equipment Distribution
                                                                                           Report)
Comments             Target achieved.
                     At least 4 district hospitals in the priority districts have been rehabilitated and
Indicator 2
                     fully equipped with as specified in the Project Implementation Plan.
Value
(quantitative or                0                       4                                        3
qualitative)
Date achieved        2003                                           December 31, 2009
Comments             The fourth hospital, Kono Government Hospital is 85% complete
                     The number of insecticide-treated bed nets purchased under the Project and
Indicator 3
                     distributed to the population exceeds 160,000.
Value
(quantitative or                0                   750,000            160,000               160,0001
qualitative)
Date achieved           May 28, 2003                                       December 31, 2009
Comments             Target achieved.
                     The proportion of new TB smear-positive cases successfully treated under
Indicator 4
                     DOTS in the four priority districts is at least 85%.
Value
(quantitative or             76.5%                    85%                  -                  86.1%
qualitative)
Date achieved           May 28, 2006                                         December 31, 2009
Comments             Target achieved
Indicator 5          At least 15 laboratories are capable of performing malaria microscopy.
Value
(quantitative or                2                      15                 24                     26
qualitative)
                                                                                      2008 Health Facility
Date achieved            May 28, 2003
                                                                                        Survey Report
Comments             Target exceeded.



1
  The data is from the Procurement Unit of the MOH and confirmed by the National Malaria Control Program. The
original target value was 750,000, but was reduced to 160,000 at MTR when the GF came on board.


                                                       iv
                                          A. Original Grant
                                           Original Target Formally
                                                                          Actual Value Achieved
                                            Values (from       Revised
    Indicator         Baseline Value                                         at Completion or
                                              approval         Target
                                                                                Target Years
                                             documents)        Values
                   The health centers rehabilitated and equipped in the 4 priority districts have at
Indicator 6
                   least 0.5 contacts per inhabitant per year.
Value
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved
                   This indicator was dropped at restructuring to be replaced by "the
                   percentage of population within one mile radius from the nearest PHU
Comments
                   in the four priority districts", considered a better measure of access to
                   health services.
                   At least 60% of deliveries in the 4 priority districts will be assisted by a
Indicator 7
                   qualified provider.
Value
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved
                   This indicator was dropped at restructuring because there were no
                   corresponding project activities and institutional deliveries would be
Comments
                   addressed under the forthcoming Reproductive and Child Health
                   Project.
                   The bed occupancy rate in the hospital rehabilitated and equipped is at least
Indicator 8
                   85%.
Value
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved
                   This indicator was dropped at restructuring because the "percentage of
Comments           children aged 12-23 months completely immunized" was considered a
                   better measure of utilization.
                   The proportion of new TB smear-positive cases detected in the four priority
Indicator 9
                   districts is at least 70%.
Value
(quantitative or            0%                   70%                -                  47%
qualitative)
Date achieved         May 28, 2003                                           December 31, 2009
Comments           Target not achieved.
                   The percentage of children under five years of age in the 4 priority districts
Indicator 10
                   who sleep regularly under insecticide-treated bed nets is at least 40%.
Value
(quantitative or           1.5%                  40%                -                 66.4%
qualitative)


                                                  v
                                                    A. Original Grant
                                                    Original Target   Formally
                                                                               Actual Value Achieved
                                                     Values (from      Revised
       Indicator           Baseline Value                                        at Completion or
                                                       approval        Target
                                                                                   Target Years
                                                     documents)        Values
Date achieved              May 28, 2003                                          December 31, 2009
Comments                Target largely exceeded.
                                             B. Additional Financing
                        The percentage of pregnant women in the 4 priority districts who sleep
Indicator 11
                        regularly under insecticide-treated bed nets is at least 40%.
Value
(quantitative or                 1.5%                    40%             -             66.6%
qualitative)
Date achieved               May 22, 2007                                          December 31, 2009
Comments                Target exceeded.
                        Percentage of population within 5km radius from the nearest PHU, in the 4
Indicator 12
                        priority districts increase from 41% in 2005 to at least 60% in 2007.
Value
(quantitative or                  41%                    60%             -             67.3%
qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                    December 31, 2009
Comments                Target exceeded
                        Therapeutic coverage of Ivermectin2, nation-wide increase from 0% in 2005 to
Indicator 13
                        70% in 2007.
Value
(quantitative or                  0%                     70%             -             75.3%
qualitative)
                                                                                2008 Oncho Coverage
Date achieved               May 22, 2007                                           Survey Report
                                                                                     15/01/2008
Comments                Target exceeded
                        Increase in geographic coverage of community-directed Ivermectin
Indicator 14
                        distribution from 0% in 2005 to 70% in 20007.
Value
(quantitative or                  0%                     70%             -             100%
qualitative)
                                                                                2008 Oncho Coverage
Date achieved               May 22, 2007
                                                                                   Survey Report



2
    Anti-parasitic medication used against worms.




                                                          vi
                                         A. Original Grant
                                         Original Target      Formally
                                                                       Actual Value Achieved
                                          Values (from         Revised
    Indicator        Baseline Value                                      at Completion or
                                            approval           Target
                                                                           Target Years
                                          documents)           Values
                                                                            15/01/2008
Comments           Target exceeded
                   Percentage of children aged 12-23 months completely immunized is at least
Indicator 15
                   75%.
Value
(quantitative or           45%                  75%                -                79.7%
qualitative)
                                                                             2008 EPI Program
Date achieved         May 28, 2003                                          Report December 31,
                                                                                   2009
Comments           Target exceeded.
                   At least 50% of PHUs in the 4 priority districts have either an incinerator or a
Indicator 16
                   burning pit.
Value
(quantitative or           0%                   50%                -                73.4%
qualitative)
                                                                            2008 Health Facility
Date achieved         May 28, 2003
                                                                              Survey Report
Comments           Target largely exceeded.
                                     B. Additional Financing
                                         Original Target Formally
                                                                        Actual Value Achieved
                                          Values (from      Revised
    Indicator        Baseline Value                                        at Completion or
                                             approval        Target
                                                                             Target Years
                                            documents)       Values
                   The number of health workers trained on surveillance of Avian Influenza
Indicator 17       increased from 0 to 250.
                            0                    0               250                 430




                                                vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                         Actual
        Date ISR
No.                         DO                       IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                     (USD millions)
1     03/26/2003       Satisfactory            Satisfactory               0.00
2     04/29/2003       Satisfactory            Satisfactory               0.00
3     11/13/2003       Satisfactory            Satisfactory               0.61
4     01/16/2004       Satisfactory            Satisfactory               0.96
5     05/11/2004       Satisfactory            Satisfactory               1.43
6     11/11/2004       Satisfactory            Satisfactory               2.03
7     12/30/2004       Satisfactory            Satisfactory               2.39
8     05/24/2005       Satisfactory            Satisfactory               3.89
9     12/14/2005       Satisfactory            Satisfactory               7.39
10    05/08/2006   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory               9.24
11    11/13/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory       12.29
12    01/26/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory       14.66
13    06/12/2007       Satisfactory            Satisfactory              16.94
14    12/21/2007       Satisfactory            Satisfactory              19.17
15    02/28/2008       Satisfactory            Satisfactory              20.15
                                                Moderately
16 06/26/2008      Moderately Satisfactory                               21.56
                                              Unsatisfactory
                                                Moderately
17 12/30/2008      Moderately Satisfactory                               23.60
                                              Unsatisfactory
18 05/20/2009          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory       25.06
19 11/10/2009          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory       26.63
20 12/30/2009          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory       27.49


H. Restructuring

                          ISR Ratings    Amount
                Board
Restructuring                 at       Disbursed at
               Approved
    Date                 Restructuring Restructuring
              PDO Change
                          DO      IP in USD millions
 05/22/2007     None.      S       S       16.94




                                        viii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Sierra Leone endured a devastating civil war from 1992 to 2001. Most
infrastructure and many formal institutions were destroyed or disabled. Some of the
traditional institutions have been resurrected in the post-conflict era. Sierra Leone ranks
near the bottom of the Human Development Index. In particular its social and human
development indicators are deplorable. Life expectancy at birth is estimated to be only 43
years and infant and under-five mortality rates are respectively 170 and 286 per 1,000
live births. The maternal mortality ration is 1,800 per 100,000 live births. The disease
burden is dominated by malnutrition, malaria, tuberculosis, leprosy, acute respiratory
diseases, diarrheal diseases, Lassa fever, onchocerciasis, cholera and other water-borne
diseases. The HIV prevalence rate was estimated by CDC to be about 4.9% in 2002.
Insufficient use of contraceptives keeps fertility rates high. In many respects, the country
is trying to catch up to its development level of three decades ago. Over half a million
people fled the country during the war including up to 40% of its professionals and
skilled workers. In February 2002, peace was declared after a ten year period of
instability and brutal civil war. Since then, the collaboration between the government and
the international community has stabilized the security situation and put an end to
widespread violence and fear. Sierra Leone has now entered a more stable recovery state.

2.      The Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) of 2002-2003 proposed the Health
Sector Reconstruction and Development Project (HSRDP) as one of the lending activities.
The project is fully consistent with the TSS and would rehabilitate health facilities with
priority given to war-torn and underserved areas. Re-establishing the provision of basic
health services and solving major public health problems are crucial steps to
consolidating peace.

3.      Grant financing was justified by the urgent need to restore a functioning health
sector, its strong development impact and as a means to draw greater and broader support
for the sector. At the time, the Bank was the only donor present with an office open in
Sierra Leone. The project was not a sector-wide approach because the government, which
had limited capacity at the time, preferred fully-designed but complementary projects
from donors. Support was subsequently provided by DFID, UNDP and the EU who each
supported a number of districts, in addition to the four supported by the Bank. The
lending instrument is a SIL. Annual reviews were conducted jointly by all donors. DFID,
the World Bank, the UNDP and the EU dominate the aid community. The economy has
improved a good deal since the end of the war, but the country remains deeply dependent
on aid flows which make up 70% of all public expenditures3.




3
 "Parallel Implementation Systems, Capacity And Performance In Sierra Leone" Draft #1 (June 26, 2009) by Peter
Morgan, Capacity Development consultant.


                                                       1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

4.      The project's overall development objective was to help restore the most essential
functions of the health sector delivery system. The project would also help achieve the
more specific objectives of: (a) increasing access to affordable essential health services
by improving primary and first referral health facilities in four districts of the country; (b)
improving the performance of key technical programs responsible for coping with the
country's major public health problems; (c) strengthening health sector management
capacity to improve efficiency and further decentralize decision-making to the districts;
and (d) supporting development of the private NGO health sector and involvement of the
civil society in decision-making.

Key Indicators.

5.     The Development Grant Agreement (DGA) dated February 29, 2003 included the
following ten performance indicators in Schedule 6:

(a) At least 50 health posts in the Priority Districts are fully equipped as specified in the
Project Implementation Plan.
(b) At least 4 district hospitals in the Priority Districts have been rehabilitated and fully
equipped as specified in the Project Implementation Plan.
(c) The number of insecticide-treated bed nets purchased under the project and distributed
to the population exceeds 750,000.
(d) At least 15 laboratories are capable of performing malaria microscopy in the territory
of the Recipient.
(e) The percentage of children under five years of age in the Priority Districts who sleep
regularly under insecticide-treated bed nets, is at least 40%.
(f) The percentage of TB smear-positive cases successfully treated under the directly
observed treatment strategy in the Priority Districts is at least 85%.
(g) The proportion of new TB smear-positive cases detected in the four priority districts
is at least 70%.
(h) The health centers rehabilitated and equipped in the four Priority Districts have at
least 0.5 contacts per inhabitant per year.
(i) At least 60% of deliveries in the four Priority Districts will be assisted by a qualified
provider
(j) The bed occupancy rates in the hospitals rehabilitated and equipped is at least 85%.




                                              2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

6.      The Board approved an additional financing grant of US$8 million equivalent on
May 22, 2007 that did not change the original project development objective, the general
project design or the implementation modalities. The Government had requested
additional financing for three activities that are consistent with the original PDOs, with
the priorities set out in the CAS of May 2005 (to improve the health status of the people
of Sierra Leone) and with the PRSP. These activities were: (a) scale up onchocerciasis
control and prevention, a debilitating and often blinding disease endemic in tropical areas
of Africa, which was expected to be financed from other sources that did not materialize
(US$2.7 million equivalent); (b) strengthen Avian Influenza awareness and preparedness
as there were two known outbreaks of H5N1 (avian flu) in 2006 (US$0.40 million
equivalent); and (c) improve the operational conditions of health facilities by completing
civil works that face cost overruns due to increased unit costs of building materials, and
adding to the original list hospitals and community health centers that lacked adequate
infrastructure to deliver project activities (US$4.75 million equivalent). Additional
financing included an unallocated category of US$0.15 million equivalent. Project
restructuring also financed a smaller amount of malaria control activities as the Global
Fund (GF) was now financing malaria commodities including bed nets.

7.     The Financing Agreement amending the earlier DGA dated July 11, 2007
included the following 15 key indicators replacing two earlier indicators, scaling back
one and adding five new ones4:

                            Indicator                                      Changes from 2003 DGA -
                                                                                  Schedule 6
1. At least 50 health posts in the Priority Districts                   No change
are fully equipped.
2. At least 4 district hospitals in the Priority                        No change
Districts have been rehabilitated and fully
equipped.
3. Percentage of population within one mile radius                      Replaces "assisted deliveries"
from the nearest primary health unit in the Priority                    indicator which will be addressed
Districts increase from 41% in 2004 to at least 60%                     under the forthcoming Child
in 2007.                                                                Survival and Maternal Health
                                                                        Program
4. Twelve (12) primary health facilities fully                          New indicator
rehabilitated and equipped in the Priority Districts.
5. Percentage of children aged 12-23 months                             Replaces an invalid indicator on




4
  The final ISR does not include the last two indicators on this list but adds immunization with DPT3/Penta for
children under one, and Number of patients treated for TB.




                                                           3
completely immunized is at least 75%.                      "bed occupancy rates of 85%"
6. The number of insecticide-treated bed nets              Scaled back from 750,000 - Global
purchased under the project and distributed to the         Fund financing now available for
population exceeds 160,000.                                malaria
7. At least 15 laboratories are capable of                 No change
performing malaria microscopy in the territory of
the Recipient.
8. The percentage of pregnant women in the                 No change
Priority Districts who sleep regularly under
insecticide-treated bed nets is at least 40%.
9. The percentage of pregnant women in the                 Added
Priority Districts who sleep regularly under
insecticide-treated bed nets is at least 40%.
10. The percentage of TB smear-positive cases              No change
successfully treated under the directly observed
treatment strategy in the Priority Districts is at least
85%.
11. The proportion of new TB smear-positive cases          No change
detected in the four priority districts is at least 50%.
12. At least 50% of primary health units in the four       Measures new activity
priority districts have either an incinerator or a
burning pit.
13. Therapeutic coverage of Ivermectin nationwide          Measures new activity
increase from 0% in 2005 to at least 60%.
14. Increase in geographic coverage of community-          Measures new activity
directed Ivermectin distribution from 0% in 2005 to
70%.
15. The number of health workers trained on                Measures new activity
surveillance of Avian Influenza increased from 0 in
2006 to 250.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

8.       Beneficiaries would be the total population for some activities and a subset of the
population for others. Four mid-size rural districts were identified for restoring essential
health services and benefitted the mostly rural population of these districts. The four
districts (out of a total 13) were chosen by the government using the following criteria: (i)
their importance for the demobilization, resettlement and peace processes; (ii) the
magnitude of the public health problems; and (iii) the poor quality of the health
infrastructure that urgently needed rehabilitation.

9.     In principle, the entire population benefitted from the three priority public health
programs (malaria, tuberculosis and sanitation), but the poor derived more benefits as
these conditions mainly affect the indigent and underserved population groups. The
actions to augment the capacity of the public and private sectors through decentralized



                                               4
decision making and improving the performance of district health teams made the health
system more responsive to the needs of the population.

1.5 Original Components

10.     Component 1(US$15.2 million): Restoring essential health services through (i)
restoring health service delivery in four priority districts (Bombali, Koinadugu, Kono and
Moyamba) out of a total 13 districts in the country, and (ii) supporting three priority
technical programs to improve their performance and control infectious diseases of high
public importance in Sierra Leone (malaria, tuberculosis, and sanitation); and

11.      Component 2 (US$5.98 million): Strengthening public and private sector
capacity through (i) fostering decentralization and improving the performance of District
Health Management Teams; (ii) strengthening the key MOHS support programs in the
area of human resources development, planning, financial management, monitoring and
statistics, procurement and donor/NGO coordination; and (iii) promoting development of
the private sector and participation of civil society in the health sector.

1.6 Revised Components

12.    The two original components were not revised for the approved additional
financing.

1.7 Other significant changes

13.     Additional Financing. A request for additional grant in the amount of US$8
million equivalent for restructuring the project was approved by the Board on May 22,
2007. No changes to the project development objective, general design, and
implementation modalities were sought. The additional funds were requested to help
finance the costs associated with (a) completing original civil works activities that face
cost overruns, and (b) implementing additional activities related to the control and
prevention of onchocerciasis and avian influenza. The restructuring would support (a)
modification of key performance indicators to strengthen the project focus on critical
health outcomes, and (b) reducing IDA financing for the malaria program in response to
increased funding for these activities now available from other development partners.

14.     The original ten performance indicators were modified and were increased to 15
in order to measure the activities approved under the additional financing as detailed in
Section 1.3 above. The original IDA funding for malaria was redeployed to other high
priority uses in the health sector as another donor (GF) was now financing the
Government's malaria program. The closing date was extended by 18 months from
February 28, 2008 to August 31, 2009. An additional four month extension was granted
to enable works to be completed on the four district hospitals, three Primary Health Units
and the dumpsites. A Financing Agreement dated July 11, 2007 amended and restated the
DGA.




                                            5
15.     The additional financing was consistent with the Bank's conditions for Additional
Financing as stated in BP 13.20 (June 2005). It was also consistent with the strategic
priorities set out in the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, Report No. 31793,
May 5, 2005) and the PRSP. It supported the long-term country development outcome set
out in the third pillar of the CAS "to improve the health status of the people of Sierra
Leone," and directly feed into the specific CAS outcome "to restore and develop
the health sector in four districts."

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.     Project Preparation. Project preparation was initiated with the issue of a PCD on
July 12, 2001 that received comments from ten peer reviewers. A PHRD grant
(TF026871 and TF026794) from the Japanese Government for US$400,000 (of which
US$210,693 was spent) was received and used for consulting services to conduct studies
such as: Social Assessment; Project Implementation Plan/Operational Manual;
Environmental Assessment; Public Expenditure Review for the health sector; Health
Facility Inventory; Health Sector Priorities Issues and Strategic Approaches; Human
Resources Assessment; Update of the Health Sector Policy; and National and District
Health Plans and a Three-Year-Rolling Plan. A request for a Project Preparation Facility
in the amount of US$593,600 was made by the GOSL on March 5, 2002. The draft PAD
was discussed at a meeting on September 5, 2002 with comments received from one peer
reviewer. The original grant in the amount of SDR 15.1 million (US$20.0 million
equivalent) was approved by the Board on February 25, 2003. The time elapsed between
project initiation and Board approval was 20 months. The Grant Agreement was signed
on February 28, 2003 with an expected closing date of February 28, 2008. The Project's
technical launch took place on April 1-2, 2003 and the grant became effective on May 28,
2003. The total project cost was US$21 million, of which the Government was expected
to finance US$1 million. However, on January 22, 2007, IDA agreed to allow 100
percent financing of all eligible expenditures according to the Country Financing
Parameters. Not contributing the agreed on counterpart funds had been delaying some
project activities, especially the civil works, with contractors not being paid on time.

17.     Comments from the ten reviewers on the PCD were generally supportive of the
relevance, approach and design of the project with suggestions for minor rewording of
PDOs, regrouping the components and subcomponents. On the key performance
indicators they cautioned that it was doubtful that the project would have a measurable
impact on IMR, CMR and MMR. Nonetheless these indicators remained in the PAD but
were subsequently not included in Schedule 6 of the DGA or in the ISRs. Several peer
reviewers pointed out "the long-term special history the Bank has with the MOH" and the
"surprisingly satisfactory past performance of the Ministry of Health under extraordinary
constraints".

18.     The DO and the IP of three earlier Bank-financed projects (HNP, Social
protection, HIV/AIDS) had been rated Satisfactory. A Quality of Supervision of Risky


                                           6
Projects was carried out by a QAG panel for the previous Health Sector project (ID:
P002422) and the panel concluded that the quality of supervision during FY 00 and FY
01 was satisfactory overall. The panel cited that the team had demonstrated strong
commitment by maintaining a dialogue with the Ministry of Health under very difficult
circumstances and by addressing the health problems as the country emerged in a post-
conflict situation. In general, the Bank's contribution to the health sector in Sierra Leone
was much praised by the Borrower and the development partners.

19.    The Government proceeded meanwhile to meet the conditions for negotiations
including improving the accounting and financial system and strengthening the
procurement unit of MOHS, and issuing a procurement plan, an accounting manual and
an operational manual.

20.    Preparation for the additional financing moved swiftly and smoothly in 2007 with
Board approval in May and signing of the Financing Agreement in July.

Project Design.

21.     The project concept of this Sector Investment Loan was well justified and, given
the satisfactory past performance of the MOHS under extraordinary constraints, was
judged to have a reasonable chance to be properly implemented. The overall objective
was stated simply as helping to restore the most essential functions of the health delivery
system. The two components addressed specific health sector issues, i.e. improving
essential health services in four districts, reducing the disease burden of three public
health priority programs (malaria, tuberculosis and sanitation), and strengthening five
MOHS key departments. Some features of the earlier satisfactory sector-wide health
program were retained, namely, annual review of the relevance of activity-specific
allocations, an operational planning process, coordination of donor support, and
promoting the development and use of the private sector and civil society in general. The
project also retained the earlier implementation approach of not creating a separate
project implementation unit (PIU) but to implement the project through the MOHS
organizational structure. This latter feature was retained based on the MOHS having
succeeded to implement the previous credit satisfactorily in spite of the difficult
conditions that prevailed in the country from 1995 to 2001.

22.     The MOHS was the overall executing agency of the grant contracting out some
activities to NGOs and the provision of selected technical programs to private not-for-
profit providers under the purview of the Planning Department and the guidance of the
Director General of Medical Services. The Bank preparation team was well staffed with a
skills mix that included specialists in public health, infectious diseases, procurement,
financial management, and implementation.

23.     Critical risks are judged to be conservative. Six of the seven risks listed in the
PAD were rated as substantial and one as moderate. Risk mitigation measures were
largely hopeful and optimistic. Peace was gradually returning to Sierra Leone but there
were still high risks in restoring health care delivery in the selected areas in an unstable



                                             7
political situation, recruiting and deploying staff to these areas and ensuring their
availability when the infrastructure was completed, coordinating donor support and
effectively applying a decentralization policy. The project was mainly dependent on
donor-funding and aspects of the project requiring continuous funding (civil
works/maintenance, training medical personnel, drug supplies) raise issues of
sustainability over the long run.

24.     Financial implementation arrangements were sensible. A warning note was
sounded about the risks and practicalities of the flow of funds to decentralized units given
the poor or non-existent banking system in certain areas and the ability to safeguard and
control decentralized funds.

25.      The Project Paper for the Additional Financing noted some of the risks that were
classified as substantial at the time of Project approval that were being addressed, namely,
the risk of weak capacity of the MOHS to implement sector reform was downgraded
from substantial to moderate and the risk associated with insufficient political
determination to effect the decentralization policy had become negligible. The
Government was implementing a decentralization policy with primary health
decentralized to the local councils. The risk of poor coordination of donor programs was
downgraded from substantial to moderate. The same paper stated that while Sierra Leone
was rated as a high risk country due to poor governance, the ministry has implemented
the on-going project effectively and efficiently, with no significant problems related to
financial management or procurement.

Quality at Entry.

26.     The project was well prepared and ready for implementation. A PHRD Grant of
US$ 400,000 from the Japanese Government was used to conduct studies including: (i) a
social assessment; (ii) Operational Manual; (iii) Project Implementation Plan; (iv)
Environmental Assessment; (v) Public Expenditures Review for the Health Sector; (vi)
Health Facility Inventory; (vii) Health Sector Priority Issues and Strategic Approaches;
(viii) Human Resources Assessment; (ix) update of the Health Sector Policy; and (x)
National and District Health Plans and a Three-Year-Rolling Plan. In addition, Project
Preparation Facility funds were used by the government to develop and update financial
accounting manual and improve FM systems required under the project.

27.    There was already a PIU under the previous Health Sector Project with staff
having experience in the implementation of Bank-financed projects. Most of them were
contracted for the Health Sector reconstruction project.

28.    The financial management and procurement assessment concluded that the MOH
had the proper structure and systems to implement the project, all properly documented in
an Operational Manual. The engineering design documents for the first year's activities
were complete and ready for the start of project implementation. The procurement
documents for the first year's activities were also complete and ready. The Project
Implementation Plan was appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.


                                             8
There was only one main condition on counterpart funding and it was easily complied
with.

29.    The results framework included 15 indicators which would measure the
contribution of the project to its objective. Baseline data were not available at appraisal,
but were collected during the annual sector review and operational planning exercise for
2003. The indicators were largely well chosen, except for thee of them (indicators 6-8)
which were dropped at restructuring.

2.2 Implementation

30.     Disbursement Overview. Disbursements were slow at the outset with only 9%
disbursed after 1 1/2 year of operations. Subsequent years saw accelerated rates of
disbursements of 33%, 55% and 86% respectively by the end of 2005, 2006 and 2007.
With the additional financing the disbursement rate dropped to 77% in 2008 but the
overall disbursement rate by closing in December 2009 was US$27.7 million or 98%.
The disbursement profile is presented in Section I of the Data Sheet.

Implementation Overview.

31.     The Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS) executed and implemented the
project with some activities contracted out to NGOs. The institutional and organizational
arrangements followed the precedent set by the previous health project that was rated
satisfactory. A separate Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was not created and the
activities to be implemented under the project were integrated in the existing structure of
the MOHS. The Project director was the Director General of Medical Services (similar to
a Permanent Secretary) and the Director of Planning was the Project Coordinator. All
MOHS staff working on the project were paid out of grant funds setting up a
sustainability issue as will be discussed further on. While it is correct that de jure there
was no separate PIU it must be recognized that the "integrated PIU" was de facto a team
that were not civil servants but were paid higher salaries.

32.     Project implementation during the first year showed satisfactory progress with
bidding documents including drawings and bills of quantities for the four district
hospitals and the 12 health centers prepared, bids for procuring furniture and equipment
advertised, planning and budgeting workshops conducted, staff trained in procurement at
a WBI course in Nigeria, and discussions initiated with NGOs. Slowing down some
activities were the shortage of health workers, especially in rural areas, and the delay in
recruiting a supervising architect, a profession in short supply.

33.     Progress during the second year was also rated satisfactory although important
delays were encountered in the bidding process with bids being opened and evaluation
reports sent to the Bank for review towards the end of the year. Nonetheless procurement
was rated surprisingly satisfactory. Furniture and equipment were procured for
community health centers, laboratory technicians were trained but the procurement of bed
nets was delayed. The project continued to be hampered by a shortage of health workers


                                             9
and specific skills such as an architect manager and a quantity surveyor firm. This delay
caused a low disbursement rate of only 9.3% of grant funds against an unrealistic goal of
37.6% projected in the PAD. The Environmental Assessment was completed and found
no significant environmental issues.

34.     Significant progress was made during the third year. Construction of works for
the rehabilitation of the selected four hospitals and 12 health centers had started,
procurement of equipment for these facilities had been initiated, and drugs, furniture and
the first batch of 7,000 bed nets had been procured and distributed. Problems with
counterpart funding emerged and discussion of allowing 100% Bank financing had
started. Disbursement delays were now compounded by delays in signing withdrawal
applications. The latter had to be signed by both the Minister of Health and the Minister
of Finance, resulting in delays from six months to one year. Delays in disbursement
caused a slowdown in civil works as contractors were not paid on time.

35.     The Mid-Term Review took place on schedule in February 2006, during the third
year of project implementation. The MTR recommended to: (i) merge some
subcomponents; (ii) scale down the malaria activities as the Global Fund had recently
committed additional funds to support the government's malaria program; (iii) scale up
the civil works program to take into consideration some changes in scope as well as cost
over-runs; (iv) add activities to support the control of onchocerciasis and avian flu which
were important priorities for the government; and (v) revise key performance indicators
(KPIs) to reflect a better linkage with project activities and make them more specific,
measurable, and outcome-based. The proposed changes made sense and largely led to the
Additional Financing of US$8.0 million.

36.     The fourth year saw a downgrading of DO and IP from S to MS for the first time.
The counterpart funding issue had not yet been solved as the task team had discussed
with GOSL 100% financing in exchange for an increase in GOSL financing of the health
sector. The GOSL could not agree to this and the team agreed to request Bank
Management to allow 100% financing without the corresponding budget increase. At the
same time the team started preparing a proposal for additional financing. A tracking
system for processing withdrawal applications was put in place to clear the backlog. Civil
works did not advance as quickly as anticipated, and only five of the 12 health centers
were completed and the rehabilitation of the four district hospitals were at various stages
of completion. However progress towards achieving a number of KPIs was improving
especially in malaria and tuberculosis diagnosis and treatment.

37.     The MS rating of DO and IP were reversed in the fifth year as a result of: IDA
Management approving 100% financing and a positive improvement in all the KPIs with
four of them already exceeding their target. The approved additional financing set the
stage for speeding up the rehabilitation works on the hospitals as contractor payments
improved. The temporary improvement in processing WAs saw a set back with elections
in July/August 2007 and the appointment of new ministers.




                                            10
38.     Ratings were sharply downgraded in the sixth year: DO moving back to MS, IP
going from S to MU, project management rated unsatisfactory, and MU for procurement,
safeguard compliance (delays in dumpsite construction) and inexplicably for counterpart
funding. The main reasons for lowering the IP rating were the implementation delays of
civil works that account for 30% of project cost, the sharp increase in the prices of
materials putting in doubt the successful financing of civil works, and the arrears owed to
contractors due to the perennial problem of delayed processing of WAs. The procurement
officer and the architect were dismissed and were not replaced. At the same time
achieving the DO remained more positive with seven KPIs having met or exceeded their
target.

39.     Progress during the final year recuperated ending the project on a positive note.
Overall disbursements and commitments were 98% by closing. A second closing time
extension of four months allowed completing the civil works. Access to affordable
essential health services increased and NGOs and civil society in general had become
more active in decision making and participating in national planning, preparing health
strategies and updating health policies. The procurement capacity of the MOHS remained
unsatisfactory with delays in obtaining approvals and clearances and political
interferences.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

40.     The PAD in "Annex 1: Project Design Summary" shows a list of 13
outcome/impact indicators and 23 output indicators under the heading of Key
Performance Indicators. There is no M&E narrative in the PAD regarding design and
implementation. Aide memoires and ISRs rarely mention M&E, but the outcome
indicators were updated regularly during implementation support missions. The number
of KPIs changed very much during project implementation. The DGA in Schedule 6 has
ten performance indicators (Section 1.2 above). The February 2006 MTR recommended
some changes to the key performance indicators by adding indicators to cover additional
activities and sub-components, dropping some as they had become irrelevant and also
changing some targets due to new developments. The request to effect these changes
were included in the Additional Financing request (Section 1.3 above). The Project
Paper on additional financing has a list of 15 KPIs in Annex A and the same list is also in
the ISRs. The final aide memoire however updated the KPIs as of November 2009 and
has only 12 indicators. The target values of three indicators differ between the final aide
memoire and the final ISR. In general and despite the many changes in indicators, M&E
was carried out satisfactorily with regular updating and use of data by the MOHS in
planning.

41.     A Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) completed in 2008 made possible
updating three indicators relating to malaria ITNs and onchocerciasis. The reproductive
and child survival project under preparation benefitted from the current project as
activities aimed at strengthening routine data systems were on-going and training being
planned for M&E officers at the decentralized levels. A health facility survey was
planned to assess the quality of services provided in the country's health facilities. This



                                            11
very first demographic and health survey (DHS) started data collection in March, 2008.
The health facility survey and the DHS are not funded from project proceeds, but they
provide useful additional information on the health status of the people of Sierra Leone.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

42.    Environment. The project was categorized as "B" and a limited environmental
analysis and a costed mitigation plan were to be prepared before project appraisal.

43.    Environment and social safeguards implementation has been partial. Due
diligence was exercised during construction of the hospitals at Makeni, Moyamba,
Kabala and Kono. The sole household that was displaced as a result of the Makeni
hospital construction was moved into a replacement house.

44.     Institutional cooperation for waste management was weak all along in the work of
the MOHS. The Environmental and Sanitation Department of MOHS that should have
provided technical support in areas relating to environmental management and sanitation
was conspicuously missing in the implementation of project activities. Reports from
consultants preparing the EIAs and EMP for the dumpsites benefited only partially from
inputs or comments from the staff of the Ministry and social impact assessments. The
construction of landfill and dumpsites received a no objection from the World Bank for
the construction of the Moyamba and Kabala dumpsites and advice was given for the
Kono and Makeni sites to be changed after several visits and assessments noted their
unsuitability for use as landfill and dumpsites. None have been constructed. MOHS
submitted bidding documents for tendering for dumpsites construction after more than
two years with support from the Bank to complete the site-specific environment impact
assessment. A review of the bidding document found that technical descriptions were not
provided and there was no clarity on what was required by the Ministry. The Bank team,
on consultation with the procurement hub coordinator, advised the MOHS to use part of
project funds allocated for the construction to hire consultants to prepare technical
specifications for the dumpsites before the project closes. Because it ran out of time, the
Ministry agreed to find funding from other sources for the construction of the dumpsites.
The Bank team took the right approach of ensuring that design was appropriate. Even
though this delayed their implementation, it will be beneficial to the country over many
years.

Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management

45.     Financial management was handled by the Project Finance Unit with a staff
strength of five, comprising; Finance Director, the Project Accountant, a Finance Officer,
and two secretarial staff. The project accountant and his team satisfactorily handled the
accounting and reporting functions of the project. ISR ratings for financial management
were uniformly satisfactory for the first four years of project implementation and then
changed to moderately satisfactory for the remaining two years. The change appears to be
due to the perennial problem of delayed processing of withdrawal applications and a
major delay in paying up the outstanding counterpart fund contributions.



                                            12
46.     ISR ratings for procurement were also uniformly satisfactory for the first four
years of project implementation and then changed, first to MS in 2007, then to MU in
2008 ending up in the final ISR with an unsatisfactory rating. A number of serious
procurement issues emerged in the last two years. Substandard items (beds, generators,
scales, and chairs) supplied to various hospitals, were discarded and were not replaced.
The MOHS failed to comment on findings and recommendations made by the
independent consultants in their technical audit reports submitted in June 2009. Ineligible
items were procured and the MOHS was requested to refund to the project account the
amount spent. As a result of agreements reached during the March 2009 mission,
UNICEF was contracted to procure the remaining goods required under the project and
supply of these items was completed by project closure. On the positive side, the offices
and the stores of the Malaria Control Program Office and Store at New England Ville and
the Environmental Health Division Office and Store at Clinetown were completed and
handed over to MOHS.

47.    One month before project closing, disbursements stood at 85.4% and 11.4%
committed under signed contracts for a total of 96.8% disbursed and committed. The
balance of non-committed funds was to be used to buy drugs for the health facilities
through the UNICEF procurement system. This was not done, however, as the
withdrawal applications were not signed on time.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

48.     The HSRDP management was mainstreamed into the MOHS management system
and was paid a salary out of grant funds that was higher than the government salaries. It
provided the majority of professional staff that worked in the Ministry, with logistical
support, transport facilities, internet services and communications for the senior
management team. Mainstreaming also meant that project staff had to carry out functions
of the Ministry and therefore sometimes were not available for project activities leading
to delays in project implementation. This arrangement was presented by the client and
accepted by the Bank as an "integrated PIU" versus a freestanding PIU. This
mainstreaming helped the Ministry, but also made it possible for senior management
and political leadership to interfere with the implementation of project activities at all
levels contributing to delays in processing withdrawal applications at the MOHS and
finalizing procurement decisions. Delays were also reported at the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Development in processing withdrawal applications.

49.    The MOHS prepared a draft exit and sustainability plan that would give the local
councils responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the Primary Health Units and
the secondary hospitals that have been rehabilitated or constructed under the project.
Already funds have been allocated to the Local Councils for that purpose. Almost all
members of the "integrated PIU" were absorbed by the GOSL and became government
employees again, albeit at a lower salary.




                                            13
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

50.     The relevance of the overall development objective and the four subsidiary
objectives is rated Substantial because: (i) Sierra Leone endured a devastating civil war
from 1992 to 2001 and most infrastructure and many formal institutions were destroyed
or disabled; and (ii) the objectives were consistent with the Bank's overall policies and
country strategy.

51.     The development objective aimed to help restore the most essential functions of
the health sector delivery system. This objective would be achieved by: (a) increasing
access to affordable essential health services by improving primary and first referral
health facilities in four districts of the country; (b) improving the performance of key
technical programs responsible for coping with the country's major public health
problems; (c) strengthening health sector management capacity to improve efficiency and
further decentralize decision-making to the districts; and (d) supporting development of
the private NGO health sector and involvement of the civil society in decision-making.

52.      Additional financing did not change the development objectives, but added three
activities: (a) scaling up onchocerciasis control and prevention; (b) strengthening Avian
Influenza awareness; and (c) improving the operational conditions of health facilities by
completing civil works that were facing cost overruns due to increased unit costs of
building materials.

53.      The PDOs were and remained consistent with the Transitional Support Strategy
(TSS) of 2002-2003 that included the Bank's business plan and proposed the Health
Sector Reconstruction and Development Project (HSRDP) that would rehabilitate health
facilities with priority to war-torn an underserved areas, re-establishing the provision of
basic health services, and solving major public health problems to consolidate peace. The
Additional Financing was also consistent with the strategic priorities set out in the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, Report No. 31793, May 5,2005) and the PRSP. They
support the long-term country development outcome set out in the third pillar of the CAS
"to improve the health status of the people of Sierra Leone," and directly feed into the
specific CAS outcome "to restore and develop the health sector in four districts."

54.     The design was highly relevant. It was a simple one, taking into consideration the
post-conflict situation and the limited capacity of the government. It was directly in line
with the Bank country and sector strategies, as already mentioned earlier. The project
components were consistent with the project's development objectives. Some changes
were made after the MTR which helped adapt the project design to changing
circumstances in Sierra Leone (notably for civil works), evolving needs from the
government (onchocerciasis and avian flu), and availability of financing (Global Fund for
malaria). Changes in a few indicators and targets allowed to better measure the project's
impact.




                                            14
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

55.     The project's achievement of its overall development objective - helping restore
the most essential functions of the health sector delivery system - is rated as Substantial
based on the results of the four subsidiary objectives: increasing access to affordable
essential health services (substantial); improving the performance of key technical
programs (substantial); strengthening health sector management capacity to improve
efficiency and further decentralize decision-making to the districts (modest); and
supporting development of the private NGO health sector and involvement of the civil
society in decision-making (modest). The rating is justified given that ten of the 15
indicators attained or surpassed their targets. Details are available below, in the Data
Sheet and in Annex 2.

56.      IDA was the only donor active in the four districts for rehabilitating the physical
infrastructure objective and therefore results for that objective can be reasonably
attributed to project activities. The 15 indicators listed and reported in the final ISR all
refer to this objective. No quantitative results information is available for the second
objective aiming at strengthening public and private sector capacity. As mentioned
earlier, the number of indicators varies according to the document source: 10 in the DGA,
15 in the annex to the project paper for additional financing, 12 in the final aide memoire
and 16 in the final ISR. The list below is the one from the Board approved additional
financing grant and the results cited are from the final ISR dated 12/30/2009.

Objective 1: Restoring essential health services

                       Indicator                           Target              Result
1. At least 50 health posts in the Priority Districts        50                 50
are fully equipped.
2. At least 4 district hospitals in the Priority              4                   4
Districts have been rehabilitated and fully
equipped.
3. Percentage of population within one mile radius          60%                67.3%
from the nearest primary health unit in the Priority
Districts increase from 41% in 2004 to at least 60%
in 2007.
4. Twelve (12) primary health facilities fully               12                  12
rehabilitated and equipped in the Priority Districts.
5. Percentage of children aged 12-23 months                 75%                79.7%
completely immunized is at least 75%.
6. The number of insecticide-treated bed nets              160,000            160,000
purchased under the project and distributed to the
population exceeds 160,000.
7. At least 15 laboratories are capable of                   24                  26
performing malaria microscopy in the territory of
the Recipient.
8. The percentage of children under five years of           40%                67.2%


                                            15
age in the Priority Districts who sleep regularly
under insecticide-treated bed nets, is at least 40%.
9. The percentage of pregnant women in the                   40%                63.2%
Priority Districts who sleep regularly under
insecticide-treated bed nets is at least 40%.
10. The percentage of TB smear-positive cases                85%                86.1%
successfully treated under the directly observed
treatment strategy in the Priority Districts is at least
85%.
11. The proportion of new TB smear-positive cases            50%                 47%
detected in the four priority districts is at least 50%.
12. At least 50% of primary health units in the four         50%                73.4%
priority districts have either an incinerator or a
burning pit.
13. Therapeutic coverage of Ivermectin                       60%                75.3%
nationwide increase from 0% in 2005 to at least
60%.
14. Increase in geographic coverage of community-            70%                100%
directed Ivermectin distribution from 0% in 2005
to 70%.
15. The number of health workers trained on                  250                 430
surveillance of Avian Influenza increased from 0 in
2006 to 250.


57.     All of the 15 indicators, except two for tuberculosis, achieved or surpassed their
target.

58.     Objective 2: Strengthening public and private sector capacity.
Documentation to fully assess this component does not provide quantitative data and
qualitative information is quite limited in the narratives of the aide memoires and the
ISRs. The private NGO health sector and civil society are reported to have become active
in decision-making in the health sector. NGOs participated in the district and national
planning and review processes during project implementation. They were also active in
preparing the national health strategy and the update of the national health policy and
their dissemination. This involvement is expected to continue for many years.

59.     The project boosted the capacity of the MOHS through its support for a more
efficient organizational structure, increased its ability to plan and budget, and trained key
staff. A National Health Accounts system was set up in 2007 that laid the groundwork for
future annual reporting on health expenditures. The Health Management Information
System (HMIS) attracted the support of the health metrics network of WHO as well as
support from CDC. Donor coordination improved with regular donor meeting and
monthly NGO meetings. Less positive are the reports on the public sector that mentioned
the perennial problem of delays in processing withdrawal applications at the MOHS and



                                               16
the Ministry of Finance and to a lesser extent delays in finalizing procurement decisions
by MOHS, and the changes in personnel at the senior level of MOHS.

3.3 Efficiency

60.    Project efficiency is rated as Modest based on considerations of: (a) the allocation
of funds to the two components with the bulk of the grant allocated to restoring essential
health services; (b) the boosting of the capacity of the MOHS; (c) the delays in
processing withdrawal applications and as a result delays in completing the civil works
on time; and (d) cost overruns. The project invested in activities that have well
documented cost effectiveness ratios such as improving basic health services, primary
health care, first referral health facilities, human resources development, and support to
programs addressing important infectious disease controls (malaria, tuberculosis,
onchocerciasis, sanitation). The latter represent a major economic burden on the country
by lowering the productivity of workers and increasing the cost of treatment.

61.    An economic analysis was not conducted but instead a health sector Public
Expenditures Review was carried out at the preparation phase. It was correctly
recognized that until economic development takes off, the funding of the health sector
would largely depend upon donor funding and that the present credit would not be
sustainable until there is substantial macroeconomic development.

62.     At the outset the country was required to contribute about US$1 million in
counterpart funds representing about a 2% annual increment of MOHS current and
capital expenditures funded from domestic sources. However, IDA agreed in January
2007 to allow for 100 percent financing of all eligible expenditures according to the
Country Financing Parameters, without which delays in implementation would have been
more significant.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

63.    Rating: Moderately satisfactory based on the relevance                  of the overall
development objective and the four subsidiary objectives rated as substantial, the appropriate
design with major emphasis on restoring essential health services and controlling
infectious diseases, the noted delays in implementation progress and cost overruns, the
achievement of most performance indicators and the modest efficiency rating.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

64.      The project's overall development objective of helping to restore essential
functions of the health delivery system was applied to four districts. This responded to
the goal of the Sierra Leone Poverty Reduction Strategy to redress inequities between
Freetown and the rest of the nation as being central to maintaining peace. The four
districts were mid-size rural districts affected by the war, and restoring the essential
health services offered a comparative advantage to the poor. Grants were disbursed


                                             17
directly to District Health Management Team (DHMT) accounts. This financing
mechanism improved the pro-poor orientation of public spending. The first component -
restoring essential health services - accounted for 71% of the original grant and for 68%
of the combined original grant and additional financing. The same component financed
nation-wide malaria, tuberculosis, and onchocerciasis programs that mainly affect the low
income segment of the population as do the lack of sanitation programs. Both the
district-specific and the nation-wide programs stressed the health of children and
pregnant women as evidenced in the choice of key performance indicators. The second
component - strengthening public and private sector capacity - made the health delivery
system more responsive to the needs of the rural population by promoting the
decentralization of decision-making.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

65.     The country emerged from a decade long civil war and institutions had to be
rebuilt. Both PDOs contributed to rebuilding and strengthening the institutional
infrastructure that enabled the country to provide essential health services to the whole
population and to provide the managerial capacity to manage the health sector. Important
and enduring achievements include boosting the capacity of the MOHS by restructuring
its organizational structure, hiring and rehiring personnel, revamping its planning and
budgeting functions and training its staff. A National Health Accounts system was and a
Health Management Information System were initiated in 2007 with the support of the
project that provides the potential for monitoring and evaluating the health status of the
population, for disease surveillance and provided the data for the M&E component of the
Bank financed project. These achievements are not reversible and augur well for the
long-term capacity of the MOHS. In 2008, a PER was conducted covering health and
other sectors.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

66.     Three positive unintended results of the projects should be cited. First, it became
evident early on that the three priority technical programs (malaria, tuberculosis, and
sanitation) required to be expanded and other infectious diseases such as onchocerciasis
and that disease surveillance had to be put in place to prepare for a potential Avian
Influenza epidemic. Second, the project's support to NGOs and the not-for-profit private
sector expanded the range of expertise to address the key causes of the burden of disease
and complemented the efforts in building up the public sector capabilities. Third, the
project helped tilt public spending towards a pro-poor orientation and supported a
decentralization policy that minimized leakages in the flow of funds between the central
level and the districts.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

67.    The MOHS organized a large participatory review and planning process that
included district personnel, donors, international and local NGOs. The latter continued to




                                            18
participate in the district and national planning and review processes during project
implementation and will remain active after project closing.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

68.     Several project outcomes were successful in effecting behavior change. These
changes are very likely not reversible and are positive contributions to the health of the
citizens of Sierra Leone. This is the case, inter alia, for the use of insecticide-treated bed
nets and the custom of sleeping under these bed nets especially children and pregnant
women; the complete immunization of children aged 12-23 months; and the treatment of
tuberculosis under a DOTS strategy. Several of the institution building outcomes will
also have a staying power, e.g. trained staff, disease surveillance supported by
laboratories and a HMIS, the structure and functions of the MOHS, the use of NGOs in
reaching health goals, and the coordination of the inputs of all development partners.

69.     There are, however, important concerns about the sustainability of the measures
that were established during the project's implementation period. MOHS staff, i.e. the
integrated PIU, that were paid by the project are now receiving a government salary and
their motivation and intention to remain on the job may be uncertain. It is not clear
whether the positive outcomes obtained in the four project supported districts may not be
replicated as intended to all districts and these "World Bank Districts" may not have the
anticipated generalizing effect. Exception measures that were justifiable during the early
post conflict years - such as paying staff with external funds - may not apply any longer.
However, weighing the results achieved and especially the behavior change, with the
uncertainties of going forward tilts the balance in favor of a moderate risk to the
development outcomes.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

70.     Several important steps taken at the outset ensured a quality starting point: (a) the
project was anchored on the Transitional Support Strategy that included the Bank's
business plan; (b) grant financing was appropriate in a post-conflict situation (as well as
the waiver of counterpart funds later on); (c) a large participatory review and planning
process that included district personnel, donors, international and local NGOs was
organized; (d) PHRD and PPF financing produced a large number of key preparatory
studies; (e) integrating the PIU in the MOHS was positive; and (f) the selection of mid-
size districts emphasized the rural population and the poor.

71.   Processing of the credit and the additional financing was completed in a timely
manner. Elapsed time between the first Bank mission and Appraisal was 13 months


                                             19
followed by Negotiations one month later, Board approval two months after negotiations
and credit effectiveness within 90 days after Board approval. The Project Paper on the
proposed additional financing presented succinctly the rationale for restructuring, the
proposed changes and the expected outcomes. An impressive number of ten peer
reviewers commented on the Project Concept Document although only one peer reviewer
submitted comments on the PAD.

72.     Project preparation for both the original credit and the additional financing
succeeded in establishing many of the principal elements for project implementation (e.g.
a Project Operations Manual, Social Assessment, a Public Expenditure Review for the
health sector; a Health Facility Inventory and a Human Resources Assessment). Peer
reviewers had cautioned regarding the key performance indicators that it was doubtful
that the project would have a measurable impact on IMR, CMR and MMR. Nonetheless
these indicators remained in the PAD but were subsequently not included in Schedule 6
of the DGA or in the ISRs.

73.    Arrangements for M&E were not detailed in the PAD. The project design
summary (Annex 1 of the PAD) stated the data collection strategy and the critical
assumptions for obtaining the data in a summary and columnar format. The main text of
the PAD should have presented in more detail what baseline was available and for the
missing baseline data how, when and by whom it would be obtained.

 (b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

74.     Given the need to rebuild the institutions after the civil war, the need for intensive
supervision was identified early on in the preparation process. Twenty ISRs were
prepared and filed during the six and a half years of project implementation. The mid-
term review was organized as planned in February 2006. The ICR process was initiated
during the last implementation support mission in December 2009 with an ICR mission
in early January 2010, and the timelines agreed for the preparation of the government's
contribution to the ICR, the submission of the draft ICR for government's comments and
the review of the ICR and completion. In the last two years of the project, the Bank team
strengthened supervision through: (i) monthly videoconferences when the TTL was not in
country; and (ii) weekly meetings with the project team and the Minister when the TTL,
procurement and financial management specialists were all based in country, addressing
issues as soon as they arose, providing hands-on support on a daily basis. This
significantly helped improve the quality and timeliness of project implementation.

75.      Financial management was supervised closely and rated uniformly satisfactory for
the first four years of project implementation and then changed to moderately satisfactory
for the remaining two years. Procurement plans were cleared by the Bank and supervision
teams supported the implementation of the country's procurement reform to reduce
opportunities for corruption and to improve the efficiency of public spending through fair
and open competition. The UN system was used to procure vehicles and to process letters
of credit.


                                             20
76.    The task team actively encouraged the Government to construct dumpsites to
meet the site specific environment impact assessment, but the project was only able to
finance the preparation of technical specifications before project closing.

77.     Every supervision mission visited all project districts and inspected the civil
works in all PHUs and district hospitals. The government project implementation team
also visited project districts regularly. There was a supervising consultant with staff at
every construction site on a full time basis. The TTL changed three times during the first
three years of project implementation (2003 to 2005). This is a major weakness as the
need for continuity is greatest in a rebuilding period when important policy decisions are
made, staff is to be trained and smooth relationships between the Bank and the client are
important. TTL continuity improved greatly as the same TTL who assumed that function
in July 2006 carried the project forward to its successful end. The frequent change in
TTLs may account for the roller coaster ratings in the ISRs. The number of indicators
varies between the DGA (10), the annex to the project paper (15) and the final ISR(16) .

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

78.      The Task Team's design of the initial project and the additional financing
proposal, its encouragement of specific Government initiatives (decentralization, pro-
poor public spending, coordination of donor programs and their alignment with the
Government program, boosting of the planning and budgeting capacity of the MOHS,
etc.), its flexibility in responding to changes in the project implementation environment,
and its continuing frank dialogue with the Government - but mainly in the second half of
the project - were all satisfactory. Notwithstanding some weaknesses in supervision
especially in the first three years, the lesser degree of supervising district activities and
the turnover in TTLs, Bank performance justifies a satisfactory rating.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

79.     As already indicated, the Government contributed to many positive aspects to
rebuild their public institutions and to partner with the NGOs and the private sector.
Government policy reflected the reality that redressing inequities between the capital and
the rest of the nation was central to maintaining peace. The role of local councils to
achieve equity was acknowledged and a mechanism of formula-based grants was
implemented. Government accepted to work with and through some UN agencies to
augment its own embryonic capabilities. The Government introduced a number of
proactive reforms in public financial management including public procurement that were
meant to reduce the opportunities for corruption. The Public Procurement Act covers all
procurement in the public sector and creates an autonomous regulator empowered to set


                                             21
rules and oversee public procurement practices by all public sector bodies. Challenges
remained in disseminating the regulations, training Government staff, tying procurement
plans into the budgeting process and auditing main spending entities.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

80.     The MOHS was the implementing agency contracting out some activities to
NGOs and other not-for-profit private sector entities. The MOHS had succeeded in
implementing the previous credit satisfactorily in spite of the difficult conditions that
prevailed in the country from 1995 to 2001. Project preparation was carried out with the
full participation of other donors and stakeholders. The success with the earlier credit led
to the decision to implement the project without creating a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU). This decision met with the approval of the Bank as it is aligned with its policies.
However two caveats are in order. First, the PIU of about 15 staff was paid out of credit
funds making them de facto "World Bank subsidized employees" with better working
conditions and higher pay than the rest of the MOHS staff. Second, by integrating the
unit within the structure of MOHS - prima facie a felicitous measure - the unit is subject
to all bureaucratic restrictions prevalent in the public sector environment. This was most
evident in the processing of procurement that was fraught with administrative delays and
interference, especially in the last two years. This compelled the Bank team to advise that
all major procurement be carried out through UNICEF. Despite this measure, it was still
difficult to obtain approvals and clearances along the procurement chain. The
Government team was not responsive to the problem of sub-standard goods and
equipment procured under the project despite efforts by the Task Team and the CMU in
resolving the issue. Financial management on the other hand was consistently rated
satisfactory with audits submitted on time and audit opinions being unqualified. The
overall disbursement by project closing was 95 percent.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

81.     The Moderately Satisfactory performance of the Government and the Moderately
Satisfactory performance of the Implementing Agency yield an overall rating of
Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

82.     Exit Strategy. More thought needs to be given to the general idea of `exit'
strategies. The opportunity for `exit' starts at the design phase and continues by managing
effective transition strategies and assisting the Government to transform such transitional
arrangements into longer-term capacity development and performance.




                                            22
83.     A PIU or not a PIU. When the Bank needs to help design a project in a post-
conflict environment, it makes sense to design a management structure adapted to the
prevailing conditions. In most situations, Bank strategy is correct to recommend not
creating a separate and independent unit to implement a project. This project did not
create a PIU de jure and was congratulated for the approach in the design. However a
PIU existed de facto as a large group of ministry staff were paid out of the credit.
However, this made sense as the war had just ended and there were very few staff so the
project actually helped to strengthen the Ministry with the additional staff recruited. They
worked both on the project and on other tasks of the Ministry. All of them are still
working in the Ministry. As in all PIUs, the negative side is that PIU staff were looked
upon as privileged staff by their colleagues who received a lower pay.

84.      Post-conflict Environment. Contextual factors at the time of project preparation
are not well understood and project design usually takes place in conditions of great
uncertainty and complexity. Feasibility of proposed objectives and interventions emerge
during implementation. In these conditions, task teams need to be flexible, provide
hands-on support and stay the course. Turnover of Bank staff is not helpful to achieving
these objectives as a robust rapport with the client is crucial and interpersonal relations
play an important role. The conventional techniques of results-based management
including planning, prediction, control and targeting need to be adapted to a weak
institutional environment. This being said, since 2006 the Bank task team has been very
flexible and helped the project implementation team as much as possible, and that
contributed to the project's positive outcomes as much as the rules of the Bank would
allow and that helped achieve what was achieved.

85.    Grant Financing. Grant financing was justified by the urgent need to restore a
functioning health sector, its strong development impact and as a means to draw greater
and broader support for the sector from other development partners.

86.     Sustainability. It should be recognized that until economic development takes off,
the funding of the health sector will continue to largely depend upon donor funding. The
present credit's sustainability cannot be ensured solely by the government until there is
substantial macroeconomic development. Aspects of the project requiring continuous
funding (civil works/maintenance, training medical personnel, drug supplies) raise issues
of sustainability over the long run, in case of diminishing support from donors.

87.    Health Workers. A shortage of health workers is a perennial problem in most
African countries, especially in rural areas, and no satisfactory solutions have been found.
The exodus of skilled health workers during the civil war exacerbated the problem in
Sierra Leone. The country was also not immune from the recruiting practices of
developed countries.

88.    Capacity Development. Working in post-conflict states makes more demands on
donor capabilities to support capacity development. Country teams need to develop more
country and sector knowledge, customize capacity development interventions, coordinate
with other donors and encourage experimentation and learning. The commitment and



                                            23
drive of leaders is clearly critical and turnover at the top level can be destabilizing. Most
public sector organizations have a `missing middle' which is the group that does the real
implementation and that connects the top of the structure to the lower levels. Without that
group, capacity development as a process of change loses traction and the ability to move
forward.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower.

None.




                                             24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)
                                                       millions)
 RESTORING ESSENTIAL
                                      13.62                  15.02
HEALTH SERVICES
 STRENGTHENING PUBLIC
AND PRIVATE SECTOR                    5.32                    5.98
CAPACITY
 ONCHO                                0.00                    2.70
 AVIAN FLU                             0.00                   0.40
 WORKS SCALE UP                       0.00                    4.75

            Total Baseline Cost                      18.94                           28.85
Physical Contingencies                                0.57                            0.00
Price Contingencies                                   1.49                            0.00
             Total Project Costs                     21.00                           28.85
Front-end fee PPF                                    0.00                             0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                   0.00                             0.00
      Total Financing Required                       21.00                           28.85




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                   Estimate    Estimate
               Source of Funds
                                                    (USD        (USD
                                                   millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                            1.00        1.00
 IDA GRANT FOR POST-
                                                      20.00             20.00
CONFLICT
IDA Additional Financing                                                7.855
  Total Financing                                     21.00             28.85




5
    Total additional financing of US$8 million equivalent was not fully disbursed.




                                                            25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                            Activity                                  Beneficiary         Component         Objective 
Component 1                                                                                              
1.2.7.1.Contruction of Makeni Government Hospital                    Bombali district         1        Improve access to 
                                                                                                       health care 
1.2.7.2. Rehabilitation of Koidu Government Hospital                 Kono District            1        Improve access to 
                                                                                                       health care 
1.2.7.3. Rehabilitation of Kabala Government Hospital                Koinadugu District       1        Improve access to 
                                                                                                       health care 
1.2.7.4. Rehabilitation of Moyamba Government Hospital               Moyamba district         1        Improve access to 
                                                                                                       health care 
1.2.8.1. Construction of Taiama Health Center                        Moyamba district         1        Improve access to 
                                                                                                       health care 
1.2.8.2. Construction of Shenge Health Center                        Moyamba district         1        Improve access to 
                                                                                                       health care 
1.2.8.3. Construction of Gbangbatoke Health Center                   Moyamba district         1        Improve access to 
                                                                                                       health care 
1.2.8.4. Construction of Kondebaia Health Center                     Koinadugu District       1        Improve access to 
                                                                                                       health care 
1.2.8.5. Construction of Mongo Health Center                         Koinadugu District       1        Improve access to 
                                                                                                       health care 
1.2.8.6. Construction of Sinkunia Health Center                      Koinadugu District       1        Improve access to 
                                                                                                       health care 
1.2.8.7. Construction of Kamawonie Health Center                     Bombali district         1        Improve access to 
                                                                                                       health care 
1.2.8.8. Construction of Mabunduka Health Center                     Bombali district         1        Improve access to 
                                                                                                       health care 
1.2.8.9. Construction of Hundowa Health Center                       Bombali district         1        Improve access to 
                                                                                                       health care 
1.2.8.10. Construction of Njala Health Center                        Kono District            1        Improve access to 
                                                                                                       health care 
1.2.8.11. Construction of Motema Health Center                       Kono District            1        Improve access to 
                                                                                                       health care 
1.2.8.12. Construction of Saiama Health Center                       Kono District            1        Improve access to 
                                                                                                       health care 
1.2.9. Construction of store for Malaria Control Program             Malaria Program          1        Improve storage 
                                                                                                       situation 
1.2.10. Construction of store for ENVSAN Program                     Environmental            1        Improve storage 
                                                                     Health Unit                       situation 
1.5.1. Construction of civil works - additional facilities at        Moyamba,                 1        Improve working 
Hospitals and health centres.                                        Bombali,                          condition of staff 
                                                                     Koinadugu and 
                                                                     Kono Districts 
1.5.2. Procurement of Furniture and equipment for wards              Moyamba,                 1        Improve access to 
                                                                     Bombali,                          quality health care 
                                                                     Koinadugu and 
                                                                     Kono Districts 
1.5.3. Procurement of Furniture and equipment for                    Moyamba,                 1        Improve access to 
administrative buildings                                             Bombali,                          quality health care 
                                                                     Koinadugu and 
                                                                     Kono Districts 
1.5.4. Procurement of specialized medical equipment for              Moyamba,                 1        Improve access to 
hospitals                                                            Bombali,                          quality health care 
                                                                     Koinadugu and 
                                                                     Kono Districts 
1.5.5. Procurement of solar systems for Hospitals and health         Moyamba,                 1        Improve access to 
centres                                                              Bombali,                          quality health care 
                                                                     Koinadugu and 
                                                                     Kono Districts 




                                                                26
                           Activity                                  Beneficiary       Component       Objective 
1.5.6.Procurement of goods for Onchocerciasis Program               Moyamba,               1        Improve access to 
                                                                    Bombali,                        quality health care 
                                                                    Koinadugu and 
                                                                    Kono Districts 
1.5.7. Procurement of goods for Avian Flu                           Directorate of         1        Improve access to
                                                                    Disease                         quality health care 
                                                                    Prevention and 
                                                                    Control 
1.5.8. TA for Design and supervision of additional works            Civil works            1        Improve access to 
                                                                    consultant                      quality health care 
1.5.10. Onchocerciasis consultancy fees and training                Onchocerciasis         1        Strengthen 
                                                                    Control program                 Onchocerciasis 
                                                                                                    control 
1.5.11. Avian Flu consultancy fees and training                     Directorate of         1        Strengthen Avian 
                                                                    Disease                         Flu control 
                                                                    Prevention and 
                                                                    Control 
1.5.12. Onchocerciasis operating costs                              Onchocerciasis         1        Improve access to 
                                                                    Control program                 quality health care 
1.5.13. Avian Flu operating costs                                   Directorate of         1        Improve access to 
                                                                    Disease                         quality health care 
                                                                    Prevention and 
                                                                    Control 
5.1.9. Renovation and furnishing of offices                         Environmental          1        Strengthen 
                                                                    Health Unit                     environmental 
                                                                                                    health  
5.1.10. Procurement of 4WD vehicle                                  Environmental          1        Strengthen 
                                                                    Health Unit                     environmental 
                                                                                                    health  
5.1.11. Procurement of 2 motorbikes                                 Environmental          1        Strengthen 
                                                                    Health Unit                     environmental 
                                                                                                    health  
6.1.1. Training of 30 Public Health Aides (PHAs)                    Environmental          1        Strengthen 
                                                                    Health Unit                     capacity for 
                                                                                                    environmental 
                                                                                                    health 
                                                                                                    management 
6.1.2. Reorientation and sensitization of 30 community              Environmental          1        Strengthen 
members on basic ES                                                 Health Unit                     capacity for 
                                                                                                    environmental 
                                                                                                    health 
                                                                                                    management 
6.1.3. Training of 100 women in slum/ squatter settlements          Environmental          1        Strengthen 
on basic hygiene                                                    Health Unit                     capacity for 
                                                                                                    environmental 
                                                                                                    health 
                                                                                                    management 
                                                                    Environmental          1        Strengthen 
                                                                    Health Unit                     capacity for 
                                                                                                    environmental 
6.1.6. Review, update, print, launch and distribute the                                             health 
National Environmental Policy.                                                                      management 
6.1.8. Assessment of Port Health Offices country wide               Environmental          1        Strengthen 
                                                                    Health Unit                     capacity for 
                                                                                                    environmental 
                                                                                                    health 
                                                                                                    management 
                                                                    Environmental          1        Strengthen 
                                                                    Health Unit                     capacity for 
                                                                                                    environmental 
6.1.10. Micro-planning workshop with DHS, EHOs on the                                               health 
decentralization of EH activities to district Municipal councils.                                   management 




                                                              27
                           Activity                                    Beneficiary        Component       Objective 
6.2.1. Training on health care waste management (NGOs,                Environmental           1        Strengthen 
public health care staff, private health care staff, paramedical      Health Unit                      capacity for 
staff)                                                                                                 environmental 
                                                                                                       health 
                                                                                                       management 
6.2.2. Training of Technicians to operate medical waste               Environmental           1        Strengthen 
management equipment in health care facilities (25                    Health Unit                      capacity for 
participants)                                                                                          environmental 
                                                                                                       health 
                                                                                                       management 
7.1.1. Recruit Program Administrator                                  National Malaria        1        Strengthen 
                                                                      Control Program                  capacity of malaria 
                                                                                                       control  
7.1.2. International TA to strengthen management                      National Malaria        1        Strengthen 
                                                                      Control Program                  capacity of malaria 
                                                                                                       control  
7.1.3. Recruitment of national consultants                            National Malaria        1        Strengthen 
                                                                      Control Program                  capacity of malaria 
                                                                                                       control  
7.1.4. Regional training on epidemiology                              National Malaria        1        Strengthen 
                                                                      Control Program                  capacity of malaria 
                                                                                                       control  
7.1.5. Refresher training of laboratory technicians                   National Malaria        1        Strengthen 
                                                                      Control Program                  capacity of malaria 
                                                                                                       control  
7.1.6. Office equipment, furniture and supplies                       National Malaria        1        Strengthen 
                                                                      Control Program                  capacity of malaria 
                                                                                                       control  
7.2.1. Production of training materials on case management            National Malaria        1        Strengthen 
                                                                      Control Program                  capacity of malaria 
                                                                                                       control  
7.2.2. TOT on malaria case management/ IMCI (25                       National Malaria        1        Capacity building 
participants)                                                         Control Program                  in malaria case 
                                                                                                       management 
7.2.3. Training of clinical staff on malaria case management          National Malaria        1        Capacity building
                                                                      Control Program                  in malaria case 
                                                                                                       management 
7.2.4. TA to produce training materials for Community Health          National Malaria        1        Capacity building
Workers                                                               Control Program                  in malaria case 
                                                                                                       management 
7.2.5. Training of community representatives on Standard              National Malaria        1        Capacity building
Case Management (50 participants)                                     Control Program                  in malaria case 
                                                                                                       management 
7.2.6. Sentinel surveillance for drug efficacy (in 2 districts        National Malaria        1        Capacity building
hospitals of 4 Project Districts)                                     Control Program                  in malaria case 
                                                                                                       management 
7.2.7. Provide anti-malarials                                         National Malaria        1        Improve malaria 
                                                                      Control Program                  case management 
7.3.1. Provision, marketing and distribution of ITNs (contract)       National Malaria        1        Improve malaria 
                                                                      Control Program                  case management 
7.3.3. Continuous Health Education/ IEC community                     National Malaria        1        Improve malaria 
mobilization for Malaria Prevention                                   Control Program                  case management 
8.1.1. Recruit Program Administrator                                  TB and Leprosy          1        Strengthen 
                                                                      Control Program                  capacity for TB 
                                                                                                       control 
8.1.2. Workshop to develop joint action plan                          TB and Leprosy          1        Strengthen 
                                                                      Control Program                  capacity for TB 
                                                                                                       control 
8.1.3. Support for implementation/ coordination of joint action       TB and Leprosy          1        Strengthen 
plan                                                                  Control Program                  capacity for TB 
                                                                                                       control 
8.1.4. Procure Office equipment, furniture and supplies               TB and Leprosy          1        Strengthen 
                                                                      Control Program                  capacity for TB 




                                                                 28
                           Activity                                  Beneficiary       Component       Objective 
                                                                                                    control 

8.1.6. Incentives for field staff (Sister, CHO, Field Supervisor,   TB and Leprosy         1        Strengthen 
Assistant Supervisor, Laboratory Assistant, Treatment               Control Program                 capacity for TB 
Officer, Driver)                                                                                    control 
8.2.1. Conducting of advocacy meetings with communities             TB and Leprosy         1        Strengthen TB
and DHMTs                                                           Control Program                 control 
8.2.3. Survey of health facilities re TB                            TB and Leprosy         1        Strengthen TB
                                                                    Control Program                 control 
8.2.6. IEC campaign implementation                                  TB and Leprosy         1        Strengthen TB
                                                                    Control Program                 control 
8.2.7. Support for World TB Day activities                          TB and Leprosy         1        Strengthen TB
                                                                    Control Program                 control 
8.2.8. Printing of M&E forms                                        TB and Leprosy         1        Strengthen TB
                                                                    Control Program                 control 
8.2.9. Supervision of clinical and lab staff                        TB and Leprosy         1        Strengthen TB
                                                                    Control Program                 control 
8.2.10. Refresher workshop for medical officers on TB (20           TB and Leprosy         1        Strengthen TB
participants)                                                       Control Program                 control 
8.2.11. Workshop for paramedical officers on TB (20                 TB and Leprosy         1        Strengthen TB
participants)                                                       Control Program                 control 
8.2.12. Workshop for nurses on TB (20 participants)                 TB and Leprosy         1        Strengthen TB
                                                                    Control Program                 control 
8.2.13. Orientation of HC staff on TB (30 participants)             TB and Leprosy         1        Strengthen TB
                                                                    Control Program                 control 
8.2.14. Attend conferences, meetings and workshops (2               TB and Leprosy         1        Strengthen TB
participants)                                                       Control Program                 control 
8.2.15. Establishment of DOTS centers in chiefdoms of               TB and Leprosy         1        Strengthen TB
project beneficiary districts.                                      Control Program                 control 
8.3.1. Provide microscopes, furniture, supplies and reagents        TB and Leprosy         1        Strengthen TB
                                                                    Control Program                 control 
8.3.2. Refresher workshop for lab assistants on TB                  TB and Leprosy         1        Strengthen TB
                                                                    Control Program                 control 
9.1.1. Conducting of community sensitization and                    Onchocerciasis         1        Strengthen 
mobilization for CDTI                                               Control Program                 Onchocerciasis 
                                                                                                    control 
9.1.2. Training of 800 Nurses and PHU staff on CDTI                 Onchocerciasis         1        Strengthen 
                                                                    Control Program                 Onchocerciasis 
                                                                                                    control 
9.1.3. Conducting of CDD training                                   Onchocerciasis         1        Strengthen 
                                                                    Control Program                 Onchocerciasis 
                                                                                                    control 
9.1.4. Distribution of Ivermectin                                   Onchocerciasis         1        Strengthen 
                                                                    Control Program                 Onchocerciasis 
                                                                                                    control 
9.1.5. Conducting of monitoring and supervision Data                Onchocerciasis         1        Strengthen 
collection and Analysis.                                            Control Program                 Onchocerciasis 
                                                                                                    control 
9.1.6. Conducting of annual review and prize giving.                Onchocerciasis         1        Strengthen 
                                                                    Control Program                 Onchocerciasis 
                                                                                                    control 
9.2.1. Procurement of 5 Toyota Hilux 4WD                            Onchocerciasis         1        Strengthen 
                                                                    Control Program                 Onchocerciasis 
                                                                                                    control 
9.2.2. Procurement of 2000 bicycles                                 Onchocerciasis         1        Strengthen 
                                                                    Control Program                 Onchocerciasis 
                                                                                                    control 
9.2.3. Procurement of 10 motorbikes                                 Onchocerciasis         1        Strengthen 
                                                                    Control Program                 Onchocerciasis 
                                                                                                    control 
9.2.4. Procurement of 1000 bicycles                                 Onchocerciasis         1        Strengthen 
                                                                    Control Program                 Onchocerciasis 
                                                                                                    control 



                                                             29
                          Activity                                Beneficiary      Component      Objective 
10.1.2. Equipment, furniture and supplies for renovated          Moyamba,              1        Improve access to 
CHCs                                                             Bombali,                       services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
10.1.3. Equipment, furniture and supplies for M&E office         Moyamba,              1        Improve access to 
                                                                 Bombali,                       services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
10.1.4. Laboratory equipment and supplies                        Moyamba,              1        Improve access to 
                                                                 Bombali,                       services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
10.1.5. Essential Drugs                                          Moyamba,              1        Improve access to 
                                                                 Bombali,                       services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
10.1.6. Supplementary food for vulnerable groups                 Moyamba,              1        Improve access to 
                                                                 Bombali,                       services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
10.1.7. Support for health education activities                  Moyamba,              1        Improve access to 
                                                                 Bombali,                       services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 

10.2.2. Training on health waste management in health            Moyamba,              1        Improve access to 
centers                                                          Bombali,                       services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono districts 
10.2.3. Supplies for health waste management (bags,              Moyamba,              1        Improve access to 
gloves, etc.)                                                    Bombali,                       services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
10.2.4. Operating costs for incinerators and septic tanks        Moyamba,              1        Improve access to 
                                                                 Bombali,                       services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
10.3.1. Training of PHU staff on emergency obstetric care        Moyamba,              1        Improve access to
and life - saving skills                                         Bombali,                       services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
10.3.2. Training of PHU staff on IMCI                            Moyamba,              1        Improve access to 
                                                                 Bombali,                       services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
10.3.3. Provision of Solar Panels for delivery rooms in PHUs     Moyamba,              1        Improve access to 
                                                                 Bombali,                       services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
11.1.2. Equipment, furniture and supplies for renovated          Moyamba,              1        Improve access to 
CHCs                                                             Bombali,                       services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
11.1.3. Equipment, furniture and supplies for M&E office         Moyamba,              1        Improve access to 
                                                                 Bombali,                       services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
11.1.5. Procure essential drugs                                  Moyamba,              1        Improve access to 
                                                                 Bombali,                       services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
11.1.7. Support for Health Education activities                  Moyamba,              1        Improve access to 
                                                                 Bombali,                       services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 



                                                            30
                          Activity                                Beneficiary         Component      Objective 
                                                                 Kono Districts


17.1.1. Design/Supervision of hospital rehabilitation            Moyamba,                 1        Improve access to 
                                                                 Bombali,                          services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
17.1.2. Procurement of hospital furniture and equipment          Moyamba,                 1        Improve access to 
                                                                 Bombali,                          services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
17.1.3. Procurement of specialized and essential drugs           Moyamba,                 1        Improve access to 
                                                                 Bombali,                          services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
17.1.4. Study tour for hospital board members on hospital        Moyamba,                 1        Improve access to 
Management.                                                      Bombali,                          services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
17.1.5. Training of hospital staff on the management of          Moyamba,                 1        Improve access to 
common communicable diseases                                     Bombali,                          services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
17.1.6. Provision of oxygen concentrators for pediatric and      Moyamba,                 1        Improve access to 
maternity wards                                                  Bombali,                          services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
17.1.8. Operational costs (stationery, fuel, maintenance etc.)   Moyamba,                 1        Improve access to 
                                                                 Bombali,                          services 
                                                                 Koinadugu and 
                                                                 Kono Districts 
                                                                 Koinadugu District       1        Improve access to 
Additional Facilities at Kabala Government Hospital                                                services 
                                                                 Koinadugu District       1        Improve access to 
Additional Facilities at Makeni Government Hospital                                                services 
                                                                 Koinadugu District       1        Improve access to 
Additional Facilities at Moyamba Government Hospital                                               services 




                                                            31
                                                                                              
Component 2
1.1.1. Publication of the revised National Health Policy (500 copies)   DPI                      2    Provide a National 
                                                                                                      Health Policy 
1.1.2. Support to Sierra Leone Medical and Dental Association           SLMDA                    2    Contribution 
(SLMDA) for annual meeting                                                                            towards quality 
                                                                                                      service delivery 
1.1.3. Support to Sierra Leone Nurses' and Midwives' Association        SLNMA                    2    Contribution 
(SLNMA) for annual meeting.                                                                           towards quality 
                                                                                                      service delivery 
1.1.4. Support to Sierra Leone Medical and Dental Council (SLMDC)       SLMDA                    2    Contribution 
for annual meeting.                                                                                   towards quality 
                                                                                                      service delivery 
1.1.5. Support for Traditional Medical Association                      SLATMP                   2    Contribution 
                                                                                                      towards quality 
                                                                                                      service delivery 
1.2.1. Architect recruited                                              Architectural            2    Strengthen civil 
                                                                        Services Unit                 works 
1.2.2. Assistant Architect recruited                                    Architectural            2    Strengthen civil 
                                                                        Services  Unit                works 
1.2.4. Supervision of construction of 4 district Hospitals and 12       Architectural            2    Improve quality of 
Community Health Centers.                                               Services Unit                 civil works 
1.2.5. Attended international conferences, seminars and workshops       Architectural            2    Strengthen civil 
                                                                        Services  Unit                works 
1.2.11. Procurement of vehicle for country-wide supervision of Civil    Architectural            2    Strengthen civil 
Works (Assistant Architect)                                             Services  Unit                works 
1.2.12. Surveying and registration of land around 4 hospitals and 12    Architectural            2    Improve access to 
CHC.                                                                    Services  Unit                health care 
1.3.1. Recruitment of Procurement Specialist                            Procurement Unit         2    Strengthen 
                                                                                                      procurement unit 
1.3.2. Recruitment of Assistant Procurement Specialist                  Procurement Unit         2    Strengthen 
                                                                                                      procurement unit 
1.3.3. Recruitment of Procurement Clerk                                 Procurement Unit         2    Strengthen 
                                                                                                      procurement unit 
1.3.4. Recruitment of Procurement Secretary                             Procurement Unit         2    Strengthen 
                                                                                                      procurement unit 
1.3.5. Procurement of office equipment and supplies                     Procurement Unit         2    Strengthen 
                                                                                                      procurement unit 
1.3.6. Procurement of 4WD vehicle for Procurement Unit                  Procurement Unit         2    Strengthen 
                                                                                                      procurement unit 
1.3.7. Training of staff on Procurement Guidelines                      Procurement Unit         2    Strengthen 
                                                                                                      procurement unit 
1.3.8. Attend international conferences, training, seminars and         Procurement Unit         2    Strengthen capacity 
workshop etc.                                                                                         in procurement unit 
1.3.9. Procurement training for District Finance Officers               Procurement Unit         2    Strengthen district 
                                                                                                      procurement 
                                                                                                      capacity 
1.3.10. Conducting of one day workshop to finalize procurement plan     Procurement Unit         2    Strengthen capacity 
                                                                                                      in procurement unit 
1.4.1. Recruitment of Donor/NGO Liaison Officer                         Donor/NGO Liaison        2    Strengthen 
                                                                        Officer                       NGO/Donor 
                                                                                                      coordination  
1.4.2. Recruitment of Assistant Donor/NGO Liaison Officer               Donor/NGO Liaison        2    Strengthen 
                                                                        Officer                       NGO/Donor 
                                                                                                      coordination  
1.4.3. Data collection and survey on Donor/NGO activities and project   Donor/NGO Liaison        2    Strengthen 
                                                                        Officer                       NGO/Donor 
                                                                                                      coordination  
1.4.4. Periodic meetings for donors and NGOs                            Donor/NGO Liaison        2    Strengthen 
                                                                        Officer                       NGO/Donor 
                                                                                                      coordination  
1.4.5. Monitoring and supervision of NGO activities countrywide         Donor/NGO Liaison        2    Strengthen 
                                                                        Officer                       NGO/Donor 
                                                                                                      coordination  




                                                           32
1.4.6. Produce handbook on donors and NGOs                              Donor/NGO Liaison   2    Strengthen 
                                                                        Officer                  NGO/Donor 
                                                                                                 coordination  
1.4.7. Produce Newsletter for the Ministry and health sector            Donor/NGO Liaison   2    Improve 
                                                                        Officer                  information 
                                                                                                 dissemination 
1.4.8. TA for development and management of website                     MOHS                2    Improve 
                                                                                                 information 
                                                                                                 dissemination 
1.4.9. Training on website management                                   MOHS                2    Improve 
                                                                                                 information 
                                                                                                 dissemination 
1.4.10. Attend international conferences, meetings, trainings and       Donor/NGO Liaison   2    Strengthen 
workshops.                                                              Officer                  NGO/Donor 
                                                                                                 Coordination  
1.4.11. Procurement of office furniture, equipment and supplies         Donor/NGO Liaison   2    Strengthen 
                                                                        Officer                  NGO/Donor 
                                                                                                 coordination  
1.4.12. Procurement of vehicle for Donor/ NGO Liaison Office            Donor/NGO Liaison   2    Strengthen 
                                                                        Officer                  NGO/Donor 
                                                                                                 coordination  
2.1.1. Recruit Planning Director                                        Directorate of      2    Strengthen DPI
                                                                        Planning and 
                                                                        Information. 
2.1.2. Recruit Health Economist                                         Directorate of      2    Strengthen DPI
                                                                        Planning and 
                                                                        Information. 
2.1.3. Short-term training in health economics and financing.           Directorate of      2    Strengthen DPI
                                                                        Planning and 
                                                                        Information. 
2.1.4. Annual revision/reproduction of the planning guidelines and      Directorate of      2    Improve Health 
directives                                                              Planning and             planning 
                                                                        Information. 
2.1.5. District-level training on data collection and report-writing    Directorate of      2    Improve 
                                                                        Planning and             information systems 
                                                                        Information. 
2.1.6. Printing of forms                                                Directorate of      2    Improve 
                                                                        Planning and             information systems 
                                                                        Information. 
2.1.7. Procurement of office furniture, equipment and supplies          Directorate of      2    Strengthen DPI
                                                                        Planning and 
                                                                        Information. 
2.1.8. Attend International conferences, trainings, meetings and        Directorate of      2    Improve Health
workshops.                                                              Planning and             planning 
                                                                        Information. 
2.1.9. Regular consultative meetings on the implementation of cost      Directorate of      2    Improve cost 
recovery with Program Managers and DHMTS (Quarterly)                    Planning and             recovery 
                                                                        Information. 
2.1.11. Conduct District/ regional preparatory planning and budgeting   Directorate of      2    Improve Health 
workshops                                                               Planning and             planning 
                                                                        Information. 
2.1.12. Annual National Health Review and Planning                      Directorate of      2    Improve Health 
                                                                        Planning and             planning 
                                                                        Information. 
2.1.13. Printing of final, updated version of PHC Operational           Directorate of      2    Improve district 
Handbook                                                                Planning and             operations 
                                                                        Information. 
2.1.14. Conduct Consultative meetings on decentralization               Directorate of      2    Facilitate smooth 
                                                                        Planning and             devolution of health 
                                                                        Information.             activities 
2.2.1. Recruit Medical Statistician                                     Directorate of      2    Strengthen DPI
                                                                        Planning and 
                                                                        Information. 




                                                              33
2.2.2. Recruit Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist                       Directorate of    2    Strengthen DPI
                                                                          Planning and 
                                                                          Information. 
2.2.3. Attend international conferences, seminars and workshops           Directorate of    2    Strengthen DPI
                                                                          Planning and 
                                                                          Information. 
2.2.4. Training of M and E Officers in the use of Computerized Data       Directorate of    2    Improve HIS for 
Base for Health Management Information System.                            Planning and           decision making 
                                                                          Information. 
2.2.5. Support Districts to conduct cascade training on the use of        Directorate of    2    Improve HIS for 
revised PHU and new hospital forms                                        Planning and           decision making 
                                                                          Information. 
2.2.7. Support MCH module for Core Welfare Indicators (addition to        Directorate of    2    Support availability 
SSL's CWIQ) survey                                                        Planning and           of data 
                                                                          Information. 
2.2.8. Short - term training for Medical Statistician.                    Directorate of    2    Strengthen DPI
                                                                          Planning and 
                                                                          Information. 
2.2.9. Recruitment of driver for Medical Statistician                     Directorate of    2    Strengthen DPI
                                                                          Planning and 
                                                                          Information. 
2.2.10. Procurement of 4WD vehicle for M & E Specialist                   Directorate of    2    Strengthen DPI
                                                                          Planning and 
                                                                          Information. 
2.2.11. Procurement of 5 motorcycles to strengthen M & E.                 Directorate of    2    Strengthen DPI
                                                                          Planning and 
                                                                          Information. 
2.2.12. Production of guidelines/manual on the use of Hospital data       Directorate of    2    Improve data 
collection forms and registers.                                           Planning and           collection 
                                                                          Information. 
2.2.13 Train health care workers in use of data collection forms          Directorate of    2    Improve data 
                                                                          Planning and           collection 
                                                                          Information. 
2.2.14. Print data collection forms                                       Directorate of    2    Improve data 
                                                                          Planning and           collection 
                                                                          Information. 
2.3.1. Update database on the distribution of health care facilities in   Directorate of    2    Improve data 
the country.                                                              Planning and           collection 
                                                                          Information. 
2.3.2. Develop GIS map with distribution of health care facilities        Directorate of    2    Provide maps for 
country-wide                                                              Planning and           improved planning 
                                                                          Information. 
2.4.1. National sensitization on the National Health Account (NHA) and    Directorate of    2    Support planning
identification of health care providers.                                  Planning and 
                                                                          Information. 
3.1.1. Recruit Director of Financial Resources                            Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
                                                                          Planning and           management 
                                                                          Information. 
3.1.2. Recruit Management Accountant                                      Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
                                                                          Planning and           management 
                                                                          Information. 
3.1.3. Publish revised accounting manual                                  Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
                                                                          Planning and           management 
                                                                          Information. 
3.1.4. Printing of Integrated annual draft budget.                        Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
                                                                          Planning and           management 
                                                                          Information. 
3.2.1. Train relevant staff on the use of financial Management            Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
software.                                                                 Financial              management 
                                                                          Management 
3.2.2. Train secretaries and finance staff on computer applications       Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
                                                                          Financial              management 
                                                                          Management 




                                                             34
3.2.3. Short-term training on record keeping and budgeting                 Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
                                                                           Financial              management 
                                                                           Management 
3.2.4. Formal training of Finance Officers on Double Entry, Book           Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
Keeping and Bank Reconciliation.                                           Financial              management 
                                                                           Management 
3.2.5. Conduct Regional budgeting workshops                                Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
                                                                           Financial              management 
                                                                           Management 
3.2.6. Training of Finance Officers and Program Managers on                Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
liquidation of workshop expenses.                                          Financial              management 
                                                                           Management 
3.2.7. Training for Graduate Accountant in public sector accounting        Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
and budgeting (IPAM)                                                       Financial              management 
                                                                           Management 
                                                                           Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
3.2.8. Training of Finance Officers in public sector accounting &          Financial              management 
budgeting.                                                                 Management 
                                                                           Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
                                                                           Financial              management 
3.2.9. Attend international conferences, seminars and workshops            Management 
3.2.10. Regional workshop in stock keeping and accounting                  Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
                                                                           Financial              management 
                                                                           Management 
3.2.11. Incremental allowances for Support Staff .                         Directorate of    2    Ensure job 
                                                                           Financial              satisfaction 
                                                                           Management 
3.2.12. Recruitment of additional support staff (two Drivers and Six       Directorate of    2    Strengthen 
Secretaries)                                                               Financial              management 
                                                                           Management 
3.3.2. Operational costs (Telephone bills, stationery, vehicle and         Directorate of    2    Strengthen 
equipment maintenance, fuel, etc.)                                         Financial              management 
                                                                           Management 
3.3.3. Retainer for maintenance and repairs of computers and               Directorate of    2    Strengthen 
accessories.                                                               Financial              management 
                                                                           Management 
3.4.1. Procurement of vehicles for country-wide monitoring and             Directorate of    2    Strengthen 
supervision.                                                               Financial              management and 
                                                                           Management             supervision 
3.4.2. Procurement of office equipment, furniture and supplies.            Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
                                                                           Financial              management 
                                                                           Management 
3.4.3. Furnishing of offices for finance officers in Bombali, Koinadugu,   Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
Kono, and Moyamba.                                                         Financial              management 
                                                                           Management 
3.4.4. Procurement of equipment for Financial Management Unit              Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
(FMU)                                                                      Financial              management 
                                                                           Management 
3.5.1. Conducting of consultative workshop on drug cost recovery           Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
management at regional level.                                              Financial              management 
                                                                           Management 
                                                                           Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
3.6.1 Revise the financial management system of the Ministry taking        Financial              management 
into consideration all sources of funds.                                   Management 
                                                                           Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
                                                                           Financial              management 
3.6.2 Assistance with financial management decentralization                Management 
                                                                           Directorate of    2    Strengthen financial 
3.6.3. Computerized budgeting accounting and software for the              Financial              management 
ministry - final payment.                                                  Management 
Recruit Internal Auditor                                                   Directorate of    2    Strengthen internal 
                                                                           Internal Audit         audit 
Recruit Assistant Internal Auditor                                         Directorate of    2    Strengthen internal 
                                                                           Internal Audit         audit 




                                                            35
TA for annual audit                                                         Directorate of          2    Strengthen internal 
                                                                            Internal Audit               audit 
5.1.1. Recruit Manager of Human Resources                                   Human Resources         2    Strengthen HR unit
                                                                            Unit 
5.1.2. Support for specialized training (midwifery, anesthesiology, etc.)   Human Resources         2    Strengthen HRH
                                                                            Unit 
5.1.3. Support for implementation of the annual in-service training plan    Human Resources         2    Strengthen HRH
                                                                            Unit 
5.1.4. Conducting of personnel verification                                 Human Resources         2    Strengthen HRH
                                                                            Unit 
5.1.5. Conduct survey to assess training needs for critical skills          Human Resources         2    Strengthen HRH
                                                                            Unit 
5.1.6. Review of HR training policy                                         Human Resources         2    Strengthen HRH
                                                                            Unit 
5.1.7. Training of staff on personnel records management                    Human Resources         2    Strengthen HRH
                                                                            Unit 
5.1.8. Management of personnel database                                     Human Resources         2    Strengthen HRH
                                                                            Unit 
2.1.15. Procure 4WD vehicle for Health Economist                            Directorate of               Strengthen DPI
                                                                            Planning and 
                                                                            Information. 
2.2.6. Conduct regional workshops to train DHMT members on survey           Directorate of               Support availability 
methodology.                                                                Planning and                 of data 
                                                                            Information. 




                                                            36
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

89.     It was agreed during preparation that an economic analysis would not be required.
Instead a health sector Public Expenditures Review was carried out during preparation. It
was recognized that until economic development takes off, the funding of the health
sector will largely depend on donor funding and that the present credit would not be
sustainable until there is substantial macroeconomic development. The project invested in
activities that have well documented cost effectiveness ratios such as improving basic
health services, primary health care, first referral health facilities, human resources
development, and support to programs addressing important infectious disease controls
(malaria, tuberculosis, onchocerciasis, sanitation). These infectious diseases represent a
major economic burden on the country by lowering the productivity of workers and
increasing the cost of treatment. Essential services supported by the project are those
designated by the Bank as a cost-effective package for low-income countries.

90.     Financial issues such as measures for ensuring financial accountability and
management of funds generated from cost recovery would be addressed during project
implementation. External audit reports and financial analysis of the earlier project
implemented by MOHS had been unqualified. The US$1 million in counterpart fund
requirement was waived during project implementation and IDA allowed 100% financing
of eligible expenditures according to the Country Financing Parameters.




                                           37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

        (a) Task Team members
                 Names                                Title                   Unit
  Akinrinmola Oyenuga Akinyele         Financial Management Specialist       AFTFM
  Johanne Angers                       Senior Operations Officer             AFTHE
  Ferdinand Tsri Apronti               Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
                                       Sr. Monitoring & Evaluation
  Andrew Osei Asibey                                                         AFTRL
                                       Specialist
  Evelyn Awittor                       Senior Operations Officer             AFTHE
                                                                             AFTH2 -
  Ousmane Bangoura                     Consultant
                                                                               HIS
  Samuel Bruce-Smith                   Consultant                            AFTFM
  Wolfgang M. T. Chadab                Senior Finance Officer                CTRFC
  Gregoria Dawson-Amoah                Program Assistant                     AFCW1
  Robert Wallace DeGraft-Hanson        Financial Management Specialist       AFTFM
  Edward Felix Dwumfour                Sr. Environmental Specialist          AFTEN
  Astrid Helgeland-Lawson              Sr. Operations Officer                AFTH2
  Manush A. Hristov                    Sr. Counsel                           LEGAF
  Jonathan Nyamukapa                   Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
  Oluwole Pratt                        Financial Management Analyst          AFTFM
  Alexander S. Preker                  Lead Economist, Health                CICHE
  Laura L. Rose                        Sr. Economist (Health)                AFTHE
  Pamela O. Sofola                     Resource Management Analyst           AFTRM
  Frederick Yankey                     Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
  Yongmei Zhou                         Sr. Institutional Dev. Spec.          SASDU

   (b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                US$ Thousands
       Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                                consultant costs)
             Lending
               FY02                            14                         86.88
               FY03                            19                         72.61
               FY04                                                        0.00
               FY05                                                        0.00
               FY06                                                        0.00
               FY07                                                        0.00
               FY08                                                        0.00
                             Total:            33                        159.49




                                          38
Supervision/ICR
      FY02                          0.00
      FY03                   17    57.35
      FY04                   26   116.84
      FY05                   22   116.96
      FY06                   21   128.12
      FY07                   55   156.45
      FY08                   36   104.84
      FY09                   24     0.00
                  Total:    201   680.56




                           39
Annex 5. Borrower's ICR

91.     Introduction. The 10year civil war devastated most of the health care
infrastructure and other social services. In order to help the country rebuild its health care
services, the World Bank supported the GOSL with a grant of 20 million US dollars to
implement the Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project (HSRDP). This 5-
year project was specifically designed to help the GOSL in its post-war rehabilitation and
development efforts by restoring the most essential functions in the health delivery
system.

92.     These choices were based on criteria such as health needs, timeliness of the
interventions, cost-effectiveness, and a potential positive impact of health interventions
on stability and resettlement of the population of certain districts. Some other important
considerations were: (i) the size of the financial gap in some areas or, conversely, the
support from other donors (such as WHO and UNICEF in safe motherhood,
immunizations and nutrition; EU and ADB in drug procurement, stock management and
distribution); (ii) the potential for raising grants for activities such as Onchocerciasis and
HIV/AIDS; and (iii) a preoccupation with keeping the project relatively simple and
doable.

93.    The goal of the project was to restore the most essential functions in the health
care delivery system of the country. The development objectives of the project were to:

   (i)     Increase access to essential health services in four districts  Bombali,
           Koinadugu, Kono, and Moyamba;
   (ii)    improve the performance of technical programs on Malaria, Tuberculosis,
           Sanitation and Onchocerciasis;
   (iii)   strengthen the health sector management capacity to improve efficiency and
           decentralization; and
   (iv)    support the development of the private sector and involvement of civil society
           in decision making.

94.     OBJECTIVE 1: Increase access to essential health services in four districts. The
first specific objective was limited in scope to the four districts which met specific
selection criteria (such as importance to the demobilization, resettlement and peace
processes; magnitude of the public health problems; clear need to rehabilitate the
infrastructure for service delivery, etc.). Within these four districts, the project focused
on the rehabilitation of priority health facilities, and support for delivery of affordable
and high quality services.

95.    OBJECTIVE 2: Improve performance of technical programs on Malaria,
Tuberculosis, Sanitation and Onchocerciasis. Through this objective, the project sought
to reduce the burden of some of the most critical infectious diseases country-wide by
giving support to Malaria and TB control activities, and the Sanitation programs.




                                             40
96.     OBJECTIVE 3: strengthen the health sector management capacity to improve
efficiency and decentralization. The third specific objective aimed to improve efficiency
and to make the health sector more responsive to the needs of the population by
supporting district health teams country-wide and five key services of the MOHS (i.e.
Human Resources Development; Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation; Financial
Management; Procurement; and Donor and NGO coordination).

97.     OBJECTIVE 4: support the development of the private sector and involvement of
civil society in decision making. The fourth specific objective was to improve the quality
of services by (i) promoting development and regulation of the private sector,
strengthening the quality of care and enhancing the contribution of the private sector to
the achievement of public health objectives, (ii) providing incentives to health care
providers to establish practices in rural areas and smaller cities, (iii) outsourcing clinical
and non-clinical services from the private sector, and by (iv) involving the civil society in
decision making in the health administration and in health facilities.

98.    While the project initially focused on the restoration of health care delivery, it was
to provide increased support to the reform process in the health sector, including to cost-
recovery and the set up of mechanisms to protect the access of the poorest population to
services.

99.     The project was effective in February 2003 with a completion date of February
2008. The Mid-term Review was held in February 2006, and since then much progress
was achieved in all the four components of the project and the additional new critical
areas that were added during the mid-term review.

100. About mid-way through the project, the Government requested additional funding
for the following reasons:

       Scale up Onchocerciasis control and prevention (2.8million equivalent)
       Strengthen Avian Influenza awareness and preparedness (0.4 million equivalent)
       Improve operational conditions of health facilities (4.8 million equivalents)  this
       was needed (i) complete civil works on existing facilities; and (ii) and to construct
       additional facilities for hospitals and community health centers.

101. In order to incorporate these additional activities, the following changes were
made to the project:

       The funding for malaria control activities was reduced, including for the
       promotion and distribution of insecticide-treated bed-nets and other malaria
       control activities. This was because the Global Fund had started to support those
       components.
       Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) were revised to better reflect project activities.




                                             41
Progress With Regards To Project Objectives

102. Objective 1: Increase access to essential health services in four districts.
Component 1 of HSRDP was to restore some of the most basic health services in the four
districts. This component was the main thrust of the project as it focused on rebuilding 16
health facilities in the four districts. With support from the project, 12 peripheral health
units, 3 in each of the four districts, were either reconstructed or rehabilitated. Also 3
hospitals were rehabilitated and one new hospital was constructed in Makeni town.
Renovation work on the government hospital in Kono was however not fully completed,
even though a significant amount of the work was done. The facilities were all equipped
with new equipment. The construction of these new facilities has contributed to
increasing the proportion of people with access to health care from 60% before the
project to over 70%.

103. Additional funds were used to built staff quarters for staff working in the hospitals
in Makeni, Kabala and Moyamba. These quarters have served as incentives for qualified
staff to work in these hospitals.

104. Objective 2: improve the performance of the technical programs: Malaria,
Tuberculosis, Sanitation and Onchocerciasis. The HSRDP provided support for 4 key
programmes, malaria control, TB control, Waste Management and Onchocerciasis
control. With supplemental funding, control of avian flu was also supported.

105. In terms of malaria control, with HSRDP support a total of 160,000 insecticide
treated bed nets were procured and distributed in the 4 priority districts. This helped to
increase the number of children sleeping under insecticide treated bed nets. Also, staff
were trained in the control of malaria, leading to better management of cases. The
management of the programme was greatly enhanced as a result of the additional staff
that was supported through the project.

106. The support requested for TB control complemented the efforts of government
and partners to expand DOTS services in the four districts. The capacity of health staff in
the diagnosis and treatment of TB was expanded into the four supported districts. The
programme worked with the respective district health management teams (DHMTs) in
identifying and establishing diagnostic and treatment centres. Laboratory equipment,
furniture and other supplies were procured and distributed to these centres. Community
sensitization activities were also carried out in the chiefdoms to improve TB case
detection and treatment. Community sensitization was strengthened, leading to an
increase in case detection and TB Treatment success rates. Existing DOTS centres were
strengthened.

107. Objective 3: strengthen the health sector management capacity to improve
efficiency and decentralization. With support from HSRDP, the Directorate of Planning
and Information (DPI) has been strengthened through the recruitment of key personnel
for the unit. The personnel recruited are the Director of Planning and Information, a
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, the medical statistician and the health economist.



                                            42
108. In order to make the unit more functional, it has been supported logistically, by
the procurement of vehicles, office equipment and supplies. The project supported the
following units in the Directorate: Policy and Planning, Health Financing and, Health
Information Systems Unit.

109. With regards to health policy and planning, the planning process of the Ministry
has greatly improved. The Annual review meetings have helped the Ministry and partners
to decide on the way forward in addressing the challenges faced by the Ministry in
providing health care. With direction from DPI, in 2009, each district developed its
comprehensive health plan based on the needs of the district and included activities of
most stakeholders in the health sector working in the district. These plans will contribute
not only towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), but will also
improve overall health outcomes for the entire population.

110. In order to ensure the proper management of funds received from the cost
recovery program, the unit carried out a series of workshops in the 4 HSRDP supported
districts. These workshops clearly resulted in better management of the cost recovery
funds in the 4 districts.

111. HSRDP support for health information system has helped improve the
information system in the entire Ministry. Access to accurate and timely data has greatly
improved within the sector. This has contributed to better planning and better decision
making within the sector.

112. HSRDP also supported the setting up of a functional internal audit unit in the
Ministry. Staff members were trained to perform these functions, and internal control
mechanisms were established. The unit has been instrumental in (i) providing invaluable
advice on the design, implementation and operation of financial and management control
systems; and (ii) identifying opportunities to make cost savings and promote a risk-free
and effective internal control culture within the Ministry of Health and Sanitation. The
Internal Audit Unit has set up useful mechanisms for ensuring that high-level information
on risk and control is brought to the Accounting Officer's attention. It has provided
auxiliary support to the work of the Permanent Secretary (Vote Controller) by monitoring
and reviewing the risk, control and governance processes which have been established in
the organization, as well as associated assurance processes.

113. The Donor NGO Liaison Office was supported by the HSRDP to ensure the
coordination and monitoring of all health related partner's activities in line with
government policy and plans, and the harmonization of funds. This has helped promote
collaborative relationships between all health partners and the Government, and
strengthened the dialogue between partners in the health sector. Health partners include
Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs), Donors (Multilateral and Bilateral), Charities,
Faith-Based Organizations (FBOs) and UN agencies. Coordination, collaboration and
communication between partners and the Ministry, has improved considerably and also,
most importantly, within the Ministry. This process is commended by partners within and



                                            43
outside the country, other ministries, regional countries and visitors. The Donor NGO
Liaison Office is utilised by partners as the focal point of the Ministry with regards to
Donor and NGO activities.

114. HSRDP also supported the Procurement Unit through capacity building and
provision of logistics. This helped improve procurement processes within the Ministry
and ensured that the procurement of goods and services was transparent, competitive and
credible.

115. HSRDP support helped the Ministry to prepare Councils to take up their devolved
functions and the Manager/Directorate to understand the process and new roles. As a
result, health services were among the first decentralized functions that were developed,
and the process went on smoothly. The running of district hospitals and community
health facilities are now the responsibility of local governments through their local
councils. The central government has increased budgetary allocations to councils to
enable them better maintain these structures and ensure the regular provision of
pharmaceuticals and supplies. Each of the hospitals and the primary health care
programmes of the councils have a budget line within their respective local council
development budgetary allocations.

116. Objective 4: support the development of the private sector and involvement
of civil society in decision making. This objective concentrated mainly on supporting
the regulatory boards to improve the systems for monitoring the activities of health
professions and health institutions.

Lessons Learned During Project Implementation

117. Objective 1: Increase access to essential health services in four districts.
Several lessons were learned in the implementation of this objective. At the beginning,
the process of recruiting contractors for rehabilitating/reconstructing health facilities was
carried out principally at the central level of MoHS, with very little involvement of the
local communities that were beneficiaries of the facilities. Several delays were
experienced, and when communities were later involved in monitoring of the
construction activities, much progress was made. Similarly for equipment, most of the
contracts were awarded without the involvement of the District teams who were going to
use them. As a result, they were not aware of the items that were bought by the project,
and hence most of them were not installed in a timely manner. The lesson learned there
was that local beneficiaries should be involved in every aspect of the process. This will
increase ownership, and introduce another useful control mechanism.

118. Objective 2: improve the performance of the technical programs: Malaria,
Tuberculosis, Sanitation and Onchocerciasis. The provision of support to only a few
selected technical programmes made the HSRDP support somewhat vertical. Other
programmes felt left out and vertical systems were established. The lesson learned there
is that it is better to support the sector horizontally rather that directing support to
individual programmes. For example, training of staff should be across the board, so it is



                                             44
better to train staff in case management rather than supporting training in only malaria
case management. This approach leads to more efficiency and better results.

119. During the implementation of the HSRDP, other partners came onboard to
support some of the programmes that were already been supported through HSRDP.
Through discussions with these new partners, some of the HSRDP funds were
reprogrammed. The lesson learned there is that regular consultation among implementing
agencies and partners helps harmonize resources and avoid duplication.

120. Objective 3: strengthen the health sector management capacity to improve
efficiency and decentralization. The HSRDP provided technical support for central
level programmes and Directorates and did not set up a separate PIU. The Technical
support to the Ministry served both to manage project and non-project activities. These
additional staff were essential for the Ministry to resume its most vital functions and
further develop the sector. The lesson learned is that rather than bringing in staff for a
separate PIU, it will be better to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry to help carry out
the PIU functions.

121. Also, most of the additional staff recruited by the project were paid exclusively
from the proceeds of the project. The units in which these workers operated are
considered critical outputs of the project which should definitely be sustained,
considering the fact that their existence has added value to the Ministry in terms of
functionality and competency in playing important roles in terms of governance,
leadership and coordination roles. To sustain the gains made by the project, the project
staff have now been absorbed into the Ministry. This process however was not easily
achieved. The lessons learnt there is that all staff employed by project, should be
absorbed into the government payroll at least a year before project closure, so that their
functions and gains will be sustained.

122. Conclusion. The HSRDP helped restore critical health care services in selected
districts and greatly improved the capacity of the Central level MOHS to carry out its
oversight functions. The improvement in the planning process has resulted in the
development of the First National Health Sector Strategic Plan, the development of
comprehensive district plans, the improvement of partner coordination and the movement
towards a SWAp, the setting up of functional coordinating structures, the improvement in
the health information systems and the strengthening of the financial management system.
As a result, the health sector is receiving support from more partners and is looking
positively towards attaining the health MDGs.




                                            45
46
