Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14660
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1535-NEP)
JUNE 22, 1995
Country Operations, Industry & Finance
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees (Rs)
Appraisal Year (FY84):    SDR I  = US$1.0679
US$1.00 = Rs. 14.50
Rs. I  = US$0.069
Completion Year (FY94):   SDR I  = US$1.0957
US$1.00 = Rs. 48.02
Rs. I = US$0.02
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB/N        -      Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
BANSBARI  -         Bansbari Leather and Shoe Factory Ltd.
CIDB         -      Cottage Industries Development Board
CSI          -      Cottage and Small Industries
DCSI         -      Department of Cottage & Small Industries
DEG          -      Deutsche Investitions-und Entwicklungsgesellschaft
ESC          -      Export Services Center
FITA         -      Foreign Investment and Technology Act
HLI          -      Hetauda Leather Industries
HMG          -      His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICICI        -      Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDA          -      International Development Association
IDP          -      Industrial Development Project
IEA          -      Industrial Enterprises Act
IEF          -      Import/Export Facility
ISC          -      Industrial Services Center
JVB          -      Joint Venture Bank
KfW          -      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederauftan
LICC         -      Leather Industries Coordination Cell
MOI          -      Ministry of Industry
NBL          -      Nepal Bank Limited
NIDC         -      Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
NRB          -      Nepal Rastra Bank
PCR          -      Project Completion Report
RBB          -      Rastriya Banijya Bank
RHCDC        -      Raw Hide Collection and Development Company
UNDP         -      United Nations Development Programme
USAID        -      United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                      June 22, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nepal
Industrial Development Project (Credit 1535-NEP)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Nepal Industrial Development
project (Credit 1535-NEP, approved in FY85), prepared by the South Asia Regional Office, with
Part II contributed by the Borrower.
This SDR 7.5 million credit aimed at promoting industrial exports and strengthening Nepal's
Industrial Credit Corporation (NIDC). Project components were a credit line to NIDC, a facility
to finance imported inputs (IEF), a development program for leather processing, studies, and
technical assistance (TA). The project was prepared by Government agencies, with assistance from
IDA
Project implementation was beset by problems. Soon after the credit was declared effective,
the Government asked IDA to cancel the IEF and the main studies and TA components.
Commitments and disbursements were delayed. The credit was closed two years after the original
date, and an amount equivalent to 7.5 percent of the total credit was cancelled. The projects
financed by the sub-loans were larger and more capital-intensive than had been anticipated in the
President's Report. Financial performance of NIDC has been poor, but it has improved in recent
years, with collection ratios ranging between 75 and 90 percent.
Notwithstanding these weaknesses, the operation achieved its main objective. It helped
finance 39 projects with a total investment cost of nearly US$40 million, a majority of which are in
operation, some 4,000 jobs have been created, and the country's industrial exports have flourished.
The leather sector benefitted from the assistance provided, and two parastatals were privatized.
Interest rates were liberalized in 1990. This relative success was facilitated by a simple, highly
focussed design, without excessively detailed conditionalities, and by the liberalization of interest
rates. On the other hand, progress in the institution-building aspects of the project was limited.
Some components were dropped, and NIDC remains financially weak. The outcome of the project
is rated as marginally satisfactory, its institutional development impact as modest and the
sustainability of its benefits as uncertain.
The PCR contains abundant information, but it could have been compressed and tightened.
It does not explain the reason for the abrupt cancellation of key institutional components. It also
fails to show the justification for this kind of subsidized lending to large industrial firms, which
seemed to have access to commercial credit sources. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROTECT
(Credit 1535-NEP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                      Page No.
Preface  .................................................                                               i
Evaluation Summnary  ........................................                                           ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  IDA'S PERSPECTIVE    ....                                 ........        1
1.  Project Identity   ....................................                                    1
2.  Project Background  ..................................                                      1
3.  Project Objectives and Description   ........................                              2
4.  Project Design and Organization  ..........................                                3
5.  Implementation   ....................................                                      3
6.  Project Results   ....................................                                     6
7.  Project Sustainability and Impact   .........................                              8
8.  IDA's Performance  ..................................                                      9
9.  Borrower Performance  ................................                                     9
10. Project Relationships  .................................                                  10
11. Consultant Services   .................................                                   10
12. Project Documentation and Data   .... ..................                                  10
13. Lessons from  the Project  ..............................                                 10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE    .....   12
PART Im:  STATISTICAL SUNMARY   ...........................                                            15
1.  Related IDA Credits   .................................                                   15
2.  Project Timetable  ...................................                                    16
3.  Credit Disbursements   ...............................                                    16
4.  Project Costs and Financing   ............................                                17
5.  Project Resuts    ....................................                                    18
6.  Status of Covenants    .................................                                  19
7.  Use of IDA Resources  ................................                                    21
ANNEXES:
1. An Appraisal of NIDC  .................................                                    22
2. Subproject Information .................................                                   36
3. Subsectoral Distribution of Subloans  ........................                             37
4. Subloan Information by Category  ..........................                                38
5. Cumulative Collection Performance of Subloans   ................                           39
6. Cash Flow  Analysis of NIDC   ............................                                 40
7. Index of Subsidy Dependence for NIDC  ......................                               41
8. Rate of Return from  Current Portfolio  .......................                            43
ATTACHMENT: HMG's letter enclosing Part II .......................                                     45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1535-NEP)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial Development Project in Nepal,
for which Credit 1535-NEP in the amount of US$7.5 million (SDR 7.5 million) equivalent was
approved on December 13, 1984, and made effective on December 20, 1985.
The project was closed on December 31, 1993, compared with the original closing date of
December 31, 1991. The final disbursement under the Credit was made on May 13, 1994, at which
time the credit account was closed after canceling a balance of SDR 0.56 million (7% of the original
credit amount).
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division of
the Country Department 2 of South Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
Ill), and the Borrower (Part lI).
Preparation of this PCR was based on IDA's project completion mission for the project in
February 1994, and information from the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit and Project
Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, internal IDA
correspondence, documentation provided by the implementing agencies, field visits to selected project
sites and discussions with project and IDA staff associated with project implementation. The
borrower contributed to the preparation of the PCR by providing comments on the draft of Parts I
and III and preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution in Part II.






- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1535-NEP)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
i.          As a follow-on operation to the first Industrial Development Project (Cr. 705-NEP)
to the Nepal Industrial Credit Corporation (NIDC), the basic objective of the project was to promote
industrial investments and exports in Nepal, primarily in the private sector, and to carry on with the
institutional strengthening of NIDC. More specifically the project objectives were to: (a) promote
privately owned enterprises, through the financing of Investment Projects for the economic and social
development of Nepal, and also promote the leather industry through financial and technical
assistance to the subsector and to two public sector companies; (b) strengthen NIDC's operational
standards and procedures, through the provision of technical assistance and training; and (c) enhance
HMG's capacity to generate foreign exchange reserves, through the establishment of an Import
Export Facility.
Implementation Experience
ii.          Soon after effectiveness HMG changed its mind regarding some of the Credit
components. Thus, the Import Export Facility (IEF) of US$1.5 million was canceled and the amount
earmarked was added to the subloan component. The tourism promotion study and the incentives
study were also canceled. The project was, therefore, left with only the lending component (US$6.5
million) and two Technical Assistance components (totalling US$1.0 million); one to strengthen the
NIDC and the other to upgrade the leather sector. This pruning of project components actually
improved the clarity and realism of the objectives by focussing on the delivery of credit (lending
component) and the vehicle for delivery (TA to NIDC) without, in any way, reducing the importance
of the main objective of promoting private sector led industrial growth in Nepal. It also reduced the
complexity of the project thereby lowering the demands on the implementation capacity of the
borrower (para 4.2).
iii.        After effectiveness, implementation proceeded slowly. Originally, the Credit was
expected to be committed in four years and disbursed in seven years. However, both commitment
and disbursement under the line of credit were slower than planned. The TA was fully committed
by June 1992, one year after the original completion date, while the Credit component was fully
committed by December 1992; however subloan disbursement was very slow and by the time the
Credit was closed, an amount of SDR 6.09 million was disbursed representing around 93% of the
subloan component of SDR 6.55 million. Some subloans, specially those that were approved in the
last quarter of 1992, were not fully disbursed by the Credit closing date due to various problems.
These subloans are likely to be financed by NIDC by recycling Project funds as well as from other
sources. The Credit account was closed on May 13, 1994, at which time the undisbursed balance
of SDR 0.56 million, representing 7.5% of the total Credit, was canceled. The estimated cost of
the project at appraisal was about US$12.0 million. The final cost is about US$40 million as shown



- iii -
in Table 4A in Part III; it is higher because the total cost of the subproject component was about $38
million compared to about $9.3 million at appraisal. IDA subloans were expected to finance about
70 % of total subproject cost at appraisal. Actual contribution by IDA subloans was only 21 % with
the remaining coming from sponsors and other financiers. The implementation of the technical
assistance component proceeded well under the leather development program but was partially
delayed in the case of NIDC (para 5.3).
Project Results
iv.          The project's objective of expanding the private sector's role in industrial investment
was largely realized. Over 94% of the credit amount was disbursed and majority of the subprojects
are in operation and seem to have had a substantial impact on industrial growth, investment, and
employment. The other key objective of establishing an efficient and financially viable DFI showed
mixed results. The TA to the leather subsector also had a favorable impact on the export sector
(para. 6.10).
v.           At the timne of PCR preparation (mid-1994), 26 out of the 39 subprojects financed
were in commercial operation, four were under litigation having been seized and/or closed, and the
other nine were under implementation and had not drawn-down their respective subloan (Annex-4).
Of the 31 subloans that were fully disbursed, nine (29%) had paid off their entire outstanding
balances and another six (19%) were current in their repayments. Twelve subloans (39%) were in
arrears and another four (13%) were under litigation. Although a majority of the subloans were in
arrears, the amounts involved were not significant (other than those under litigation). This was
expected since most of the subprojects were new and faced unanticipated problems which delayed
installment payments from time to time. The collection data for the forty subloans aggregated for
the three years up to FY93 and adjusted for the fully paid-off subloans, indicated an overall
collection ratio of 75% which matched NIDC's current collection ratio for the entire portfolio, but
was higher than the HIDC's total collection ratio of 52% (paras 6.3 & 6.4)
vi.          Employment figures obtained from the 31 subprojects that were in commercial
operation indicate that about 3,600 additional jobs were created due to this project compared to the
SAR estimate of 2,300 additional jobs. Moreover, at least another 410 jobs are expected to be
created once the remaining nine subprojects go into commercial production, giving a total of about
4,000 jobs with a cost per job of about N.Rs. 450,000 compared to the appraisal estimate of N.Rs.
200,000. This was so because the projects were more capital intensive than anticipated at the time
of appraisal (Annex 4). As expected, the A-category subprojects (subloans above free-limit of
US$150,000) were much more capital intensive with an average cost per job of N.Rs. 526,000 than
the B-category subprojects (subloans below free-limit) with average cost per job of N.Rs. 225,000
(para 6.6).
Sustainability and Impact
vii.         Over the past four years, NIDC has increased its profitability and generated healthy
cash surpluses. In FY94, NIDC had a: net income of over 3 % of total asset; a Rate of Return on
Equity of 9%, a collection rate of 52%; arrears amounting to 23% of portfolio and accumulated
provisions equal to 95 % of the arrears. An analysis of the overall cash flow of NIDC for the four
years ending in July 1993, shows that the annual cash inflow from operations has been, on average,
double the cash outflow from operations (Annex-6). Therefore, only half of NIDC's cash collection



- iv -
of principal, interest and other income goes towards meeting its debt-service obligations and paying
its operating expenses and short-term liabilities, and the other half is recycled for disbursement of
new loans. If this trend continues, NIDC should be able to recycle more than N.Rs. 230 million
(which is equivalent to the IDA lending component) from its cash collections to finance new subloans
during FY95. While NIDC's profitability and cash flow performance is good, particularly in relation
to many of the government owned DFIs elsewhere in South Asia, this apparent healthy performance
is largely due to its long-term borrowing at below market rates, yielding an interest margin of about
6.6%, and its low dividend payout. The Subsidy Dependence Index (SDI) for NIDC shows that it
would have to increase its lending rate by around 37% (from 17% to 23% p.a.) to compensate for
full elimination of subsidies received during FY94 (Annex 7). If NIDC could improve its collection
rates to over 90% it could be sustainable on a non-subsidized basis, without having to raise its
lending rates any further. Looked at another way, the maximum return that NIDC's debt and equity
holders could expect from the present stock of loans is about 7.6. % (Annex 8); this is the rate at
which the NPV of future cash flow from the current outstanding portfolio -- principal/interest
collections, assuming recent collections rates, net of operating costs -- equals the sum of equity and
debt outstanding. The expected return (7.6%) from the current portfolio is about 40% lower than
market rates on L/T investments (e.g., L/T deposits).
viii.        To evaluate the impact of the IDA financed lending component on NIDC's financial
performance, a model was developed to determine the breakeven interest rate, on both marginal and
total cost basis, under different collection scenarios. The marginal break-even interest rate is the
nominal lending rate at which the interest income from the subloan equals the marginal cost of
borrowing. At the current collection rate of 75%, the marginal breakeven rate is around 10-12%
(with and without reinvestment of excess funds) which is substantially lower than the average lending
rate of about 17% on IDA subloans. Thus on a marginal basis, the project is generating a positive
cash flow for NIDC. On a total cost basis (including operating costs which equal 3 % of subloan
outstanding based on past trend) the breakeven rate at the current collection rate of 75% comes to
around 17% which is same as the average lending rate; on this basis NIDC is barely breaking even.
However if account is taken of the earnings on relending of surplus funds (float as a result of
subloans having shorter maturity than borrowed funds) the breakeven rate is around 14% indicating
a positive cash flow on account of the project subloans. The above analysis suggests that the
Project's objective of making NIDC a sustainable development finance institution for term
lending to the private industrial sector is being achieved, albeit modestly.
ix.          The impact of the technical assistance to the leather subsector appears to be positive
as well. Both Bansbari and RHCDC have been successfully privatized and while Bansbari's
performance and profitability has improved already, RHCDC under private management also holds
promise of better performance. In recognition of its positive contributions, LICC has been absorbed
within HMG, after completion of the project, and it should continue to contribute towards the
improvement of leather goods. The output and value-added of leather and leather goods have
increased from N.Rs. 326.4 million and 62.8 million in FY89 to N.Rs. 447.8 million and 131.8
million in FY91 respectively. The exports of hides and skins during this period also increased from
N.Rs. 166.1 million to N.Rs.221.5 million.
Lessons Learned
x.           Whereas it is easier to find the reasons for the failure of a project it is relatively more
difficult to isolate the reasons for its success. A somewhat similar project in Nepal, under which



- v -
subloans were made to only small and cottage industries over almost the same period, failed to
sustain the lending component through the nationalized commercial banks. While it is true that the
reasons for its failure were not all present under this Project, both the projects were implemented
under the same overall financial sector framework.  The main difference lay in the project
conditionalities and the way they were perceived by the implementing agencies and the ultimate
beneficiaries. The reasons for the relative success of this Project provide the following lessons:
(a)   investment lending projects in countries with less developed financial and industrial
sectors should be kept simple with a limited number of components. The highly
focussed objectives and the simple project design made this Project more acceptable
to the Borrower and hence also created a sense of ownership in the Borrower and
NIDC (para 9.1). The objectives were understood by all and the demands on the
implementation capacity of the agencies concerned were not too great (para 4.2).
(b)    credit lines though DFIs for encouraging industrial investments should avoid putting
in micro-management conditionalities as such conditionalities may violate normal
banking instincts and principles. The absence of: subsector or regional lending
targets; graduated interest rates and spreads based on subloan size; and such other
conditions helped NIDC to make a better credit decision based on the subproject itself
(para 4.3).
(c)   implementing DFIs should be allowed to charge market rates of interest where a
competitive lending environment exists. The liberalization of interest rates by NRB
in FY90 allowed NIDC to raise its lending interest rates in line with the perceived
risks underlying the subprojects. This improved NIDC's margin and also screened
out marginal subprojects (para 6.12).
(d)   foreign equity participation with management assistance for DFIs in developing
countries should be encouraged. The presence of an expatriate Director deputed by
a foreign shareholder in the management of NIDC appears to have had a favorable
impact on the operations of NIDC (para 6.12).



NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1535-NEP)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1 Project Identity
Name             Industrial Development Project
Credit No.       Cr. 1535-NEP
RVP Unit         South Asia Region
Country          Nepal
Sector           Industry
2 Project Background
2.1         With an average per capita income of only US$170 (1992), Nepal is one of the
poorest countries in the world. Reflecting the fact that about 90% of Nepal's people live in rural
areas, Nepal's economy is based primarily on traditional rain-fed agriculture, which accounts for
about 56 % of GDP and 80% of employment. Agricultural productivity, however, has been stagnant
resulting from rapid environmental degradation caused by inappropriate policies and strategies,
population pressure combined with excessive grazing and deforestation. Real GDP growth over the
past three decades has been virtually offset by an average population growth (2.1 % in 1992) over
this period. In a normal rainfall year, Nepal produces barely enough foodgrains to feed its
population. While agricultural growth is important to make impact on widespread low income levels,
it alone will not be sufficient to improve Nepal's prospects for increasing employment and income
and improving the balance of trade. Increases in industrial production and exports are needed to
supplement agricultural incomes.
2.2         Nepal's industrial sector is small (16% of GDP in 1992) and under developed, with
limited prospects for import substitution or exports of most modern industrial products. Industrial
development is constrained by Nepal's limited natural resource base, small domestic demand, lack
of skilled labor, landlocked position, and poor transport systems. Because of these constraints,
Nepal needs to adopt a selective approach to industrial development by encouraging industrial
investment in areas where Nepal has a comparative advantage.
2.3         The Government's approach to development stressed the promotion of private sector
expansion. IDP-I (Cr. 705-NEP) for US$4.05 million was approved in 1977 and was relent to 25
subprojects which contributed to increasing incomes and generating employment and foreign
exchange through expanded production and exports. The first project also initiated the institutional
strengthening of NIDC since it was recognized as the main promoter of private industries in Nepal.
2.4          The second IDA credit line was provided to expand private industrial investment
further and to develop the leather and leather goods subsector as a means to diversify exports and
enhance value added. Moreover, the institutional strengthening of NIDC that began under the first



credit line needed to be carried on in order to turn NIDC into an efficient and viable DFI capable
of financing an improved quality of industrial projects in Nepal.
3 Project Objectives and Description
3.1          Project Objectives: The project was designed to promote private industrial investment
for the economic and social development of Nepal and to assist in generating more foreign exchange
earnings. It also sought to upgrade the quality of leather and encourage efficient domestic processing
of leather and its products. Furthermore, the project planned to continue with the strengthening of
NIDC's institutional capabilities which was initiated under the first IDA line of credit. The
objectives did not include any major reforms for the entire financial sector and were clear and
concise, understood by all, and were in line with IDA strategy for the development of Nepal's
industrial sector.
3.2          Project Description: To achieve the above objectives the project had the following
principal components and costs:
(i)    a credit line to NIDC for onlending to private industrial enterprises to finance local
and foreign costs (including permanent working capital) of sub-projects, and
contribution of US$1.0 million to His Majesty's Goverment (HMG) and the National
Review Board for setting up an Import Export Facility (IEF) to finance the imported
inputs of existing exporters (US$6.5 million);
(ii)   support to HMG for implementing an integrated development program, through
RHDC, LIDC and Bansbari, for the leather/leather goods subsector aimed at
increasing the collection of raw hides and skins, upgrading footwear designs, quality
and production techniques (US$0.55 million);
(iii)  advisory/consultancy services for three studies to promote and improve operations of
the light engineering and tourism sub-sectors and to review and recommend a
package of industrial and export incentives (US$0.2 million); and
(iv)   assistance to NIDC to build on the institutional improvements made under IDA's first
credit line, through provision of consultancies, training, computer hardware and
software, equipment and international audit services (US$0.09 million).
3.3          Total project cost, phased over seven years, were estimated at US$12.0 million and
an IDA credit of SDR 7.5 million (US$7.5 million equivalent at the time of appraisal) was approved
to fund 63 % of costs, while HMG and prospective sub-project sponsors were to contribute 14 % and
23% respectively. NIDC was given the responsibility to relend the credit component of US$6.5
million to private industrial enterprises for the establishment or expansion and modernization of
enterprises in manufacturing, agrobased industries, mining and industrial services, as term loans
including permanent working capital. NIDC bore the credit risks associated with the sub-loans,
while the foreign exchange risk was borne by HMG.
3.4          The technical assistance component, which focused on strengthening NIDC and
upgrading the leather subsector, was to be financed through US$ 1.0 million of IDA funding and a
US$ 0.2 million equivalent of local currency financing by HMG. Initially, the TA also included



- 3 -
three studies for the promotion of tourism, light-engineering products and industrial and export
incentives to be implemented by the Ministry of Industry through NIDC for its strengthening
component and through the Leather Industries Coordination Cell (LICC) for the leather subsector
component.
4 Project Design and Organization
4.1          Shortly after the credit was signed HMG requested a change in the project design
including the cancellation of:
(a) IEF of US$1.5 million, to expand exports. The IDA contribution of US$1.0 million,
which was earmarked out of the credit component was, reallocated for financing eligible
NIDC subloans. The industrial and export incentives study was financed by ADB.
(b) The tourism promotion study. This was eventually financed by NRN and the industrial
and export incentives study was financed by ADB. Moreover, the trade policy reforms
undertaken under SAL I & II were considered to be adequate at that time. Only the study
on light engineering subsector was carried out, but it came out with no significant
recommendations for reforms.
4.2          With these changes the project was left with a lending component of US$6.5 million
and two technical assistance components totalling US$1.0 million; one to strengthen the NIDC and
the other to upgrade the leather sector. This pruning of project components actually improved the
clarity and realism of the objectives by focussing on the delivery of credit (lending component) and
the vehicle for delivery (TA to NIDC) without, in any way, reducing the importance of the main
objective of promoting private sector led industrial growth in Nepal. It also reduced the complexity
of the project thereby lowering the demands on the implementation capacity of the borrower.
4.3         In retrospect, it now appears that the absence of micro-management conditionalities
in the project design and organization contributed most to the relatively better performance under this
project. Thus, this project did not: specify any subsector or regional lending targets; stipulate any
graduated refinancing interest rates and spreads based on subloan size; nor put in any other micro-
management targets as were found in many of IDA's investment lending operations designed at that
time.
5 Implementation
5.1         Project Start-up. The Credit became effective on December 20, 1985, twelve months
after Board approval. The delay was mainly in processing the amended Policy and Strategy
Statements of NIDC and getting it approved by its Board, and in signing the subsidiary loan
agreement between HMG and NIDC.
5.2         Implementation of the Subloan Component. The highlights of the subloan component
implementation are as follows:
(i)    A total of 46 subloans were approved by IDA during the seven years of the Credit.
However, six of the approved subloans were either funded by NIDC from other
sources or canceled prior to disbursement and 40 subloans to 39 subprojects (almost



- 4 -
the exact number estimated in the SAR) were finally financed under the credit
component. One subproject repaid the entire subloan ahead of schedule and was later
provided with another subloan for balancing and expansion. Total subproject costs
were N.Rs. 1.8 billion (US$37.5 million) of which IDA subloans financed N.Rs.
228.5 million (US$4.8 million). IDA subloans represented less than 14% of NIDC's
gross loans and advances during 1994.
(ii)   At appraisal, it was expected that 25 % by number and 70 % by amount of subprojects
would be reviewed by IDA. In fact, about 49% by number and 89% by amount of
subprojects were subjected to prior review by IDA because there were more 'A'
category subloans (over the free limit of US$150,000) than anticipated. In terms of
subloans, 20 from each category (A-over the free-limit, and B-under the free-limit)
were financed under the Project. The average size of the A category subloan was
SDR 0.28 million while the average size of the B category subloan was SDR 0.03
million (Annex-2).
(iii)   A relatively riskier portfolio was financed under the Project since 18 out of the 20
sub-loans in each category were for new sub-projects and only two from each
category were for existing subprojects. In regards to location, subprojects were
relatively equally distributed, although six B-category subprojects were located in
Kathmandu and four A-category subprojects were each in Lalitpur and Bara.
(iv)   The subsectoral distribution of the subloans was: textile and jute (36.9%); food and
mixed products (21.2%); construction (11.2%); hotel and resort (10.2%); paper and
printing (8.4%); pharmaceutical and medical products and services (3.6%); and other
manufacturing (8.4%). The loans to the textile are jute sectors generating the highest
level of new job creation (Annex 3).
(v)   A substantial number of projects had time overruns. As of February 1994, three A-
category and six B-category subprojects were still under implementation because of
delays in the import and installation of machineries, delayed power connection,
raising promoter's equity, changes in project design and scope, and for other reasons.
(vi)   The financing of Bansbari and RHCDC for their modernization, upgrading and
financial restructuring, as planned under the leather development program, did not
fully materialize. Bansbari was privatized in December 1992 and neither the planned
equity investment nor any subloan was extended to it. Only the equity investment
and the subloan to RHCDC was made, albeit in amounts smaller than planned.
RHCDC has also been privatized recently.
5.3          Implementation of the TA Components. After the restructuring of the technical
assistance component its implementation proceeded well. Under the leather development program
a leather industry advisor was provided to LICC for three years who acted as the Chief Technical
Advisor (CTA) responsible for the implementation of this subcomponent. The Cobbler Assistance
program was implemented by CIDB with the assistance of an expatriate trainer for shoe uppers and
another expatriate trainer for leather garments. LICC also hired an expatriate consultant from 1991
for three years for its leather goods training center which offered courses on manufacturing leather



goods. The Effluent Control program was not undertaken. Prior to its privatization, Bansbari was
provided 20 man-months of TA for improving leather tanning and finishing, shoe design and shoe
engineering. The pilot abattoir that was planned to be set up by RHCDC never got completed due
to staffing problems and a shortage of funds expected from HMG, although land was acquired near
the river just outside Kathmandu. Finally, the Export Market Promotion program was also
implemented successfully by LICC.
5.4          Technical assistance to NIDC was aimed at institutional capacity building to
complement NIDC's agreement with ICICI to implement an institutional assistance program. It
included a "projects course" program aimed at providing practical tools on project preparation,
evaluation, and implementation which was implemented successfully. The international audit to
determine the financial condition of NIDC was carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co. The
computerization of NIDC's operations was significantly delayed and was not complete at the time
of project closing. NIDC barley completed the procurement of the hardware by the closing date and
is now soliciting funds for consultants to design a proper software to computerize its operations.
5.5          Risk Assessment. The main risk identified in the SAR for the subloan component was
that an adequate number of identified and eligible subprojects may not materialize due to inadequate
entrepreneurial interest, the multiple constraints to industrialization and difficulties in incentives and
their administration. To minimize this risk, the project provided: (a) a conservative subloan amount;
(b) entrepreneurial training courses in preparing and promoting viable industrial projects; (c)
assistance in the development and implementation of appropriate incentives for industry and exports
through training and technical assistance; and (d) incorporation of subsector development components
in key product groups. Whereas all the above were implemented under the Project except (c), it is
difficult to determine the extent to which the above actions reduced the elements of risk and how
NIDC coped with the other elements not mentioned, such as the macro-economic framework, general
credit discipline, legal framework for debt recovery, trade relations with India and others.
5.6          Procurement. There were no particular procurement problems identified in the
supervision reports.
5.7          Disbursement and Project Cost. The estimated and actual disbursements of the project
are given in Table 3A and 3B in Part III. Originally, the Credit was expected to be committed in
four years and disbursed in seven years. However, both commitment and disbursement under the
line of credit were slower than planned and by June 1992, one year after the original Project closing
date, the full TA component and around 95% of the Credit component was committed. Although
the Credit component was fully committed by December 1992, subloan disbursement was very slow
and by the time the Credit was closed, an amount of SDR 6.09 million was disbursed representing
around 93% of the subloan component of SDR 6.55 million. Some subloans, specially those that
were approved in the last quarter of 1992, could not be fully disbursed by the Credit closing date
due to various problems as stated in Para 5.2 (v). These subloans are likely to be financed by NIDC
by recycling Project funds as well as from other sources. The Credit account was closed on May
13, 1994, at which time the undisbursed balance of SDR 0.56 million, representing 7.5% of the total
Credit, was canceled. The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was about US$12.0 million.
The final cost is about US$40 million as shown in Table 4A in Part III; it is higher because the total
cost of the subproject component was about $38 million compared to about $9.3 million at appraisal.
IDA subloans were expected to finance about 70% of total subproject cost at appraisal. Actual
contribution by IDA subloans was only 21 % with the remaining coming from sponsors and other



- 6 -
financiers. The implementation of the technical assistance component proceeded well under the
leather development program but was partially delayed in the case of NIDC (para 5.3).
6 Project Results
6.1          The project's objective of expanding the private sector's role in industrial investment
was largely realized. Over 94% of the credit amount was disbursed and the majority of the
subprojects are in operation with a substantial impact on industrial growth, value added, and
employment. The other key objective of establishing an efficient and financially viable DFI showed
mixed results. The TA to the leather subsector also had a favorable impact on the export sector
(para. 6.10).
6.2          Subloan Component. The subsectoral distribution of the subloans show that a wide
variety of subprojects were financed under the Project (Annex-3). These subloans generated
incremental productive investments of N.Rs. 1.82 billion compared to the SAR estimate of N.Rs.
160 million (Annex-4). While most of the subprojects cater to the domestic market at least five had
either begun exporting or were planning to export their products in the near future. The Project,
therefore, had a positive impact on the industrial investment, growth and exports.
6.3          At the time of PCR preparation (mid-1994), 26 out of the 39 subprojects financed
were in commercial operation, four were under litigation having been seized and/or closed, and the
other nine were under implementation and hence had not even fully drawn-down their respective
subloan (Annex-4). Of the 31 subloans that have been fully disbursed, nine (29%) had paid off their
entire outstanding and another six (19%) were current in their repayments. Twelve subloans (39%)
were in arrears and another four (13%) were under litigation.
6.4          Although over half of the subloans were in arrears, the amounts involved were not
significant (other than those under litigation). This was expected since most of the subprojects were
new and faced unanticipated problems which delayed installment payments from time to time. The
collection data for the forty subloans aggregated for the three years up to FY93 and adjusted for the
fully paid-off subloans, indicated an overall collection ratio of around 75% which matched NIDC's
current collection ratio for the entire portfolio, but was higher than its total collection ratio of 52%.
6.5          Twelve subprojects, representing around 31% of the total, were visited by the PCR
mission during June 1993 and February 1994. Ten subprojects were in good running condition and
only two appeared to have incurred losses from their operations. The other two subprojects were
in the construction stage.
6.6          Employment figures obtained from the 31 subprojects that were in commercial
operation suggest that around 3,600 additional jobs were created due to this Project. This is much
higher than the SAR estimate of 2,300 additional jobs. Moreover, at least another 410 jobs are
expected to be created once the remaining nine subprojects go into commercial production, leading
to a total of about 4,000 jobs created under the Project given the cost per job of N.Rs. 450,000
compared to the appraisal estimate of N.Rs. 200,000 showing that most of the subprojects are capital
intensive. As expected, the A-category subprojects are much more capital intensive with an average
cost per job of N.Rs. 526,000 than the B-category subprojects with average cost per job of N.Rs.
225,000.



- 7 -
6.7          TA Components. The technical assistance provided to the leather subsector fairly
achieved the objectives of improving the quality of leather and leather goods and increasing their
exports through an export promotion component. The leather subsector was in its infancy at the
beginning of the Project with an inefficient system of collection and processing of hides and skin and
outdated tanneries. With the assistance of the international experts provided under the TA the
condition has improved considerably. Both the collection and processing of hides and skins by
RHCDC has improved due to expansion of its collection centers to 300 in 60 districts, most of them
with godown facilities to preserve the collected hides and skins until they are distributed to the
tanneries. This has led to an appreciable increase in the availability of the hides and skins.
6.8          The three technical experts provided to Bansbari for improving the quality of tanning
and finishing, shoe engineering and footwear design led to the production of higher quality leather
which is fetching better prices, as well as better quality shoes.
6.9          Under the Export Market Promotion program, LICC arranged for the participation
of a four member delegation to the Hong Kong leather fair in May 1987 which resulted in
incremental sales of wet-blue, crust and finished leather. Moreover, a 13-member delegation also
visited the Paris leather fair in September 1989, followed by a visit to W. Germany and Pakistan to
see the latest technology employed by the leather industries in those countries.
6.10         The provision of a Leather Industry Advisor to LICC assisted in the upgrading of its
position from a temporary coordination cell at the beginning of the Project to a regular institution
at present under the Department of Cottage and Small Industries of the Ministry of Industry, funded
from the regular budget of HMG. It had established a leather goods training center which offers
one-year course on skills for manufacturing leather goods. The course started with seven students
per year and now has expanded to 12 students with plans to take in 18 students per year from next
year. The course was started by an expatriate consultant in 1991 who left at the end of 1993 and
is now run by a local trainer. Since the demand for the training course is increasing, LICC is
planning to increase the number of trainers and offer two courses every year, one for manufacturing
leather garments and goods and the other for shoe uppers.
6.11         The TA to NIDC had mixed results. While the institution building objective was
partially realized, more remains to be achieved. The "projects course" training was very successful
as was the training of NIDC staff at Manila, Philippines. However, the computerization of NIDC's
operations was seriously delayed and was not completed by Project closing. This has delayed the
implementation of a much needed MIS to record and inform management about the performance of
its portfolio, and the use of advanced evaluation and appraisal techniques. NIDC's financial
performance, which has been improving over the Project period as discussed below, will get a
further boost once the computerization is operational.
6.12         NIDC's Financial Performance - A detailed assessment of NIDC's performance over
the last decade is provided in Annex-l.  The assessment indicates that NIDC has achieved
remarkable stability in its solvency and capital ratios over the last five years while continuously
improving its profitability at the same time. In FY94 NIDC had a net income of over 3% of total
assets after providing 1.5% for building up provisions. The ROE is almost 9% up from 6% during



- 8 -
the last three years. NIDC has a D:E of 2:1, which is well below the 5:1 required under the project;
its' debt service coverage ratio has been over 3:1 during the last three years, well above the required
ratio of 1. 1:1. NIDC's overall collection ratio is low at about 50%, but in recent years current
collections have ranged from 75 - 90%. NIDC has been following an aggressive provisions policy
over the last several years, and accumulated provisions are over 95% of the total arrears. A healthy
interest rate margin -- 6.6% in FY94 --- resulting from availability of low cost funds on one hand
and removal of interest rate controls on the other, has helped NIDC achieve positive cash flow from
operations as well as earn profits. In FY90 all interest rate controls were withdrawn. The absence
of any lending rate restrictions under this Project allowed NIDC to raise its rates in line with the
perceived risks underlying the subprojects, within the new competitive environment. This improved
NIDC's margin and also helped in screening out marginal subprojects. The presence of an expatriate
Director deputed by the foreign shareholder, in the management of NIDC, appears to have had a
favorable impact on the operations of NIDC.
7 Project Sustainability and Impact
7.1          As indicated above, over the last few years NIDC has been increasing its profitability
and generating healthy cash surpluses. An analysis of the overall actual cash flow of NIDC for the
four years ending in July 1993, shows that the annual cash inflow from operations has been, on
average, double the cash outflow from operations (Annex-6). Therefore, only half of NIDC's cash
collection of principal, interest and other income goes towards meeting its debt-service obligations
and paying its operating expenses and short-term liabilities, and the other half is recycled for
disbursement of new loans. If this trend continues, NIDC should be able to recycle more than N. Rs.
230 million (which is equivalent to the IDA lending component) from its cash collections to finance
new subloans during FY95. While NIDC's profitability and cash flow performance is good,
particularly in relation to many of the government owned DFIs elsewhere in South Asia, this
apparent healthy cash flow and profitability performance is largely due to its long-term borrowing
being at below market rates, its low dividend payout and a large interest margin of about 6.6 %. The
Subsidy Dependence Index (SDI) for NIDC shows that it would have to increase its lending rate by
around 37 percent (from 17 % to 23 % p. a.) to compensate for full elimination of subsidies received
during FY94 (Annex 7). If NIDC could improve its collection rates to over 90% it could be
sustainable on a non-subsidized basis, without having to raise its lending rates any further. Looked
at another way, the maximum return that NIDC's debt and equity holders could expect from the
present stock of loans is about 7.6% (Annex 8); this is the rate at which the NPV of the future cash
flow from the current outstanding portfolio -- principal/interest collections, assuming recent collection
rates, net of operating costs of 3% -- equals the equity and debt outstanding. The expected return
7.6%) from the current portfolio is about 40% lower then the market rates on L/T investments (e.g.,
L/T deposits).
7.2          To evaluate the impact of the IDA financed lending comp,onent on NIDC's financial
performance, a model has been developed to determine the breakeven interest rate, on both marginal
and total cost basis, under different collection scenarios. The model takes into account the difference
in the grace periods, the rates of interest, the repayment schedules of the subloans under the Project
and the IDA Credit funds, and income from relending of surplus funds resulting from differences
in repayment terms of subloans and IDA funds. IDA funds under the Project were provided by



- 9 -
HMG to NIDC at the rate of 7% p.a. for a maximum period of 18 years with 5 years grace; NIDC
relent these funds to its sub-borrowers for a maximum period of 15 years with 3 years grace. The
marginal break-even interest rate is the nominal lending rate, at which the interest income from the
subloan equals the marginal cost of borrowing. At the current collection rate of 75 %, the marginal
breakeven rate is around 10-12% (with and without reinvestment of excess funds) which is
substantially lower than the average lending rate of about 17% on IDA subloans. Thus on a
marginal basis the project is generating positive cash flow for NIDC. On a total cost basis
(including operating costs which equal 3 % of subloan outstanding based on past trend) the breakeven
rate at the current collection rate of 75 % comes to around 17 % which is same as the average lending
rate; on this basis NIDC is barely breaking even. However if account is taken of the earnings on
relending of surplus funds (float as a result of subloans having shorter maturity than borrowed funds)
the breakeven rate is around 14 % which would suggest positive cash flow on account of the project
subloans. The above analysis suggests that the Project's objective of contributing towards NIDC
being a sustainable development finance institution for term lending to the private industrial
sector is being achieved, albeit modestly.
7.3          The impact of the technical assistance to the leather subsector appears to be positive
as well. Both Bansbari and RHCDC have been successfully privatized and while Bansbari's
performance and profitability has improved already RHCDC under private management also holds
promise of better performance. In recognition of its positive contribution, LICC has been absorbed
within HMG after completion of the project, and it should continue to contribute towards the
improvement of leather goods. The output and value-added of leather and leather goods have
increased from N.Rs. 326.4 million and 62.8 million in FY89 to N.Rs. 447.8 million and 131.8
million in FY91 respectively; the exports of hides and skins during this period also increased from
N.Rs. 166.1 million to N.Rs. 221.5 million.
8 IDA's Performance
8.1          IDA proceeded with the preparation of IDP-II after the results of the first Credit line
(IDC Cr. 705-NEP) were available. As a result, it included a technical assistance component for
NIDC to address the institutional weaknesses identified in the earlier project.
8.2          IDA  fielded 13 supervision missions during the seven years between project
effectiveness and termination (Table 7B, Part III).  While this helped in monitoring the
implementation closely, the continuity of progress suffered somewhat due to the frequent change of
task managers for this Project.  Consequently, the record of technical assistance component
implementation was sketchy in the mission reports.
9 Borrower Performance
9.1   The Borrower and specially NIDC placed special emphasis on this Project and its objective.
This sense of ownership by the Borrower contributed a lot to the relative success of the Project.
Moreover, the Borrower complied with most of the credit covenants and organizational requirements.
NIDC cooperated very well with IDA in all stages of the Project.



- 10 -
10 Proiect Relationships
10.1         Relationships under the project were generally cordial, and the absence of co-
fmanciers avoided any coordination problems. The relationship between HMG and IDA was
satisfactory and that between IDA and NIDC was cordial throughout the Project period. The
subproject sponsors cooperated fully with the supervision mission during visits to the sites, and had
positive comments on NIDC. Relationships with other agencies were also satisfactory.
11 Consulting Services
11.1        In all, around six consultants were provided to the leather subsector through the LICC
and at least three consulting firms provided services to NIDC. Most of the consultancy months were
effectively utilized and all the agencies were generally pleased with the performance of the
consultants, except in the case of NIDC where the computerization component did not progress
satisfactorily. The leather subsector consultants recorded their experience in the terminal report for
the period June 1989 to February 1990, called "Nepal: Consultancy services to the Leather Industries
Coordination Cell (LICC), April 1990."
12 Project Documentation and Data
12.1         The Staff Appraisal Report provided a useful framework for the review of project
implementation and the project documents held in IDA files on implementation were also helpful.
However, the data on technical assistance performance was incomplete.
12.2         NIDC provided all the data on subprojects as well as on its own financial and
management performance. Due to the delay in computerization of NIDC's operations, the subloan
data was not complete and up-to-date. Thus, although total collections from each subloan are
monitored, the amount is not broken down by principal and interest. The computerization of NIDC's
operations would help NIDC to track subloan performance more accurately though the setting up of
a proper MIS.
13 Lessons from the Proiect
13.1         Whereas it is easier to find the reasons for the failure of a project it is relatively more
difficult to isolate the reasons for its success. A somewhat similar project in Nepal, under which
loans were made to small and cottage industries over almost the same period, failed to sustain the
lending component through the nationalized commercial banks. While it is true that the reasons for
its failure were not all present under this Project, both the projects were implemented under the same
overall financial sector framework. The main difference lay in the project conditionalities and the
way they were perceived by the implementing agencies and the ultimate beneficiaries. The relative
success of this Project provide the following lessons:
(a)   investment lending projects in countries with less developed financial and industrial
sectors should be kept simple and should not have too many components. The highly
focussed objectives and the simple project design made this Project more acceptable
to the Borrower and hence also created a sense of ownership in the Borrower and



- 11 -
NIDC (para 9.1). The objectives were understood by all and the demands on the
implementation capacity of the agencies concerned were not too great (para 4.2).
(b)   credit lines though DFIs for encouraging industrial investments should avoid putting
in micro-management conditionalities as such conditionalities may violate normal
banking instincts and principles. The absence of: subsector or regional lending
targets; graduated interest rates and spreads based on subloan size; and such other
conditions helped NIDC to make a better credit decision based on the subproject itself
(para 4.3).
(c)   implementing DFIs should be allowed to charge market rates of interest where a
competitive lending environment exists. The liberalization of interest rates by NRB
in FY90 allowed NIDC to raise its lending interest rates in line with the perceived
risks underlying the subprojects. This improved NIDC's margin and also screened
out marginal subprojects (para 6.12).
(d)   foreign equity participation with management assistance for DFIs in developing
countries should be encouraged. The presence of an expatriate Director deputed by
a foreign shareholder in the management of NIDC appears to have had a favorable
impact on the operations of NIDC (para 6.12).



- 12 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Overview
The credit 1535-NEP for SDR 7.5 million was IDA's second line of credit to Nepal
Industrial Development Corporation for the Industrial Development Project in Nepal.
The project was delayed in both commitment and disbursement under the line of
credit. The credit account was closed on May 13, 1994, and the undisbursed balance of SDR 0.56
million was cancelled. The objective originally laid out in this project was changed after the project
became effective. The revised project components actually improved the clarity and realism of the
objectives. Thus, it helped in achieving the objectives without any difficulty.
2. Proiect Design
The credit 1535-NEP project was prepared by NIDC and Ministry of Industry with
the assistance from IDA. Later on, HMG/N overviewed the project and decided to cancel some
credit components, such as Import Export Facility, Tourism Promotion Study and the Incentive
study. The project included the following credit related components:
to promote the private sector industry by project financing through NIDC;
to strengthen the NIDC activities specially by providing:
(i)   staffs training on project preparation, evaluation and implementation;
(ii)  international auditing to determine the financial position of NIDC; and
(iii) development of MIS system through computer hardware and software, etc.
to support MHG promote the leather industry through financial and technical
assistance.
3. Achievement
The project's objective of expanding the private sector's role in industrial development
was largely realized as stated in the IDA's Report (PCR). Under this project, over 94% of the credit
amount was disbursed in 39 sub-projects and majority of the sub-projects are in operation. The
significant achievement of this project would naturally have a substantial impact on industrial growth,
investment and employment.  Besides, it also provided a remarkable help to NIDC  in
computerization (Hardware) of NIDC's operation, manpower development and international auditing
of NIDC to determine its financial position. But the concept of importing computer software
developed in highly advanced countries and hiring the foreign consultants to apply such imported
software in local conditions could not be materalized because of some technical difficulties like
customization of software according to NIDC needs, timely availability of consultant services etc.



- 13 -
4. Lending Operation
Altogether 46 sub-loans were approved by IDA. Out of 40 sub-loans, only 39 sub-
projects were finally financed under the credit component to the tune of SDR 6,086,401 against the
total sanctioned amount of SDR 6,555,380. Sub-sectorial distribution of sub-loans reveals that
textile and jute-based industry received the highest proportion of loan. However, the full amount
of credit could not be utilized as nine sub-projects under this credit line were under final
implementation stage at the time when the credit was closed. In terms of sub-loan, 20 from each
category (A and B) were financed under this project. The number of employment created by these
39 sub-projects were estimated at 4,058.
5. Prime Causes of Success
Though TA component has a mixed result, the project as a whole enumerated a
positive result. some of the factors, responsible for the positive results, include:
-     the objective of the project was developed and defined clearly as per the borrower's
point of view;
-     credit line has emphasized to avoid unnecessary conditionalities so as to facilitate the
borrowers to take decision on sub-projects by themselves;
-     the liberalization of interest rates by Nepal Rastra Bank in FY 1990 allowed NIDC
to raise its lending rate with a satisfactory interest margin; and
-     the component, specially NIDC's institutional development program, has been well
supported by computer hardware for setting up a proper MIS.
6. Borrower's Performance
Borrower's performance as a whole is satisfactory in terms of preparing,
implementing and monitoring the project.
Project Relationship
Relationship between IDA and government was satisfactory and that between NIDC
and IDA was cordial and friendly throughout the project period.
7. Conclusion
The 1535-NEP credit was the IDA's second line of credit to NIDC. The credit was
expected to be utilized in five years. However, it was a little delayed and used in seven years.
Some sub-loans and TA components could not be fully utilized by the credit closing date due to
various problems. However, over 94% of the credit amount was disbursed and a majority of the
sub-projects are in operation. So it has helped substantially on the industrial growth, employment



- 14 -
and investment. TA component has shown a mixed result. For the last 5 years, NIDC has been
increasing its profitability and generating a cash surplus also. In general, the objectives of credit
NEP-1535 were met despite of some difficulties and delays other than anticipated.



- 15 -
PART III. STATISTICAL SUMMARY
1. Related IDA Credits
Loan/Credit      Purpose/Comments                       Year of      Status
Approval
Cr. 659-NEP     Carrying out extensive study for exportable  1978    completed
Technical       CSI's and preparation of the CSI-I project.
Assistance
Cr. 705-NEP     Assistance to NIDC to become a stronger    1978      completed
First Industrial   development finance institution, and
Development     provision of foreign exchange for private
Project         sector investment. Project under review
was a follow-on to this project.                                 l
Cr. 1 191-NEP    Employment creation, small-scale industry   1981    completed
Cottage and     promotion, institutional strengthening
Small Industries  through technical and financial assistance.
Project         Project objectives mostly achieved.
Cr. 1696-NEP    Support to finance private sector small and   1986   completed
Second Cottage   cottage industries for the growth of exports,
and Small       output and employment, and institutional
Industries      strengthening through technical assistance.
Project         Project objectives partially achieved.
Follow-on Project
None. HMG has requested for a successor project.



- 16 -
2. Project Timetable
Item              Date Planned    Date Revised         Date Actual
Identification
Preparation                                                   February 1983
Appraisal                                                     Oct./Nov. 1983
Negotiations                                                  Oct./Nov. 1984
Board Approval                                                December 1984
Credit Signature                                              June   1985
Credit Effectiveness                                           December 1985
Project Completion         June 30, 1991     Dec. 31, 1992    Dec. 31, 1992
Credit Closing             Dec. 31, 1991,    Dec. 31, 1993     Dec. 31, 1993
per DCA.
3.A. Cumulative Credit Disbursements (US$ Millions)
FY    FY    FY     FY      FY     FY    FY    FY    FY         FY
85    86    87     88      89     90    91      92     93      94
Appraisal  1.0   1.7   3.1   4.8    6.0    6.9   7.5
Estimate
Actual     0.0   0.0   1.5   3.7    4.7    5.3   6.6    7.2    8.5
Actual as  0%    0%    48%    77%    78%    77%   88%   96%    113%
%of
Estimate
SDR               US$
Original Amount:          7,500,000          7,500,000'
Amount Disbursed:         6,940,695          9,305,910
Amount Canceled:           559,305             560,000
Date of Final Disbursement: May 13, 1994
1  The revised Credit amount in US Dollars equivalent was substantially higher due to depreciation
of the US Dollars against the SDR.



- 17 -
3.B. Disbursements by Category (in '000 SDR equivalents)
Amount       Actual         Disbursed as %
Allocated at   Disbursements  of Original
Category                   Appraisal '    12/31/93     Allocation
I     Equipment and Vehicles                              20.0           16.0   80%
2      TA and Overseas Training                           882.3         811.0   92%
3-A    Subloans through NIDC                            6,555.4       6,086.4   93%
-B    Equity Investrnents                                 42.4           27.3   64%
TOTAL                           7,500.0        6,940.7   93%
4. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs (US$ mnillion)
Item                       Appraisal Estimate                    Actual
Subloan Component                        9.3                                 38.0.
Import/Export Facility                   1.5                                  0.0
Technical Assistance                     1.2                                  2.0
Total                            12.0                                 40.0
B. Proiect Financing (US$ million)
Source                 Appraisal          Estimate       Actual
US$ million            %            US$ million        %
IDA                                   7.5               62.5%            9.3              23%
HMG                                   1.7               14.2%            0.9              2.5%
Sponsors                              2.8               23.3%           29.8             74.5%
Total:                           12.0             100.0%             40.0            100%
As revised later during implementation.



- 18 -
5. Prolect Results
A. Direct Results                  ARpraisal                   Actual
at Closing
1. Number of subprojects financed  40                          39
2. Number of subloans financed      -                          40
3. Permanent Jobs Created          2,300                       4,058
4. Incremental Productive Investment   N.Rs. 160 Million       N.Rs. 1.82 Billion
5. Cost/Job (N.Rs.)                 N.Rs. 200,000              N.Rs. 525,000
6. Output and Export Development'
- Output of Leather and
Leather products               N.Rs. 326.4 million        N.Rs. 447.8 million
(in 1988/89)               (in 1990/91)
- Output of Footwear             N.Rs. 50.0 million         N.Rs. 57.6 million
(in 1988/89)               (in 1990/91)
- Exports of hides & skins       N.Rs. 166.1 million        N.Rs. 221.5 million
I/ Incremental increases cannot be attributed to the project. However, project initiatives did play an
important role in enhancing the input availability technology had HR skills of the leather industry.



- 19 -
6. Status of Covenants
Review of Compliance with Relevant Covenants
As of June 25. 1993
Relevant Covenants:                        Status of Compliance
Development Credit Agreement
DCA      HMG/N to furnish report on progress on     Facility canceled before establishment, by
3.04     import/export facility.                    agreement with IDA.
DCA      HMG/N covenants re operation of            No longer applicable (see above).
3.05 &    import/export facility.
3.06
DCA      HMGIN to maintain records and procedures   LICC monitors leather sector TA. Of SDR
3.07(a)   for monitoring of TA components and       42,350 earmarked for equity investments only
investments at Bansbari and RHCDC.         SDR 27,276 has been drawn down as
Bansbari investment was never approved.
DCA      HMG/N to maintain separate accounts for,   Complied with.
4.01     inter alia, the TA for leather subsector and
light engineering and tourism studies, and
have the accounts audited annually, with a
certified copy of the audit furnished to IDA
within 9 months of end of fiscal year.



- 20 -
PROJECT AGREEMENT                      Status of Covenants
PA       NIDC sub-loans to Bansbari and        RHCDC subloan authorized in January 1989. No
2.05     RHCDC to be exclusively for expansion   HMG/N guarantees were issued. No subloan to
and modemization of facilities and to be   Bansbari was granted as it was privatized.
secured by HMG/N guarantee
satisfactory to IDA
PA       NIDC shall:                           Audits in years prior to AND not carried out in
3.02     (i) have its accounts audited in      accordance with sound auditing principles. This
accordance with sound auditing        covenant has been complied with since FY88.
principles consistently applied; (ii)  FY92/93 audit report has been received.
furnish audited accounts to IDA within 5
months after end of each fiscal year.
(amended to 12 months)
PA       NIDC to maintain debt/equity ratio    Complied with - FY93 debt/equity ratio was 2:1
3.03/    below 5:1 (ratio to be consolidated for
3.07     subsidiaries).
PA       NIDC to maintain debt service coverage   Complied with - FY93 DSCR was 3.7:1
3.08     ratio above 1.1
PA       NIDC to adopt, maintain and apply      Complied with.
3.11     policy and strategy statements
satisfactory to IDA. Approved policies
cover matters including: minimum
financing size, financing limit as % of
borrower's assets, maximum grace
periods and terms, equity investments
and limit on exposure any one borrower
as % of NIDC's capital (See SAR)
PA       Aggregate amount of arrears of principal  Complied with - FY93 arrears of N.Rs. 250 million
3.12     and interest of NIDC's debtors not to  is much less than unimpaired capital and reserves of
exceed NIDC's unimpaired capital and  N.Rs. 525 million.
surplus.



- 21 -
7. Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                 Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal                             37.6
Appraisal through Negotiations                40.9
Negotiations through Board Approval            5.9
Supervision                                   61.6
TOTAL                                         146.0
B. Supervision Missions
Month/Year            No. of    Specialization      Days     Performance    Types of Problem
Persons                      in       Rating 2
Field
October 85              1       FA                    8        1
August 86               1       FA                    11       1
March 87                2       FA                    15      2             M
June 87                 1       FA                    ?       2             M, T
December 87            3        FA                   204      3             M, T
February 88             1       FA                            3             F, DI
September 88            1       FA                            3             F, DI
November 88             1       FA                    16      3             F, DI, M
September 89            1       FA                            3             M, T
April 90                1       FA                            3             M,T
April 91                1       IE                            2             M,
April 92                1       IE                    10      2             T
June 93                 2       FA, TA                154     2             T
Jan.27 - Feb. 22,       2       FA, TA                274      -            Project Completion
,l~~ I                          I                            I              I mission.
I   FA = Financial Analyst, Credit Line; TA = TA programming; IE = Industrial Economist.
2   1 = Problem free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.
F = Financial; M = Management; T = Technical, DI = Development Impact.
4   The mission was for two projects (CSI-II and IDP-II).



- 22 -
ANNEX I
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
An Appraisal of NIDC
1.           Originally established in June 1959, the Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
(NIDC) completed its thirty-fifth year of operation in June 1994, which was a year of growth and
profitability following on a year of consolidation and improvement. Building on the experience
gathered over the years, the Board of NIDC restructured the organization in December 1993 to make
it more effective. The entire functions of the organization are now grouped under eight divisions
(down from nineteen divisions of the past) of which only two divisions, the Tourism and Textile
Division and the Agro and Manufacturing Industries Division, are entrusted with the complete
responsibility for the appraisal, implementation and monitoring of active projects.  The new
organization structure is shown in Attachment 1.  The structural reorganization has been
complemented by a management and personnel reform program which has brought young and
dynamic officers to responsible positions eager and capable of handling greater delegation of
authority. Moreover, an expatriate Director of the rank of General Manager, deputed by DEG,
continued to provide regular advice on, monitoring of and support to NIDC's activities. The
immediate effect of these changes are apparent from the provisional (unaudited) financial statements
of NIDC as of July 1994, which show significant increases in growth and profitability, and the long-
term effects are likely to be further improvements in the financial performance of the organization.
2.           Asset Management:  As already indicated, FY94 was a year of growth in the
operations of NIDC following on a year of consolidation. Total loans outstanding jumped almost
37% over the previous year's level to N.Rs. 1.5 billion, thus surpassing the average growth rate of
around 15% p.a. over the last decade. This phenomenal loan growth was funded by additional
foreign borrowings from IDA, DEG and KfW as well as by further contributions to its equity. Total
assets, therefore, grew more than 25 % over the previous year, once again far exceeding the average
growth rate of around 10% p.a. achieved during the last decade (Table 1).
3.           Portfolio Quality: NIDC follows the Nepal Rastra Bank Directive in respect of
classification and provisioning of its loan portfolio. According to the Directive, NIDC must provide
5 % of all non-performing loans (including rescheduled/restructured loans) that are current to less
than 180 days past due.  Past due loans over 180 days to 360 days are classified as Sub-
standard/Doubtful for which a provision of 25% of the aggregate loan balance is required. If such
loans are secured by collateral then up to 80% of the value of the collateral (at depreciated cost for
land, buildings and machineries) may be deducted from the outstanding loan subject to a minimum
of 10% of aggregate loan balance. Past due loans over 360 days are classified as Bad and a
provision of 100% of the aggregate loan balance (less 80% of the value of securities, subject to a
minimum of 25% of aggregate loan balance) is required. To comply with this Directive, NIDC took
another big loan loss provision of N. Rs. 36 million in FY94 which increased accumulated provisions
to over 16% of total loans outstanding as of July 1994. This additional provision, required to
comply with NRB's fairly standard classification and provisioning policy, increased the level of
accumulated provisions to N.Rs. 239 million in FY94, which covered more than 95% of the
beginning arrears for FY94 (N.Rs. 250 million).  Accumulated provisions have increased



- 23 -
substantially over the Project period from 4% in FY86 to over 16% of the total loans outstanding
in FY94.
4.           Although the arrears and collections up to July 1994 are not available yet, the figures
as of July 1993 (Table 4) show cash collections (of principal and interest) over 75% of current dues
(which had gone up to a high of 90% in FY93) and 52% of total dues (down from over 60% in
FY92), which is relatively high in the South Asia region. Current collection of principal (80% in
FY93) has been higher than that of interest billed (68% in FY93) during the last three years. NIDC
has maintained a current collection ratio of over 70% during the last five years. However, its total
collection ratio has been lagging at around 50% because of the deadwood of bad loans carried in its
books. If these bad loans, which have been adequately provided for, are written off from its books
the total collection ratio would rise to alnost the level of its current collection ratio. Its current
collection ratio has assisted NIDC to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of over 3:1 during the
last three years which is well above the required minimum of 1.1: 1 agreed during negotiations (Table
4).
5.           The higher collection of current principal (96%) and interest (81 %) achieved during
FY92 caused total arrears in principal and interest to drop from around 16%  of total loans
outstanding in FY91 to less than 14% in FY92. However, the fall in current collections during
FY93 raised the total arrears to over 17% of total loans outstanding in FY93, which is still within
acceptable levels. Moreover, as agreed during negotiations the total arrears never exceeded the
amount of unimpaired paid-in capital and reserves of NIDC, and in FY93 the ratio was only around
60%. The Aging of Arrears (Table 5) indicate that NIDC placed special emphasis on the collection
of loans that have been defaulting for over two years the proportion of which has come down to 29 %
of total arrears in FY93 from over 32% in FY92.
6.           Equity & Resources: NIDC continued to maintained its strong financial position by
further infusion of equity funds by its major shareholders. During 1993 and 1994, NRB contributed
additional funds of N.Rs. 10 million and 50 million respectively to increase its stake to N.Rs. 79
million (20% of total equity) as of July 1994. HMG contributed N.Rs. 10 million in 1993 and
another N.Rs. 20 million in 1994 to increase its stake to N.Rs. 266 million (67%). Finally, DEG
also contributed another N.Rs. 30 million in 1994 to increase its stake to N.Rs. 50 million (12%).
This continuous expansion of the equity base increased the total paid-in capital to almost N.Rs. 400
million as of July 1994, which represented almost 33% of its net loans and advances.
7.           FY93 marked the year in which NIDC completely wiped out the losses from its
balance sheet, carried over from FY89 when for the first time it took in to its books bad debt
provisions of N.Rs. 58 million, by the earnings retained from profits of that year. The total equity
base, therefore, increased to N.Rs. 415 million which went up further to N.Rs. 525 million as of
July 1994. This increased the capital ratio to around 32% of total assets in 1994, which is adequate
by most standards. The increased capital was accompanied by an increase in local borrowings of
N.Rs. 75 million in 1993 and a further N.Rs. 12 million in 1994 from NRB. Moreover, foreign
borrowings also increased by N.Rs. 160 million. The borrowings from its shareholders have been
at subsidized rates which helped in bringing down NIDC's average cost of funds to around 5% of
average assets. Because of its relatively large equity base, the debt equity ratio remained well within
the comfortable limits of 2:1 (much below the required 5:1 ratio) in 1994, a level around which
NIDC has been operating over the last decade (Table 1).



- 24 -
8.           Profitability: FY94 was another profitable year for NIDC, the fifth since FY89 when
it took in the large net loss of N.Rs. 57 million to build up its provisions for bad debt expenses. The
provisional (unaudited) FY94 figures show an operating profit of N.Rs. 51 million, which is more
than a two-and-a half times jump over the previous year's figure of N.Rs. 19.2 million (Table 2).
Gross interest income, which includes only the interest that is collected in cash or is due up to 90
days as per NRB's Directive, increased more than 50% in FY94 from that of FY93 to almost 12%
of total assets, well above the average level of 10% maintained over the last decade (Table 3).
Interest margin also jumped to 6.6% of total assets from the average level of around 5%. This
healthy spread of more than 5% of total assets is the result of NIDC's low cost of funds which
allows it to earn a satisfactory spread while still remaining competitive in the market. Together with
a tight control over operating expenses (about 2.6% of total assets) the spread translated into a
satisfactory net income of over 3% of total assets even after providing 1.5% for building up loan loss
provisions. This represents a fully additional percentage point over the 2% return on assets achieved
over the last three years. The corresponding return on equity rose to almost 9% from the level of
around 6% during the last three years, which is satisfactory even without considering the large equity
base of NIDC (Table 2).
9.            Performance under IDP-II: During the period from May 1986 to December 1992,
NIDC obtained refinancing for forty subloans (for thirty-nine subprojects, as one subproject was
given two subloans) under the second IDA Credit. Of these, 31 subloans were fully disbursed while
the other nine subloans were partially disbursed since those sub-projects were under implementation.
Of the 31 subloans that were fully disbursed, nine (29%) had fully repaid their outstanding and six
more (19%) were current in their repayments. Twelve subloans (39%) were in arrears and another
four subloans (13%) were under litigation. Although around 52% of the subloans were in arrears
the amounts involved were not too big in most cases and represented around 6% of the total
disbursement. This was expected in the case of new subprojects which faced unanticipated problems
from time to time and hence defaulted on some installments. However, outstanding principal
affected by arrears is about N.Rs. 89.0 million which represents 64% of the total outstanding
principal (Annex 5). The collection data for the forty subloans aggregated for the last three years,
FY91, FY92, and FY93, and adjusted to reflect the fully paid-off status of the nine subloans (Tables
7 & 8), indicate an overall collection ratio of around 75% which matches with NIDC's current
collection ratio for the entire loan portfolio, but is higher than Total Collection ratio of 52%.
Overall, it appears that the performance of the subloans under the second IDA credit is better than
the performance of NIDC's total portfolio, reflecting the outcome of greater supervision and
monitoring of IDA-financed subloans.
10.          The sustainability of the lending component is closely linked to the sustainability of
NIDC itself. An analysis of the overall actual cash flow of NIDC for the four years ending in July
1993, show that the annual cash inflow from operations has been, on average, double the cash
outflow from operations (Annex-6). Therefore, only half of NIDC's cash collection of principal,
interest and other income goes towards meeting its debt-service obligations and paying its operating
expenses and short-term liabilities, and the other half is recycled for disbursement of new loans. If
this trend continues, NIDC would be able to recycle more than N.Rs. 230 million (which is
equivalent to the IDA lending component) from its cash collections to finance new subloans during
FY95. While NIDC's collections and cash flow performance is creditable, particularly in relation
to many of the government owned DFIs elsewhere in South Asia, this apparent healthy performance
is largely due to its long-term borrowing being at below market rates and its low dividend payout.
The Subsidy Dependence Index (SDI) for NIDC shows that it would have to increase its lending rate



- 25 -
by around 37 percent (from 17% to 23% p.a.) to compensate for full elimination of subsidies
received during FY94 (Annex 7). If NIDC could improve its collection rates to over 90% it could
be sustainable on a non-subsidized basis, without having to raise its lending rates any further.
11.          Whether or not the IDA financed lending component has contributed positively to
NIDC's financial performance depends upon the actual collection performance of the IDA sub-loans.
Using the collection ratio (defined as the percentage of principal and interest due from a subloan that
is collected during a particular year) as an indicator of financial performance, a model has been
developed to determine whether NIDC is making or losing money from the IDA Project , under
different collection scenarios. The model assesses the impact of the IDA financed subloans on NIDC
on both marginal and total cost basis. It takes into account the difference in the grace periods, the
rates of interest, and the repayment schedules of the subloans under the Project and the IDA Credit
funds, for a particular rate of collection of the principal and interest due from the subloans. Thus,
for term-loans, IDA funds under the Project were provided by HMG to NIDC at the rate of 7 % p.a.
for a maximum period of 18 years with 5 years grace. NIDC relent these funds to its sub-borrowers
for a maximum period of 15 years with 3 years grace. The model also takes into account returns on
reinvestment of project funds . The marginal break-even interest rate is the nominal subloan
lending rate, which equals the marginal cost of borrowing. At the current collection rate of 75 %, the
marginal breakeven rate is around 10-12% ( with and without reinvestment of excess funds) which
is substantially lower than the average lending rate of about 17% on IDA subloans. Thus on a
marginal basis NIDC is generating positive cash flow from the project. On a total cost basis (
including operating costs which equal 3 % of subloan outstanding based on past trend) the breakeven
rate at the current collection rate of 75 % comes to around 17% which is same as the average lending
rate ; on this basis NIDC is barely breaking even. However if account is taken of the earnings on
relending of surplus funds ( float as a result of subloans having shorter maturity than borrowed
funds) the breakeven rate is around 14% which would suggest positive cash flow on account of the
project subloans. The above analysis suggests that the Project's objective of making NIDC a
sustainable development finance institution for term lending to the private industrial sector is being
achieved, albeit modestly.
12.          Overall Status: The overall performance of NIDC is generally satisfactory, better
than most government DFIs in South Asia, and the trend is improving. With better performance on
the collections front, NIDC could become a fully sustainable development finance institution and
contribute, more significantly and effectively towards the industrialization of Nepal.
October 19, 1994.



NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
1" | . 1 1.,.~*.  -                                    **S|S...
SOURCE   :NJDC                       . u    . . ....... ........ .................. ......................
.......tWY l@ a E_                    ,       .<        .....              R lN. .  ........      h.....
SOURCE: NIDC



- 27 -
Table 1
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BALANCE SHEET I ENDING JULY 151
(N.Rs Millpn )
PROV .
85/88        86/87       87/88        88/89        89,90        90/91       91/92          92.93          93194
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash.Bank and Bonds                                    49.6         33.8        36.0         88.8         47.8         69.7        73.0          157.1           52.8
Other                                                  55.9         62.2        52.5         40.7          27.4        62.3        81.0           57.8          113.8
Total current asasts        A                         105.4         96.0        88.5        129.3          75.2       132.0        154.0         214.9          166.4
Loans and advances
Loan not Vel due                                     440.2         Slt.9       567.6        599.2        721.5        767.7       821.7          847.5        1,191.7
Loan due                                               42.1         74.2       122.3        138.4        118.7        146.0       215.8          223.4          275.8
Total loan ourslanding                                482.3        588.0      689.9         737.6        838.2        912.7      1.037.5       1.070.9        1,467.5
Less proo,sion                                         19.3         21.9        25.8         58.7          79.4       153.1        178.8         189.9          238.8
Nt lon aend danc.s          a                         483.0        664.1       684.4        679.9         758.8       759.6        858.7         881.2         1,228.7
Eunty & prel. share.nv.                                94.9         96.2       105.2         1142         117.2       119.8        132.1         150.4          170.1
less provision                                          5.0          6.0         8.0         28.5         35.6         38.4         39.4          42.4           45.4
Netin-netnnts               C                          89.9         90.2        99.2         87.7         81.6         93.4        92.7          108.0          124.7
Net fled assts              0                          11.3         13.7        18.1         94.8          95.3        95.4         97.7         102.9          117.7
TOTAL ASSETS
(A+B+C03                                     1689.6        784.0       8f8.2        990.7       1,010.9     1,070.4     1.203.1       1t307.0         t.837.5
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Current lability & prov.    A                          27.9         27.2        32.6         48.8         49.8         50.0         59.3          49.5           67.9
Borrowings
Local I NRt & otlhers)                                102.9         72.5        79.8         89.2          84.2        82.4        197.4         276.8         18.0
Foreign                                               101.8        154.2       183.2        209.8        220.8        260.4                                     421.9
Oebenture & bonds                                     210.0        240.0       290.0        295.0        295.0        295.0        295.0         295.0          295.0
Fised deposlt                                           0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0           0.0           50.0
Others                                                 10.7         27.8        31.0         46.2         48.4         49.2        275.6         271.1           89.7
Total gorro.irgs            a                         425.4        494.3       583.8        840.2        648.4        667.0        769.0         842.9         1.044.6
Equity
Authorized capital                                    500.0        500.0       500.0        500.0       1,000.0      1.000.0     1.000.0        1.000.0       1.000.0
Issued capital                                        200.3        225.3       235.0        295.0        265.0        285.0        285.0         297 9          401.8
Paid op capitad
H.M. .                                                181.3        208.3       206.3        236.3        238.3        238.3        236.3         248.3          288.3
Nepal Fastra 8ank                                       9.0          9.0        19.0          19.0         19.0        19.0         19.0          29.0           79.0
DEG (Grman dev. bank)                                   0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0           0.0        19.5         19.5          19.5           49.5
Public S other                                          3.0          3.1         3.1           3.1          3.1         3.1          3.1           3.1            3.1
Total paid up capitsl                                 193.3        218.4       228.4        258.4        258.4        277.9        277.9         297.9          397.9
General reserve                                        22.7         23.7        23.7          23.7         23.7        25.7         29.7          31.2           34.7
Captial and other reserve                               0.3          0.3         0.3          77.7         77.7        78.6         80.4          85.5           92.4
Reamnet proll2                                          0.0          0.1         0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0          0.0           0.0            0.0
llossl                                                  0.0          0.0        10.61        158.1)       (46.9)       (28.3)      111.7)          0.0            0.0
Tota Equity                 C                         216.3        242.5       251.8        301.7        312.9        353.4        378.3         414.6          525.0
TOTAL LIABILITY
(A+8+C)                                     669.6        764.0       868.2        980.7       1010.9       1.070.4     1.203.2        1,307.0        1 f37.5
Source: NIDC
RATrOS
Current ratio                                           3.8          3.5         2.7           2.6          1.5         2.6          2.6            4.3           2.5
Dcebt equity ratio                                      2.0          2.0         2.3           2.1          2.1         1.9          2.0            2.0            2.0
Acc. Prov/Total Port                                   4.2%         4.1%        4.0%        10.0%        12.0%        /8.4%        18.7%         19.0%          17.4%
Net Port.] Total Assets                               82.6%        95.6%       88.0%        77.4%        83.1%        78.8%        79.1%         75.7%          82.7%
Growth ot rotal Assets                                             14.1%       13.6%         14.1%        2.0%         5.9%        12.4%          8.6%          25.3%
Capital/ Assets                                       32.3%        31.7%       29.0%        30.5%        31.0%        33.0%       31.3%          31.7%          32.1%
Eqortv/Total Portlolio                                39.1%        37.1%       33.0%        39.4%        37.2%        41.9%       39.6%          41.9%          38.8%



- 28 -
Table 2
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
IN.ft Manl
851as       86/67       87/8        8eye9        asiso        90sl1       911S2         92293         93k9
INCOiME
Interest on an                                      47.4         54.1        54.2         71.3       124.3        112.5      136.72        110.92         170.0
Oividand                                            12.7          0.0         1.5          1.3         1.1          1.9         1.t2         3.28           2.0
Prolt on sal ofl InvJ Asoa                           1.5          0.0         2.4          0.3        10.2          0.1                                    20.0
Othser inconm                                         .5          6.7         6.8          8.9         6.3          5.6         8.87        27.99           e.0
TOTAL NCOMI                                         67.1         e0.8        64.9         79.8       141.9        120.3      147.41        142.19         200.0
EXPENDITURE
inerest on botrowlo                                 34.3         38.3        43.2         51.6        53.3         53.5       96.66         66.72          72.5
Fes and comnuaion                                    1.9          1.2         1.3          0.5         0.5          0.6                                     1.5
Ovmdaepenses                                        13.2         12.6        13.3         21.8        22.7         23.8       41.73         39.C9          31.0
Otherexpns.s                                         0.9          0.3         0.1          0.4         0.1          1.1         1.12         1.14           1.5
lad debts                                            0.5          1.2         1.5          2.5         3.3          1.6                                     2.5
Deprecaon                                            0.5          0.5         0.7          0.9         1.0          1.2                                     2.0
Provixion for loan                                   4.2          2.7         3.6         33.1        36.7         17.1        9.04         16.04          36.0
Provision lor lntaroxa                               0.0          0.0         0.0          4.9         4.3          3.4                                     2.0
Provislon fot hnvasint                               1.0          1.0         0.0         20.5         9.1          1.t        2.99         -.I4"           0.0
TOTALEXWDOiTUr8x                                    56.5         57.9        63.7        136.2       131.0        103.9       111.55       112.54         149.0
OPERATINIG POFtTILOS8I                              10.6          2.9         1.2        156.4)       10.9         16.4       38.87         29.65          51.0
Provision wrtn back. Loa                             0.0                                   0.0        16.0          0.8                                    12.0
Provision wriran back. lnt.                          0.0          1.4         0.2          0.0         0.9          9.2                                     3.0
Provision wrkltbn back. bnv.                         0.0                                   0.0         0.0          0.7                                     1.0
Not profit boreauag md Soms                          10.6         4.3         1.4        156.41       27.8         27.1       35.87         29.65          67.0
Provision foi bonus                                  0.0          0.4         0.3          0.4         2.2          2.2         2.87         3.75           5.5
Provisionlor incorne ta                              2.5          2.6         1.6          0.5        14.2          3.5        8.95          0.00          13.0
Naprottatarma                                        6.1          1.3         10.5)      (57.31        11.4        21.4        24.05        25.90          48.4
Stalf welare fund                                    0.3          0.2         0.2          0.2         0.2          0.5         1.50         3.00           2.0
General resxe                                        2.0          1.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          2.0        4.00           1.48          8.0
Oliarreser                         *                 0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.8         1.40         5.18           0.0
Proposad dividand                                    5.8          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0                      4.47          38.4
Profttransferred totMS                               0.0          0.1         0.0          0.0        11.2        1I.1         17.1          11.3           0.0
Loss Transfrerrd to N/A                              0.0          0.0        O.71       157.51        0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0           0.0
Soures: NI1C
lATIO
Operating ProftItm & DO. Inc                       17.5%         5.4%        2.2%       .77.7%        8.7%        14.3%       25.9%         26.0%         2*.7%
N.tprofit aerTt axt&Div lncom                     13.5%         2.4%       40.9%       *76.9$%       $.1%        18.7%       17.4%         22.7%         2i.11%
Ne.roclitattartax/ Euitv RPEo                       3.7%         0.5%       -0.2%       .19.0%        3.6%         6.1%        6.4%          6.2%          9.2%
Neoprofitafter uxt Toti(Aaat IRtOAl                 1.2%         0.2%       .0.1%        .5.8%        1.1%         2.0%        2.0%          2.0%          3.0%
Int. hicome/Ttei Loan OwtIt9ndht                    9.8%         9.2%        7.9%         2.7%       14.6%        12.3%       13.2%         10.4%         11.6%
Int. Expi Total Loan Outtawndtng                    7.1%         6.5%        6.3%         7.0%        6.4%         5.9%        5.5%          6.2%          4.8%
Prowv EXD./ 70iLcen                                 0.9%         0.4%        0.%          7.9%        4.0%         1.2%        1.2%          0.5%          1.5%



- 29 -
Table 3
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
INTERMEDIATION MARGIN
(N. Rs Million)
PROV,
85/86       86/87    87/88   88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93     93/94
Interest received            47.4        54.1     54.2    71.3      124.3    112.5   136.7   110.9       170.0
7.5%     6.6%    7.7%     12.4%    10.8%    12.0%    8.8%      11.5%
Interest paid                34.3        38.3     43.2    51.6      53.3     53.5    56.7    66.7        72.5
5.3%     5.3%    5.6%     5.3%     5.1%     5.0%     5.3%      4.9%
Interest Margin              13.1        15.8     11.0    19.7      71.0    59.0    80.1    44.2         97.5
2.2%     1.3%    2.1%     7.1%     5.7%     7.0%     3.5%      6.6%
Other income                 18.2        6.7      8.3      8.2      7.4      7.7      10.7    31.3       10.0
0.9%     1.0%    0.9%     0.7%     0.7%     0.9%     2.5%      0.7%
Gross margin                 31.3        22.5     19.3    27.9      78.4    66.7    90.7    75.5         107.5
3.1%     2.4%    3.0%     7.8%     6.4%     8.0%     6.0%      7.3%
Operating costs              17.0        15.9     16.9    26.1      27.6    28.3    42.9    40.2        38.5
2.2%     2.1%    2.8%     2.8%     2.7%     3.8%     3.2%      2.6%
Provision expenses(net)      5.2         2.3      3.4      58.5     33.2     11.4    -19.7    5.6        22.0
0.3%     0.4%    6.3%     3.3%     1.1%    -1.7%    0.4%       1.5%
Profit before taxes          9.1         4.3      -1.0    -56.7    17.6    27.0    67.6    29.7         47.0
0.6%     -0.1 %    -6.1%  1.8%     2.6%     5.9%     2.4%      3.2%
Total Assets                 669.6       764.0    868.2   990.7    1,010.9  1,070.4  1,203.1  1,307.0   1,637.5
(End of the year
Average assets                           716.8    816.1   929.5    1,000.8  1,040.7  1,136.8  1.255.0   1,472.2
S. MAc



- 30 -
Tam. 4
EPAL .OugTAtL O3VILOPUUNT CORPORATIN0
s3nt4 ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ .6.   PwIe.ins mitt  71mtT    7etie sno  oss#S                                               2S
32/34        6~~~4135    BEING       wig?7       57135       gems0        6190       sots1         31132         0213
P.4wigai        s4.1             75.3         40.3       43.2        74.2        122.3       138.5       116.7         145.0         144.2
Moro           44.5              53.0.       13.0       66.0         55.2        57.3        75.3        65.3          e0.e          Se.3
TOW           86.7           12.3         103.8      117.1        120.3       1*6.5       213.1       202.0         208.6         200.5
cwumu dom  aug mfe VW
tipd            40.4             46.1         "1         75.1         WS.3        63.?       102.0       107.6         202.3         217.2
h>"t    . 132.1                 30.3         16.2       63.3         78.5        85.3        14.5       125.0         137.7         144.3
TW *72A 74.4                              103.3      14L4         178.7       154.0       1n7.7       322.          340.0         361.4
Pt&-Avg         11.2             23.5          8.2       34.5        51.7         47.7        74.0       182.6         194.S         174.5
h>"t           21.2             21.7         17.3       38.4         30.2        35.2        70.9        75.0         111.3          97.7
Tow          32.4             43.3         23.S       72.3         80*        113.5       144*        237.6         303.4         272.3
p                8.0             50.0         35.7       18.5         0.0          4.5        51.0         0.7           82            0.0
MtSeMt          2.5              6.0         27.5       37.3         27.6        10.1         14.S       47.7          30.5          36.3
TOW          10.5             53.          54.2       54.3         27.5        14.6        65.1        54.4          33.7          39.3
509   *-'
PrvuWd          75.3            4*.3         41.2        74.2       122.3        138.3       118.7       145.0         144.2        15.3
Men            53.0             53.3         38.0       55.2         57.3        76.3        85.3        G0.a          56.3          33.5
To"         128.3            103.5        117.1      123.3        131.5       215.1       202.0       208.          200.5         250.3
calmUm. re  I1     eb alm. I Cw.m6 *_ I
Pt nei        27.7%            45.5%        15.6%      43.7%        11.8%       5s.4%       71.9%       02.3%         96.3%         80.4%
h_Ureint #    5.1%            71.6%        2S.2%       60.e%       49.7%        77.5%       74.5%       50.0%        61.0%         e7.8%
TOW        44.7%             57.7%       24.7S       81.2%       50.3%       73.9%        73.3%       73.7%        S0.1%         75.3%
Cu6inm res" I (mt"   mssm    Toald0WA
prkKvm.       12.3%            32.0%        14.3%      31.5%        23.7%       25.5%       35.8%       52.9%         57.5%         48.3%
hmUfte        26S%             25.8%       20.3%       41.0%       36.5%        44.4%       45.4%       45.1%         65.4%        50.6%
Told      2z.2%             30A%         17.J%       3.63%       32.4%       34.%         41.J%       50.5%        0OA%          52.1%
Tra lee. .mutm6                                                42.3        584.0       68S.S       737.5        338.2       312.1       1.037.5       1.070.S
TOW_tev                                                         215.3   * 242.5         251.5       301.7       312.9       353.1         376.3         414.8
SnimMr*mT6!SqmAy                                               54.2%      U3.3%        75.3%       71.3%       54.0%        58.2%        53.3s         50.4%
INS" _w6!TI.LamaOn                                             24.3%      22.1%        27.5%       2S.2%        24.1%       22.5%        1SJS          23.4%
Ms   . C                        1:1            I.4:1        I.&:1      .08:1        1.5:1       1.9S1       2.B,1      3.04:7        4.13:1        3.73:1
7b: WOC



- 31 -
n3: -: R e. i           
_ '-  R  Sj     .i 
fi  at! j                          I          
I       :  .            
I |                               I -
z z S S S S     |       l    |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
tS%! \f  j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_   ,   '   ^   i   ;   ^   d   s     -   d   :   ,     r   !   |   1 



Table 6
Nepal Industilal Development Corporation
Breakeven Projections
SUBLOAN                                                                   IDA loan
Principai                                            223500               Pfincipal                       223500
operating E.pensas                                       3%               Operatirn E.penses
lerresij ritae                                       16.93%               ktlitest fate                    7.00%
Grace period                                               3              Grace period                          5
Repayment Peniod                                          1S              Repayment                            17
CoRection Ratio                                  75%                      Collection Ra60            _      100%
Non Discounted Cash flow
Subloan                                                                              IDA loan                                                 Not Cash Flow
Yrar               Pirncipal       Principal        Balance      Inteest     Operaling       Net         Principal    Balance       hInlerst        Total
DO.           Crrlctod       Ort.tanding    ColleclId   E.pofSles    Collection      Paid     Outltelrding      Paid           Paid
0                                                 223,500                                    0                      223.500                         0                      0
O                                                 223.500       28.387       6.705        21,582                    223.500        15.645         15.645                  6.037
2                                                 223,500      28,387        6,705        21.682                    223,500        15,645         15,645                 6,037
_______3 _____                                           223.500       28,357_      6.705        21.682                    223.500        15.645         15.645                 6.037
4                 18 625           13.969        7209,531      28387        6 705        35,651                    2233500        15 645         15645                  0,006
18,625          13.969         195.563       26 613       6,286        34,296                    223.500       1'  _           15645                  I8,51
____________ 6 __________  18.625  13,969         181 594      2i9319        5,867        32 941        18.625      204,875        15645          34.270                  1,329
7                 18.625           13.969         167.625      23,064        5.448        31.585        18.625      186,250        14,341         32.966                 -1,381
8                 18 625           13,969         153,656      21,290        5,029        30.230       186625       167.625        13,038         31.663                 -1.432
9                 18,625           13.969         139.688      19.516        4,610        28.875        18.625      149,000        11,734         30.359                  1,484
10                 18,625          13,969         125,719       17.742       4,191        27,520        18,675      130.375        10,430         29,055                 -1.535
11                 18.625          13,969         111.750       15.968       3.772        26,165        18,625      111.750         9.126         27.751                 .1,586
12                 18.625          13,969          97,781       14.194       3 353        24.810        18,625       93,125         7.823         26.448                 .1,638
13                 18,625          13.969          83.813       12.419       2,933         23,455       18.625       74,500         6,519         25.144                 -1,689
14                 18,625          13.969          69.844       10,645       2.514        22,100        18,625       55,875        5.215          23.840                 *1.740
1 5                18.625          13.969          55,875       8.871        2.095        20,744        18,625       37,250         3,911         22,536                 -1,792
16                                                                                                      18.625       18.625         2,608         21.233                 .21.233
17                                                                                                      18.625         0            1.304         19.929                 -19.929
223.500         167.625                      308.709      72.917       403.418       223.500                    179,918        403.418       NCF-        0
Colection relio                       interest fate
40%                                 34.94%
45%                                 30.71%
50%                                 27.31%
55%                                 24.51%
60%                                 22.17%
55%                                 20.17%
70%                                 18.44%
75%                                 16.93%
80%                                 15.60%
85%                                 14.41%
90%                                 13.34%
95%                                 12.37%
100%                                11.47%
* Figrzes we in thouwnds of N. ls.
* *Operw  Expense  re calkuad as 3% of sbteen outristrdang



Figure 1
Nepal hiduila D.vebpmmnt Comporatlan
Breakavmn Ps*ctkou
Cabtion radio       9        raakav n               kead im wdih                b*eee rate wih
irtde  ae              OgaVtino EsnYxs             lokweat~f mid OE
40%                      27.44%                    34.S4%                       30-03%
45%                      24.04%                     30.71%                      26.28%
60%                      21.31%                    27.31%                       23.27%
55%                      16.05%                    24.51%                       20.60%
60%                      17.17%                    22.1S%                       15.73%
65%                      15.55%                    20.17%              .        16.97%
70%                      14.16%                    10.44%                       15.45%
75%                      12.93%                    16.59%                       14.13%
60%                      11.65%                    15.60%                       12.97%
50%                      10.58%                     14.41%                      11.93%
90%                      10.01%                    13.34%                       11.01%
95%                      9.21%                      12.37%                      10.17%
100%                      6.47%                     11.47%                       S.41%
Interest Rate Sensitivity
35%                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J
30%                                                                                                                                               4   w     Gokv   nLcewihOwk&
25%
r   20%
15%
5% 
0%  I
40%             45%              60%              55%             60%              65%              70%              75%              60%             35%              90%              95%             100%
Cdm Rde



Table 7
Nepal industrial Development Corporation
Collection Ratios I Principal
IDA      Subloan                                    Amount Due                                               Amowit collected                                     Cotection Ratio
NAME OF SUB PROJECT           approval    N.mber                                     PRINCIPAL                                                  PRINCIPAL                                            PRINCIPAL.
date      _______                  91            92            93           TOTAL           91    -        92             93            TOTAL           91         92         93       TOTAL
Tewelendjt______                                               8  -10.800        _11.442         2427           46.509  -      3.000         10.809         30.041          43.950          27.8%      94.5%   -123.8%   _94.3%
Nepalju           ___              MyB 6A-0Ot                          1.399         1.904           66           3 989                        1.___904   _ 2.085              3.989      0.0%    1100.0%    303 9%    1100.0%
Arrnapuwa teolrla Ill      Mar578 1A-20Z_                      9.021         905            680          24.74r6        1000o         8.905           12.841          24.74 6    33.3%     100.0%     198.3%    100.0%
Annaputria texrtile                   Jun-92 A-019                            0            0          5,9960         8.960                                       6.960      _     6,960  N___A            NA      77.7%      77.7%
Arnica Pfocessing                     Nov'89 A0400                                                    1,529          1.529             0             0           1.529            1.529        NAN                  .%    100
Jo5eti apinnno  _____go_ Ja9    A0 15                                         00                      618            814    ____                                 6.148     -      i. 14~    -NA        -NA    100.m0 %   -100.0%
Preoutin Teolde IndustriesDec-92 A,021                  _______0 _____                                                                                                      0        N            A         AN
Saba Te.tiles                         Feb-87 8-003                          380          633            1 24         1.137             0             0             478             478       0.0%       0.0%.  385.5%        42.0%
Feod an mc d-pout_____-  ______                                       1.296         174            846           3.896          313       __1,599            780_2.692242                              91%        9.2        6.%
Vcrayak Oiscuit                        ecS   A05                              0            0              0              0             0 ________ 0                  0                0      -NA __        A-        NA  N___!A
Laxnn VpI qari OGoee        -         Apr-817 ADe___                          009191 _______                                                         0252                                      NA         NA      27.5%      27.51%
Indreni Soyabean            ~~~~~Feb-89   A-010                        __ _ _        _ _ _ _ _ _0                 a__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                              NA         NA         NA         NA
Narayani Dairy                        Dec-8B  A-012                           0-           0              0             0              0             0               0                0        NA         NA         NA         NA
Nalural Poducls                       Dec-89 9 009                          65-5          06      ~     600          1.2i55            0             0             600             600       0.0%         NA    100.0%       47.8%
Gandebi Noodles IPoti ltd.            Sep-92 8 019                          641        1.754            155         2,550 -          313         1.599             155           2.067      45.8%      91.2%     100.0%     91.1%
Himalayan Food Copn(lPt)litd          Sep-92 8-023                _________0                                                                    _ _____0                                       NA         NA         NA         NA
.Mani jWae and    War. IplidSep-92    8-025                        _  _____        _____ -______                         0                                                            a____________   ______     NA  NA  _ __NA  NA
construction                   ______                                 4.913         8.827 _       7.902   -     21.642           0    --    1.234_          6.220           7454             0.0%      14.0%     76.7%      34.4%
T__er___i __Came      ____            Sep-86 A-004                        4,913        6.369          1.647         12.929             0             0             259              259      0.0%       0.0%~    115.7%       2.0%
____Wayan _____tta___                 Sep-87 A-008                            0         1.224 -       3.734          4.958 -0                        0           4.958            4.958        NA       0.0%    132.8%      100.0%
Prelab Concrele Ind.                  Dec-88 A-009                          .0         1,234          1.820         3.054              0         i.234           1.003           2,237         NA    100.0%      55.1%      73.2%
Sidhic___We   ____Aug-89  -080                                                              0           70-1     ~     7 01            0             0               00                           NA      NA       0.0%       0.0%
SOS Sricks and tile in ulySe -90 8-013                                        0            0              0             00_                          0               0               0         NA         NA         NA          NA
Hotel and resort               ______7                                3.649         3.649         3.997        1I1. 295        3.649_        3.649          3.997           11.295        1100.0%     100.0%    100.0%    100.0%
HOte Java iternatronal        -        e-6A-003                           3,649        3.649          3.53095&__~ 49                             3,649           3,654          10.952    100.0%      100.0%     10.%      100.0%           .~
Hotel Bue bird                 ___u _ ______ 01_6_o                                        0              0             0              a-            0               0               0 __ NA              NA          NA        NA
_______   _____Ju__90 B     ______ _2__                                         343___        34____ 3 ____                  0             343             343         NA         NA    100.0%     100.0%
Hotel Nirvana (PvtI Ltd.              Sep92  8-017                                                                                                                                                        NA         NA         NA_
_ebani Morantar Resor (PotI Ltd       Sgp-92 8 020                ____NA_NA_NA_N
Everest Panorama Resort IPlli ltd. -   ep92   8-21NA____NA_____NA__                              ___NA__
Hotel Space morrTaIrrlotllt           Sep-92 R- 02 2                                                                                                                                 0NAANAA
Paper and prietlna~~~~~~~~~,,,,  -            3 ~~~ 5.492         1156          506           22.054         3.251           1 4     -    14,175          17.4-40    -    59.2%       0.1%    282.0%       79.1%
Malla Prets IPot) ltd         ____Nov-90 5-014                                0   --       0            302           302             00                             0               0         NA         NA      0.0%        0.0%
United parcprtesNo- 90 B-01 5                                                 0            0            192           192              0     ~       0             192             192         NA         NA    100.0%     100.0%
Everest Paper MiflslPvtl lid          Sep-92  -08,                        5.492        11.536 -- -4.532    _21,560                3,251             1413.983  ____7.248                    59.2%       0.1%    308.5%       80.0%
Pharreaceurlaf  ad  medic.l                                        ______              1__321                                              ___  __      _  ___  __9___9___              _2___
products and serniesc______                                    5          1.0           .2             .94           ,020           726            01             .85            48~79     48.2%      4.%       119          72
Nepal Med (PA)t ltd.                  Sep-92 A-020                            0            0              0             0                                                                      NAANAA
NepWl Pharmraceuticals               May-86 0~001               -         1.385        1,221          1.605         4.211           606          -501            3.104           4.211     43.8%      411.0%    193.4%     100.0%
Simca Labo,ra-ors                     Mar-89 8-004                            00                       26L6O_____0                                                  2               2         N__hA  _    NA     460%       46.0%
_rrrL4L e1gen         ___--           Jun89  807                             200                         28348                       121                           228           -348                 __.05NA    1000%      100.015
Kathmandu Dontal bottle               Jan-90 8-010                                       100,0 o                 ~    200                        -100            -(O               200 ~       N A    100.0%    1D0.0%     100.0%
Otlrer mteeatui,,                                              5       500           556          3.393         4.449           500           400           2.251_          311          100.0%      71.9%      66.3%      70.8%
Premier Electrical                    Jan-86 A-00 2                           0          400        1.9 27 -        2.32-7            0     ~     400              629            .29NA    100.0%                 32.6%     44.2%
Triatrabtipoap             ~~~~~~Ar- 92A-10                                0             0                     0             0             0               0                0        NA         NA         NA         NA
Everest Rubber lnd.                   ApI-92 A-018                            0            0              0              0                                                                             -NA___________  -NA__    NA___
Ilesrala a Auto                      MAay-89 86-005                           0          156        _1.4661          1.622            0              0           1.6i2-2         1.2            A       0.0%    110.6%    100.0%
RHCDC -NIDC loan                     Aug-89 A03L                            500                                       Soto0                                                        500,  100.0%           NA         NA    100.0%
TOTAL                                                         40        ~28.1155      3905           47.6251      114.865        11.439         18.306          61.016          90.751,   4ll.%       46.8%~  128.1%        79.0%



Table 8
Nepal Indusleial Development Corporation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Collection Ratios I Interest 
IDA      SuIL.rar                                Amount due                                            Amount Collected                                    actioon Ratio             Total
NAMAE OF SUB Pn1OJECT       approval   Number                                   INTEREST           ______INTEREST                                                                         INTEREST        C___    ollection
F                        ~~~~~date                          91           92           93          TOTAL           91       ,j                93            TOTAL          91        92         93      TOTAL  Ratia
Tea  end juils,                                             7    8508           530         20,497        29.535        7.223          0  __       20.319          27.542        84.9%       0.0%     99.1%  --83.3%    89.41%
Nepal jin                          May-86 A-001                       1,284 _____597                          laBi81         395                         1.486          1,881    30.8%        NA    248.9%    100.0%   100.00%
Aenapuena le tLk. MIlM~7A07688                                                                   .0           040          888           -        ~        9           10-4 3 0   1000%       NA.    100.0%;   100%   100.00%~
Amvapurna 16.1de                    Jun-92 A.019                         0 ___0                 3.601         3.601      ~     0             0     _    2.534           2.534       NA        NA  __ 70.4%       70.4%    7.8
A  Prc oc.o-.n8   __            Nov.89 A 014                          0       __0983                         993            0            09383                                   NA        N       0.%       100       0.0
Joyatispimi                         Jan-90 A-015                         001L008                            11.008    _____                          jj1,00           11.008    _NA.         NA  .j0.09%l00.0%!100.00%
Pragf!i,Tan.te ndUStrres           Dec-92 A 021                                                                   0              -_________                                 0       NA         NA        NA        NA         NA
Saba Teoldes                        Feb.87 8.003                       396          530 -         706         1.632            0             0A           708            706      0.0%       0 0%    100.0%      43.3%    42.76%
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
TFo-d..;dmmnde- -ot                                               10.310       7.280        1 .42         28.912_    5.381-           1..00.        4.701     ~    11,582:   5-2.0%   2-0.7%   4-2.6%   4-0.4%  -  38%
V.ayoak %Lcuit     _ _____Dec6-8  AOO0S                  -           2.874        3.9            .357        12.1 23                             ...0 ...      ___          0     0.0%       0.0%      0 0%       0.0%     0.00%
LaorniVanasppatrGhee                Api-87 A 006                     6.665        3.368         3,971        14.004        4.761         1.500          3.971          10.232    71 4%i    44.5%    100.0%;    73.1%i   72.77%
Indleni Soa  nFeb.89   A  010                                                            __ _ __ _      __ _ _     0                                                           ______A_A_NA._NA_N
hafavari DwiayDec-BS  A-OIl                                   272            0         1.034         1.306          101             0             61             162    37.1%         NA       5i.9%    12.4%    12 40%
Natutal Products                   Dc860070  _                                                    202770                                                  279            286   100.0%         NA      96.2%      98.3%    57.09%
_Gand.ku Noodles !Poll ltd          SO.j P  92  8019                   49             0390                 - 882 .           492 ______                   390             882   10.%           NA    100 0%    100.0%    85.93%
Ibmalavan Food Conruany!Poil I      Sep 92 8.0233                                                                 0 ____NA____NA____NA____NA______                                                                             iA__
Mani Wa. and Wan (Pogilfd          Sep-92 8-2                  ______   ______                                                                                              0       NA___    _____  ___________  NA___  NA  NA  NA,
0
611    ----..-                                       5     3.062        2,166        5.160         10.387__ 1.787                 0_5 _      1.834_         4,141~.        58.4%i    24 _% 5.6%L    39.9%    36.20%
itinne, Content -  -    ~ Se- 8-6 A-0-04               - 1,781    -   1,4,4-3         ..2            4250                        421             561            982      0.0%      29 2%     54 9%     23.1%      7.23%
HI.Vratoor Iitt                    Sep-87 A-008                          0          522           929   _     1.451        1,244             0            207           1.451       NA       0.0%     22.3%    100.0%   100.00%
Ptetob Camntet Ind.                Dec-86 A-009                      1.046           0O         1.066         2,112          522             0          1,066           1.568    49 9%        NA    100.0%       75.2%    74 04%
Stdhico tde                        A.g 89 6 008                        235         201           682          .11             21 ___  99                    0            120      6.9%      49.3%      0.0%      10.7%     6.60%
SOB Bricks and ide iildosrty       Sep-90 8 013                          0                      1,467         1.462            0             0              0              0        NA        NA       0.0%       0.0%     0.00%
Hotel attd tasoe                                            7     1.990          0           750         2-.-740        1.939                        802           2.740         97.4%        NdA    106.9%    100.0%   100.00%
Hotel Jaya iue-nattonal            Se-8   -003                       1500                         63          2.2           .3                            6819          2.627    974          NA    108.2%    100.0%   100.00%
Hlotel Blueobed                    Aug-S0A-016                           0            0  _     _   0              0            0             0      ~       0               0       NA        NA         NA        NA         NA
H-1roy. H.ight Rt.ort   _           Jun-90  8-012             _____0                              113           113 _____0113                                             113      NA         NA    100.0%    100.0%. 100.00%
Hotel Nirnana (Put) Ltd.           Se -92 8 017                _____    ____                                      0                                                         0       NA        NA         NA        NA         NA_______    ________
KalI.ani Mountain Report (Nirl Ltd  S 5o-92 8-020                           ____                                  0  ____NA_ __NA___ _NA____NA____NA_
Everest Panoframa Resort IPull It   Sep-92 8-021                                         0____________                                                                     0        NA        NA         NA        N
Hotel Space rno.ntain(pnt led  -   Sep-92 8-022                                                                                   ______NA_                                                    NA__NA___NA
P.o., and erintitn                                          3     4.196          0        _2.496          8.892        4.198           0           2.49a           8.692        100.0%        NA    100.0%    100.0%    83.95%
MaSa Ptess lPv`l ltd               Nv9B040                                            0           421          421             0             0            421            421        NA        NA    100.0%    100.0%    58.23%.
United gtaphoc printr              Nov-,90 9-015                         0            0            62           62             0             0             62             62        NA        NA    100.0%    100.0%   100.00%
Everest Paper MdrstPnt l ttl       Sep.92 9oI-019                   4,19              0         2,013        6,208    ~4.198-               0           2.013          6.209   100.0%         NA,   100.0%    100.0%    84.47%
Phsarntacasrlical and
udica pvod.cts a.d services                                8-     743           195          386          1,2           672           142           610            1.324       77.0%      728%      168.0%    100.0%      97.78%
Nepal Med lPvtt lid.               Sep_92_A_ 020               ______                                                             __________                                  A_NA_N_NA_W
N.p.IPh ....... eatp               May-s8 8.001              -         617          14i2            0    ~     759           461 _        142               0            603    74.7%    100.0%          NA     79.4%    96.86%
Sinia Laboitaltuis                 Ma___ 89_8_004 ________________NA__NA_NA_NA_ 4__9_1
l-lintalooyeen            ~~~~~Jun-89 8 007          -        126            0           396          512  - -II                    0 -383                      494 -88.1%           NA      99.2%     96.5%    97.91%
Kaih.rand. Dentl alrome    -        Jan-90  6-010                                    53             0            S3          -0             0              53             53        N4A     0.0%         NA,   1000%   100.00%
Oiliertnan.lac,tutma                                       6      1.588         524         1.154         3.264         1,586         524           612            2.722      1100.0%    100.0%    63.0%       83.4%      76.14%
Preeer.6 Electtol-                Jun-88 A-002              -       1,294          524             0         1.8181       1.294          524,              0           1.818   100.0%    100.0%        NA    100 0%    88.69%
isoki  apAp-9  A0  ~~0                                            0             0             0            0             0              0               0       NA        NA         NA        NA         NA
Evetsat  fAwbberIn .A t9                   A-  8 go.  _____5__   ____55____  __ __ __ _  ______NA____NA____2___0_ _                                                             ___2_ _0___                    _____     _____
Hanalaya Auto                      3a-9a053                                           0          601           834            33            0             801            634   ;O0.0%         NA    100.0%    100.0%   100.00%
RNCOC - NiOC loon                              _____259_259___2_9___                                                                            ___NA_NA   _____%  ______
TOTAL                                                     40,       30.35        108676        41.496      _8265 _       j26S             886s         31,374         69,723    748%   28.2%A    75.8%          88.7%1  74.81%



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
Subproject Intormation
(SOR '000
No of Subprojects              %            Amount Disbursed            % %
A. Above Free Umit                       o  19                     49.00%               5,398          I  88.68%I
D. 8elow Free Umit                           20                    51.00%                889               11.32%
Total               39                    100.00%              6.086              100.00%
( In SonR)
Actual Amount Disbursed
Total number of subloans                                40
Maximum Subloan                                   920,055
Minimum Subloan                                   2,376
Average 'A' category Subloan                                284,089
Average 'B' category Subloan                                33,434
Average Subloan Size                                 156,061
Nor.tFe  Limite was beloaw US$7150,000



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
WAS '000)
Subsectoral Distribution of Subloans
Name of sub project    Number             Total     Percentage   Employment   Percentage
of          disbursement      of                       of total
loans                     Disbursement                employment
.  a,146,898            36.91%       1,447         35.66%
Nepal jute                                5.287       1.33%            513       12.64%
Annapurna textiles                       54,039      13.58%            371        9.14%
Arnica Processing                         9,811       2.47%             94        2.32%
Joyati spinning                          73,502      18.47%            450        11.09%
Progati textile                             795       0.20%            NA
Saba Textiles                             3,464       0.87%             19        0.47%
8>xs  a   84.479        21.23%       409           10.08%
Vinayak Biscuit                          14,657       3.68%             82        2.02%
Laxmi Vanaspati Ghee                     28,518       7.17%            132        3.25%
Indreni Soyabean                         20,781       5.22%             82        2.02%
Narayani Dairy                            7,113       1.79%             18        0.44%
Natural Products                          4.945       1.24%             28        0.69%
Gandeki Noodles (Pvt) ltd.                7,519       1.89%             42         1.03%
Himalayan Food Company                       91       0.02%             25        0.62%
Mani wax and wax                            855       0.21%            NA             NA
5         44,731        11.24%       274           6.75%
Triveni Cement                           12,929       3.25%             30        0.74%
Himalayan Itta                           10,084       2.53%             66         1.63%
Prefab Concrete Ind.                      8,225       2.07%             40        0.99%
Sidhico tile                              4,758       1.20%             32        0.79%
SDB Bricks and tile industry              8.735       2.19%            106        2.61%
7         40,680        10.22%       642           15.82%/o
Hotel Jaya international                 21,896       5.50%            250        6.16%
Hotel Blue bird                          10,719       2.69%            198        4.88%
Himalyan Height Resort                    1,657       0.42%             40        0.99%
Hotel Nirvana (Pvt) Ltd.                  1,262       0.32%             82        2.02%
Kakani Mountain Resort                    2,205       0.55%             35        0.86%
Everest Panorama Resort                     794       0.20%             20        0.49%
Hotel Space mountain                      2,147       0.54%             17        0.42%
,gl'                                      333,539                 8.43%        106           2.61 %
Malla Press (Pvt) ltd                     2,229       0.56%             18        0.44%
United graphic printers                   3,362       0.84%             16        0.39%
Everest Paoer Mills(Pvt) ltd             27,948       7.02%             72         1.77%
,zW                                      5          14,412        3.62%       432            10.65%
Nepal Med jPvt) ltd.                      1.077       0.27%             33        0.81%
Nepal Pharmaceuticals                     2.713       0.68%             30        0.74%
Simca Laboratories                        3,252       0.82%             95        2.34%
Himal oxygen                              6,870       1.73%            254        6.26%
Kathmandu Dental home                       500       0. 13%            20        0.49%
wi.4                                      5         33,273        8.36%        748           18.43%
Premier Electrical                       14,1 29      3.55%             42         1.03%
Trishakti soap                            8.603       2.16%             52         1.28%
Everest Rubber Ind.                       4,956       1.25%             37        0.91%
Himalaya Auto                             3,163       0.79%             81        2.00%
RHCDC - NIDC loan                         2.422       0.61%            536       13.21%
TOTAL                  39         398,012       100.00%      4,058         1100.00%



- 38 -
ANNEX 4
Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
Subloan Information by Category of loan
In million N. Rs)
Name of sub project       Visited by              Project            Total cost    Employment          Average
the mission?             Status                                             cost per job
crea ted
A Category
(Above US$ 150,0001
Nepal jute                                   No                Fully Repaid                 14.01            513              0.027
Premier Electrical                           No                Operational                  20.25             42              0.482
Hotel Jaya intemational                     Yes                Fully Repaid                137.49            250              0.550
Triveni Cement                               No                Operational                  16.00             30              0.533
Vinayak Biscuit                              No               Seized/Closed                  N.A.             82
Laxmi Vanaspati Ghes                         No                Operational                  87.17            132              0.660
Annapuma textiles                           Yes              Fully Repaid/Ops             261.23             371              0.704
Himalayan Itta                               No                Fully Repaid                22.47              66              0.340
Prefab Concrete Ind.                        Yes                Operational                  I2.85             40              0.32t
Indreni Soyabean                             No               Seized/Closed                72.20              82              0.880
C                 Narayani Dairy                               No                   Closed                    95.51              18             5.306
RHCDC - NIDC loan                           Yes                Fully Repaid                  6.18            536             0.012
Arnica Processing                            No                Fully Repaid.               24.12              94             0.257
Joyati spinning                             Yes                Operational                491.60             450              1.092
Hotel Blue bird                             Yes              Implementation               i39.04             198             0.702
Trishakti soap                               No                Operation                   30.81              S2              0.593
Everest Rubber Ind.                         Yes                Operational                  24.59             37              0.665
Nepal Med (Pvt. ltd.                        Yes              Implementation                 26.36             33             0.799
Pragati Textile Industries                   No              Implementation               109.81              na
Sub total    8 Visited                                      1,591.69           3.026             0.526
B Category
(Below uS$1 50.000/
Nepal Pharmaceuticals                       Yes                Fully Repaid                  3.69             30             0.123
Saba Textiles                                No                Legal Action                  2.67             19              0.140
Simca Laboratories                          Yes                Operational                  11.80             95              0.124
Himalaya Auto                                No                Fully Repaid                 11.00             81              0.136
Himal oxygen                                 No                Operational                   6.13            254             0.024
Sidhico tile                                 No                Operational                  11.38             32             0.356
Natural Products                             No            *   Operational                   6.34             28             0.226
Kathmandu Dental home                        No                Fuily Repaid                  2.29             20             0.115
Himalyan Height Resort                       No                Operational                  10.00             40             0.250
SOB Bricks and tile industry                Yes                Operational                 20.76             106             0.196
Malla Press (PvtI ltd                        No                Operational                   7.01             18             0.389
United graphic printers                     Yes                Operational                  10.87             16             0.679
Hotel Nirvana (Pvtl Ltd.                     No              Implementation                30.79              82             0.375
Everest Paper MillslPvt) ltd                 No                Operational                 61.44              72             0.853
Gandeki Noodles lPvt) ltd.                   No                Operational                  13.89             42             0.331
Kakani Mountain Resort                       No              Implementation                 9.67              35     *       0.276
Everest Panorama Resort                      No              Implementation                  5.71             20             0.286
Hotel Space mountain                         No              Implementation                  5.30             17             0.312
Himalayan Food Company                       No              Implementation                  1.70             25             0.068
Mani Wax and Wax IpvtUltd                    No              ImDlementation                                   na
Sub total          4 Visited                                  232.43           1.032             0.225
TOTAL                                         12 Visited                                 1,824.12          4.058             0.450



- 39 -
ANNEX 5
Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
Cumulative Collection performance of Subloans
IDA            NAME oF SUs PAJECr                              S0b an    To rsi amount   AeCp        Tora Oues   AneWS loss     AIVownr
apprvaln/ Anbe                                                                sbeu as Oa utaanW'   as t Aptd 94    rh.9l    betFwe    to
dote                                                                       at Aprl 93   a at AWf 94              mths oe   24 ,dnds eM
T We end te p                                          6 144.833     1*,004        6.007       3.04U        2.000
May-86           Nepal tutu                                    A-001              5.287            0            0           0              0
Nov-89           Arnica Processeg                              A-014              S.811            0           0            0              0
Jan-90           Joysti sainning                              A-01               73.502            0           0            0              0
utn-92           Annapuns texes                               A-1Oi              54.03|       14.500        5.69        3.66,8         2.000
Dec-92           Praga:i Taxle Indu wies                      A-2O1                 795            0           0            0              0
Feb-87           Saba Textiles                               6t003                3.4eF         50o          J33            C              O
Faoiad nisdprxda    t                                   94 480        43.0S2       8.105        2.21i        5J88
Dec-86           Vinavak Biscuit                              A-005              14,657
Apr-87           Laxnh Vanaspad Ghs.                          A400t              385.51       32.840       4.084            0          *.084
Feb-89           Indreni Soyabeen                             A 010              20.781            0           0            0              0
Dec-8e           NarmvanrDaOrv                                 A-012              7.113        5.061   -   2.431        1,215          1.216
Dec-tI           Natural Products                             8300                4.945        3.523        1,174         587            5
Soe-92           Cxnd&ki Noodlee (ut  td.                     SO19                7.519        1.867         417          417              0
SeP-92           Himalayn Feed C_     diPwdL .8-023                                  *1            0           0            0              a
Se-92        =  Mani We. and Wee b u ltd                      S25                   856            0           0                           0 C
_   tonserwer                                          6 44,731       12.1         3.724        2.621       1.104
Sep-so           Trmeni Cement                                A-004              12.929        9.218           0            0              0
Sep-87           HimebVan Inx                                  A-008             10.084            0           0            0              0
Dec-88           Prefab Concrete Ind.                          A409               8.225        1.630 I        1           81              0
Aug-89           SidhCa tl                                     tl00S              4.758        3.317        1,806         402          1.104
Sep-90           SD8 Bnctks and fte indunbv                   613                 8.738      7.9ZJI   1....L      1...400~
He nand aert                                           7 40,60       21.448       172          172         a
Sep-86           Hotel JVe internationaf                      A.003              21.888                        0            0              0
Aug-90           Hotel 8is bird                                A416              10.718       11,200            0           0              0
Jun-90           Hitnstaln Height Reon                        8-412               1.657          95t          172         172              0
Sep-92           Hotel Nirvana IPut Ltd.                      I417                1,262        3.068           0            0              0
Sep-92           Kakeni Mounanh Flont (Putt Ltd.              920                 7.205        2.185            0           0              0
SO92             Everest Fsnoran RFeown Ptd htd.               8421                 794        1,770            0           0              0
Seo-92           Hotnl Soece mountaipttn ltd                  S422                2.U1       2. 251          . CCC
PaR OWand p.41mg                                       S 33.828       10.442       3.836        3.936       0
Nov-90           Modl FrrestPvt hd                            t414                2.229        1.927            0           0              0
Nov-90           United grephic orint                          1, 8.015           3362             0           0            0              0
See-92           Everest Paper MixtPYt) Itd                   8l018              2740 Ut      .     S,5S!   33          3,936 _C
ph&wwovDcA46 _wdkti$fegmm               ,         22.264      *578        7JU           x23          257
MOd sornasn
Sxo-92           Noedl Med (FPtr hd.                          A-20                8.929            0           0            0              0
May-86           NaP  Phamexcutlcols                          3S001               2.713            0            0           0              0
Mar19            Since Labotatorime                            8.004              3,252        2.387         786          62;            2S7
Jun-89           Himrl oxygen                                 BS007               6.870        3.218           0            0              0
Jan.90           Kathmandu Dental home                        S410                 500             0                  0     C              C
OthU menuberaow                                       6 33A273        20.3x        2.048        1.145       x00
Jun-8S           Prem   Electncal                             A.002              14,129        5.549        1,05S        1S             900
Apr.92           Trbhakti soap                                A417                8.603       10.4S4           0            0              0
Apr-92           Evrest Rubber Ind.                           A4018               4.956        4.*56         980          390              0
May-SI           Himaleya Auto                                 8-05               3.163            0            0           0              0
Aua-89           RHQC - NIDC loan                              A413L              2.422            0           C            C              C
ITOTAL                                                391 398,012    13.7"u        1 24.778      14.287      10.147
Ase  % of Tot. O Uxbesinew#Pt
Note: Total principsl affected by arrears is NRIt. 89.014. 108 whIch Ia 64 Vo o.totosl auoutading es at Aprdl 94.



- 40 -
ANNEX 6
Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
Cash Flow
Actual                                              Projected
89/91            90191        91/92       92/93        93/94        94/95       95196        96197
Cash inflow from Operations
Collection of Principal              74.0            162.6         194.9      184.0        238.3       275.76      310.76       345.76
Collection of interest               85.9             75.0        111.5       137.0        132.4       154.86       170.36      18S.86
Other income                         15.4              S.1          6.4        32.7          5.0        14.96       15.84        16.32
Total        175.3            242.7        312.8       353.7        375.7        445.6       498.8       547.94
Cash outflow due to operatlons
Debt service:
Principal                             7.7             28.0          12.1       26.4         40.5        42.14       48.54        54.94
Interest                             55.4             52.6          56.5      118.2         90.1       115.06      128.56       142.06
63.1             80.6         68.6       144.6        130.6        157.2       177.1          197
Expenses                             25.0             26.1         31.2        27.2         34.0        34.43       3634         3a.25
ULai  paid                           11.2             11.0         25.0        11.7         20.0        21.27        23.1        24.93
Total         99.3            117.7         124.8      183.5        184.6        212.9        236.5       260.2
Net Operating Cash
Inflow(Outflowl                      76.0            125.0        188.0       170.2        191.1        232.7       260.2        287.8
Non operating caah inflow
Other Coilection                      1.3              3.8          4.3         1.7          2.7         2.97         3.04        3.11
Borrowings                           13.7             45.8         92.9       152.8        150.0       204.92      242.88       280.84
Sale of share                         6.2              0.5           5.9        5.3          4.0          4.5        4.54         4.58
Equity                                0.0             19.5          0.0        20.0        100.0        88.05        108.1      128.15
Sale of fixed asset                   0.3              0.6          0.5        12.9          0.5         6.77         8.04        9.31
Total         21.5             70.2         103.6      192.7        257.2        307.2        368.6       426.0
Non operating cash out flow
Loan Disbursement                   127.5            168.6        267.7       241.2          470       482.28      558.04        633.8
Share investment                      9.2              3.1          18.2       27.3           30         37.3       43.88        50.46
Ftxed asset                           1.6              1.6          2.4        53.1           10        34.23       41.06        47.89
138.3            173.3        288.3       321.6          510       553.81      642.98       732.15
Net non operating
Inflow loutflow)                  (116.81           I103.11      (184.71     I128.91      1252.81      (246.61     (276.41      (306.21
Net Increaseldecrea\e
In cash balance                    (40.81             21.9          3.3        41.3        161.7)       (13.91      f11.2)       (18.41
Actual                                              Projected
89/90            90/91        91/92       92/93        93/94        94/91       95/96        96/97
Opening Cash Balance                88.6              47.8         69.7        73.0        114.3        52.8         38.7        22.5
Net Cash Flow                      (40.8)             21.9          3.3        41.3        (61.71      t13.9\        116.2\      (18.41
Closing Cash Balance                47.8              69.7         73.0       114.3         52.6        38.7         22.5         4.1



- 41 -
ANNEX 7
INDEX OF SUBSIDY DEPENDENCE
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 1993/941
(Million N.Rs.)
Index of subsidy dependence                                        Subsidy Calculations
(see attached for formula)
1. A = Concessional borrowed funds                (547.9+749.6)/2           648.75
(annual average)
2. m = 13% (Assumed market rate based on
deposit rate of 5 year deposits)
3. c = 7.6% (Average actual interest rate
paid on concessional borrowed L/T funds)
4. A(m-c)=                                        (648.75 x (13% - 7.6%) =  35.03
5. E = Equity (annual average)                     (414.6 + 525)/2        =  469.8
6. E*m =                                          469.8 x 13%             =  61.07
7. P = Profit                                                             =  48.4
8. LP = The average annual outstanding loan          (881.2 + 1228.7)/2   =  1054.95
portfolio
9. K = Other subsidies                                                    =  0
10. n = The average annual lending interest                              =  12% p.a.
11. LP*n =                                                               =  126.59
Without taking the reserve requirement into account:
Annual subsidy = S = A(m-c) + [E*m)-P] + K = 35.03 + 61.07 - 48.4 = 47.4
Index of Subsidy Dependence
SDI = S/LP*n = 47.4/126.59 = 37.44%
Finding: Average lending rates of interest would have to be increased by around 37 percent (from
17% to 23% p.a.) to compensate for full elimination of subsidies received by NIDC in FY94.
I/ The SDI is calculated without taking into consideration the impact of compensatory balances
(obligatory savings), thereby reducing the net loan portfolio and increasing the effective on-lending interest
rate. Calculating the SDI for the altered data reflecting loan portfolio minus obligatory savings would have
resulted in a higher SDI.



- 42 -
A.  COMPUTATION OF THE SUBSIDY DEPENDENCE INDEX (SDD
The amount of the annual subsidy received by an DFI is defined as:
S = A (m-c) + [E * m) -P] + K
when; S =  Annual subsidy received by the DFI
A = DFI concessional borrowed funds outstanding (annual average)
m = Interest rate the DFI would have to pay for L/T borrowed funds if access to borrowed
concessional funds were eliminated
c =  Average annual concessional rate of interest actually paid by the DFI on its average
annual concessional borrowed funds outstanding
E =  Average annual equity
P      reported annual profit (adjusted, when necessary, for loan loss provisions, inflation
etc.)'
K    The sum of all other types of annual subsidies received by the DFI (such as partial or
complete coverage of the DFIs operational costs by state.)
The financial ratio that is suggested as a subsidy dependence index (SDI) is:
S
SDI =-
LP*n
LP = Average annual outstanding loan portfolio of the DFI
n   Average on-lending interest rate of the DFI2
'L Without adequate provisions for loan losses, profitability data is likely to be misleading in cases
where arrears constitute a serious problem.
'/ n is calculated simply as interest earned as a percentage of the average annual loan portfolio. This
implies that whenever interest is not accrued on non-performing loans, while no provisions for loan losses
are made, n would be lower compared with the interest earned on performing loans. However, when
interest is accrued on non-performing loans, the SDI denominator is overstated, and consequently the SDI
is understated.



- 43 -
ANNEX 8
Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
Rate of Return from Current Portfolio
(million)
Loan Outstanding           1467.5    1/
Operating Expenses            3.0%
Interest Collection          10.7%   2/
Principal Collection         17.4%   2/
Debt.Equity                1442.5    1/
Year  Loan                    Collection 3/  Operating         Net 4/
Outstanding       Principal  Interest   Expenses Collections          IRR
FY94       1467.5  1/                                                  -1442.5  1/
FY95         1212             255        157         44          368        368
FY96         1001             211        130         36          304        304
FY97          827             174        107         30          251        251
FY98          683             144         88         25          208        208
FY99          564             119         73         20          171        171
FY00          466              98         60         17          142        142
FY01          385              81         50         14          117        117
FY02          318              67         41         12           97         9'
FY03          263              55         34         10           80         80
FY04          217              46         28          8           66         66
FY05          179              38         23          7           54         54
FY06          148              31         19          5           45         45
FY07          122              26         16          4           37         37
FY08          101              21         13          4           31         31
FY09           83              18         11          3           25         25
1384       851         239         1997      7.65% 5/
1/  Provisional FY94 ending balances
2/ Average three year collection rates of interest and principal
as percent of loan outstanding
3/ Expected principal (interest) collections calculated by multiplying
loan outstanding by principal (interest) collection rates of 17.4% (10.7%)
4/ (Principal plus Interest Collection) less Operating
Expenses, which are assumed to be 3% of loan Outstanding
5/ Int. Rate at which NPV of net collection equates aggregate of Equity
and Debt.






- 45 -
ATTACHMENT
HMG's Letter
enclosing PART II






'fl ' 
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
-~~~~C
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
~~H ~i



-48 -
Part II - Project Review From Borrower's Perspective
----------------------------------------------------
1.   Overview
The credit 1535-NEP for SDR 7.5 million was IDA's second
line of credit to Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
for the Industrial Development Project in Nepal.
The  project   was  delayed  in  both   commitment  and
disbursement under the line of credit.The credit account was
closed  on May 13, 1994 and the undisbursed balance of SDR
0.56 million was cancelled. The objective originally laid
out in this project was changed after the project became
effective. The revised project components actually improved
the clarity and realism of the objectives .Thus, it helped
in achieving the objectives without any difficulty.
2.   Project Design
The credit 1535 NSP project was prepared by NIDC and
Ministry of Industry with the assistance from IDA. Later on,
IMG/N overviewed the project  and decided  to cancel some
credit components, such as Import Export Facility , Tourism
Promotion Study   and the Incentive study. The project
included the following credit related components:-
=   To promote the private sector industry by project
financing through NIDC;
-   To strengthen the NIDC activities specially by providing;
(i)  Staffs training on project preparation, evaluation
and implementation;
(ii) International auditing to determine the financial
position of NIDC; and
(iii) Development of MIS system through computer hardware
and software, etc.
-   to support HMG to promote the leather industry through
financial and technical assistance.



- 49 -
3.   Achievement
The project's objective of expanding the private sector's
role in industrial development was largely realised as
stated in the IDA's Report (PCR). Under this project, over
94% of the credi: amount was disbursed in 39 sub-projects
and majority of the sub-projects are  in operation.The
significant achievement of this project would naturally
have a  substantial impact on industrial growth, investment
and employment. Besides, it also provided a remarkable help
to NIDC in computerisation (Hardware) of NIDC's operation,
manpower development and international auditing of NIDC to
determine its financial position. But the concept of
importing computer software developed in highly advanced
countries and hiring the foreign consultants to apply such
imported software in local conditions could not be
materialissed because of some technical difficulties like
customisation of software according to NIDC needs, timely
availability of consultant services etc.
4.   Lending Operation
Altogether 46 sub-loans   were approved by IDA. Out of 40
sub-loans, only 39 sub-projects were finally financed under
the credit component to the tune of SDR 6,086,401 against
the total sanctioned amount of    SDR 6,555,380.    Sub-
sectorial distribution of sub-loans   reveals that textile
and jute-based industry received the highest proportion of
loan. However, the full amount of credit  could not be
utilised as nine sub-projects under this credit line were
under final implementation stage at the time when the
credit was closed.In terms of sub-loan, 20 from each
category (A and 3) were financed  under this project. The
number of employment created by these 39 sub-projects were
estimated at 4,058.
5.   Prime Causes of Success
Though  TA component has a mixed result,  the project as a
whole enumerated a positive result. Some of the factors,
responsible for the positive results, include.



- 50 -
The objecti-ve of the  project was developed and def'ined
clearly as per the borrower 's point of view ;
Credit line  has emphasised  to avoid unnecessary
conditionalities  so as  to  facilitate  the  borrowers
to take decision on sub-projects by themselves;
-    he liberalisation of interest rates by Nepal Rastra
Bank in PY 1990 allowed NIDC to raise its lending rate
w_th a satisfactory interest margin ;
The  component,  specially  NIDC's  institutional
development programme, has been well supported by
computer hardware for setting up2a proper MIS.
6.   Borrower's Performance
Borrower's performance as a whole is satisfactory in terms
of preparing, implementing and monitoring the project.
Projact Relationship
Relationshim between IDA and government was satisfactory and
that between NIDC and IDA was cordial and friendly
throughout the project period.
7.   Ccnclusi on 
The 1535-NEP credit was the IDA's second line of credit to
NDC. The credit was expected to be utilised in five Years.
However, it was little delayed and used in seven years. Some
sub-loans and TA components could not be fully utilised by
the cred-it closing date due to various problems. However,
over 94% of the credit amount was disbursed and majority of
the sub-projects are in operation. So it has helped
substantially on the industrial  growth, employment and
investment. TA component has shown a mixed result. Far the
Last 5 years, NIDC has been increasing its profitability and
generating a cash surplus also. TI general, the objectives
of  credit -15Z5 were met despite of some difficulties and
delays other than anticipated.



- 51 -
Comments on Part I & III
_________________________
Project completion Report (Cr. 1535-NEP) prapared by the iDA is
found balanced and satisfactory.   Basically, we do not have
difference in IDA's finding. IDA financed lending component has
contributed positively to NIDC's performance. On the marginal
basis NIDC is generating positive cash flow from the projects.
Thus, NIDC has managed to recycle its internal cash generation
for the disbursement of new loaa.
Following comments are made on IDA's report:
Cost of the Sub-projects:
NIDC was given the responsibility of financing the credit
component of about 6.5 million SDR to different industrial
enterprises. Concerning IDA's comments that the total cost of
sub-projects    exceeded  the appraisal cost by 400 percent,
basically, we did not find so much differences in the project
costs. As per ou. in6ormation given in Annex-I, the total cost of
sub-projects amounted to NRS 1,758.55 million whereas   the
appraisal cost was estimated  at NES  1569.604 million resulting
the differences of NRS. 188.94 million i.e. the project cost
exceeded the appraisal cost only by 12% approximately.
Implementation delays in most of the projects brought about cost
escalations in local construction materials and imported
equipments thereby increasing   the project  cost . So to meet
cost over-runs, NIDC provided additional-financial assistance to
some of the projects. Out of 39 sub-projects, nine sub-loan
proJects were only partially financed under this credit line as
they were under implementation stage at the time when the credit
was closed. So, the short-falls in financing these nine projects
had to be met through NIDC's own source of fund.
Arreaxs Position
The arrears position of NIDC financed projects as of mid July
1994 are presented in Arnex - II.



- 52 -
Detail of Consultancy
1.   Price Waterhouse
Price Waterhouse, a partnership firm constituted under the
provisions of the Partnership Act 1948 of India was hired by
NIDC for statutory and special audit of accounts of NIDC for
the financial year 1988-89 applying internationally
accepted accounting and auditing standards. The time frame
of the audit team msmnDers was set -or 218 working days.
2.   Bergstrom Associates Inc.
Bergstrom Accociates Inc., a limited liability company
incorporated under the laws of Illinois has agreed to
provide NIDC computer software service and training of NIDC
staff. It was supposed to complete the computerisatiomL
.within 28 weeks. But unfortunately, this package could not
be fully utilised due to some unavoidable circumstances.
Ultimately, the software package was cancelled.
3.   Asia Business Consultants
Manila - based Asia Business Consultants conducted three
training  courses   with a view to developing platform
techniques and conduct a project Course, utilising a
standardized curriculum and local case studies and
materials.
i)    Compe'itive Business Strategy  -  One Week
ii)   Faculty Development Programme  _  Four Weeks
iii)  Faculty Development Programme  -  One Week
4.   MIS Martin Stoller & Associates
_______________________________
NIDC has engaged the service of MIS Martin Stoller and
Associates with a view to examining NfDC's key accounting
policies and practices so as to understand how these confirm
with generally accepted International Accounting Standard,
make recommendations on financial repo=ting and make an
analysis of the implications of these practices upon NIDC's
actual performance. This consultancy service was completed
in a month.












'I                   . I      .|' T,
i. i      t             2        l,
'I iEl r rl v1 > ' -
'T ` -.     I 



