Doumn of
The Wold Bank
FOR OMCIA US ONLY
Rest No. P-3902--NEP
REPORT ADD RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATTON
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 7.5 MILLION
TO THE
IINGDOM OF Ni.PAL
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Noveuber 20, 1984
Tis do_me bes ba ruxieu duRims  and may be usd by recpiemI emly in the  dN..  of
tder fci d dla ft co1law ay    hewwue be discloud io  Wod BDk no,_s   I



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit    =    Nepalese Rupees (Rs)
US$1                  R is 17.30
Rs I                  US$0.0578
Rs 100,000       =    US$5,780
Rs 1,000,000     =    US$57,800
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS
BANSBARI -   Bausbari Leather and Shoe Factory, Ltd.
FITA      -   Foreign Investment and Technology Act
BLI       -   Hetauda Leather Industries
3MG       -   His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICICI     -   Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDA       -   International Development Association
IDP       -   Industrial Development Project
IRA       -   Industrial Enterprises Act
IEF       -   Import/Export Facility
iSC       -   Industrial Services Center
KfW       -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederauftan
LICC      -   Leather Industries Coordination Cell
'i3      -   Ministry of Industry
NsL       -   Nepal Bank Ltd.
NIDC      -   Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
NRB       -   Nepal Rastra Bank
BBB       -   Rastriya Banijya Bank
RRCDC     -   Raw Hide Collection and Development Company
RRAC      -   Royal Nepalese Airlines Compar.y
TPI       -   Tropical Products Institute
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID     -   United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrover:             The Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiaries:        Nepal Industrial Development Corporation (NIDC) and
private industrial enterprises and leather/leather
goods manufacturers and exporters.
Amount:               SDR 7.5 million (US$7.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard
Relendina Terms:      Government would on-lend US$6.5 million to NIDC at
minimum interest rates of 7Z for fixed investment sub-
loans and at IOZ for permanent working capital
sub-loans repayable over 18 years including a grace
period of 5 years; NIDC would on-lend to sub-borrowers
at 12Z and 15% for fixed investment and working capital
sub-loans, respectively. The maturity and grace period
of NIDC loans for fixed investment would not exceed 15
years and 3 years respectively; maturity and grace
period of sub-loans for working capital would not
exceed 7 years and 3 years respectively. During the
first two years of project implementation, the
Government would utilize US$1.0 million of the US$6.5
million to be on-lent to NIDC as its contribution to an
Tmport/Export Facility to be established in the Nepal
Rastra Bank. Foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the Government. US$1.0 million in technical assistance
would be provided to implementing agencies as grants.
Proiect Description:  The Project is part of IDA's continuing efforts in
assisting the Government to promote industries
in Nepal with greater private sector participation.
' =                              Project components are:  (a) a line of credit to
MIDC to finance industrial investment projects;
(b) technical assistance and training to NIDC in
strengthening operational standards and procedures
particularly in project implementation and super-
vision and management information; (c) consultancy
and advisory services to improve formulation and
implementation of industrial and export incentives,
tourism promotion, and efficiency and quality of
leather goods production and to assist in formulating
a development program for the light engineering
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
subsector; and (d) foreign exchange funds to establish
an Import/Export Facility for export oriented enter-
prises. The project does not contain any unusual
risk.
Estimated Cost:                                       USS Million Eouivalent
Foreinn  Local Total
w
A.  Subloan Component            6.5      2.8      9.3
B.  lmportlExport Facility       1.5       -       1.5
C. Technical Assistance          1.0      0.2      1.2
Total                9.0      3.0    12.0
Financinx Plan:                                       US$ Nillion Equivalent
Foreign  Local  Total
A.  Government                   1.5      0.2      1.7
B.  IDA                          7.5       -       7.5
C.  Sponsors                      -       2.8      2.8
9.0      3.0    12.0
Estimated                                    USS Million Eauivalent
Disbursement:         IDA FY      FY85  FY86  FY87  FY8  FY89 FY90  FY91
Annual         1.0   0.7   1.4   1.7   1.2   0.9   0.6
Cumulative     1.0   1.7   3.1   4.8   6.0   6.9   7.5
Staff Aypraisal
Report:             No. 4982-NE? dated November 12, 1984
Map:                  IBRD 18038



IATERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDTI1ON OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
to the Kingdom of Nepal (EHG) in an amount of Special Drawing Rights (SDRs)
7.5 million (US$7.5 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance
an Industrial Development Project. Of the proceeds of the credit, US$6.5
million would be on-lent to the Nepal Indus.: ial Development Corporation
(NIDC) at minimum interest rates of 7% for fixed investment Eub-loans and
at IOZ for permanent working capital sub-loans, repayable over 18 years
including a grace period of 5 years. NIDC would on-lend the proceeds to
eligible industrial enterprises at 12% for fixed investment sub-loans and at
15% for working capital sub-loans. HHG would bear the foreign exchange risk.
E1G would initially utilize US$1.0 million of the NIDC sub-loan component to
establish an Inport/Export Facility for export-oriented enterprises. The
remaining US$1.0 million of the credit proceeds would be utilized for con-
sultancy and training services to improve NIDC's operations and assist HMG in
promoting efficient industrial enterprises focussing on leather and light
engineering subsectors.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report, Nepal:  Recent Developments and
Selected Issues in Trade Promotion (Report No. 4663-NEP), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on October 19, 1983. The principal features and
recent performance of the economy a-e described below. Country data are
shown in Annex I.
3.      Nepal is one of the least-developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimated at US$170 (1983) and health and education
standqrds are below the average for South Asia: life expectancy at birth
is only about 46 years; infant mortality, about 145 per thousand; and adult
literacy, only 19 percent.  The population, estimated to be 15.8 million
(1983), grew at a rate of about 2.6 percent per year between 1970 and 1982.
About 94 percent of the population live in rural areas.
4.      Population density with respect to arable land (356 per sq km) has
reached very high levels, and cultivation has been extended on to marginal
I
1/ Substantially unchanged from Third Highway Project
(Report No. P-3867-NEP), of August 9, 1984.



-2-
lands and forests. Forests have been denuded further to meet the growing
dpmand for fuelwood, on which Nepal depends for over ^-0 percent of its energy
consumption, mostly for household cooking and heating. Because of deforesta-
tion and excessive grazing on the hills and mountains, with high rainfall,
there is accelerated soil erosion leading to silting of rivers, downstream
flooding and loss of agricultural productivity all along.
5.      Agriculture, largely rainfed, still accounts for nearly 60 percent
of Nepal's GDP and 80 percent of merchandise exports, and provides the main
source of livelihood to over 90 percent of the population. Crop production
accounts for about 60 percent of agricultural output, livestock for 30
percent, and forestry for 10 percent.  Paddy is the principal food crop
(planted on about half of the total cropped area), followed by maize, wheat,
millet and barley. Cash crops (oilseeds, jute, sugarcane and tobacco) are
grown on about 10 percent of the cropped area. About 15 percent of total
rural income arises from non-agricultural activities, of which the cottage
industry sub-sector is one of the more important generating employment for
over one million people on a part-time basis.
6.      Apart from agricultural land, Nepal-s only other important
exploitable resources are hydropower and tourist attractions. The exploita-
tion of the vast hydropower resources beyond that required to satisfy the
country's own power demand, however, will depend crucially on Nepal's ability
to enter complex financial, exploitation and export agreements with neighbor-
ing countries. The tourism sector, based primarily on Nepal/s mountain
environment and its rich cultural heritage, has been dynamic, though it
accounts for only about I percent of GDP. Tourism now provides about 20
percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings. About 60 percent of
earnings from tourism are retained in Nepal.
7.      Following centuries of self-imposed isolation, efforts to develop the
economy of Nepal began in the mid-1950s against extremely heavy odds. The
country had virtually no physical infrastructure, an ancient administrative
system, and very limited educational and health services. The resource base
is relatively narrow and its development hindered by the difficult topography
and landlocked positioin. Against this background, Nepal's primary develop-
ment objective for 20 years, between 1955 and 1975, was to build basic
infrastructure and lay the groundwork for future economic growth.  The
country has made good progress in pursuit of that objective. It now has a
basic road network linking many economic centers. Kathmandu and a few other
towns have basic utilities and public transport. Schools have been built for
almost half of the primary school age children and there are a number of
secondary schools and a national university. A rudimentary hospital system,
including rural health posts, has been built. Some progress has also been
made in establishing the institutional framework for agricultural and
industrial development, including extension and research activities, finan-
cial institutions and industrial enterprises. Yet in all these areas, the
country has a long way to go to achieve a level of development comparable
to other developing countries; for example, public and private institutions



-3-.
in Nepal must continue to expand and upgrade essential physical facilities,
acquire the necessary expertise in handling economic and financial affairs,
build up adequate technical and managerial cadres, and establish merit-based
systems of personnel management.
B.      The Fifth Plan (FY76-FY80) marked a shift in development objectives,
with increased emphasis being placed on acceleration of economic growth,
employment creation, and raising the living standards of the population.
These objectives have been reiterated in the Sixth Plan (FY81-FY85).
Moreover, the stated strategy of the Sixth Plan appropriately (a) accords
high priority to developing agriculture, small-scale industries and Nepal's
abundant vater resources; (b) stresses soil conservation and population
control; and (c) emphasizes full utilization of existing infrastructure and
alleviation of absorptive capacity constraints, including human resource
development. The development strategy also calls for increased involvement
of the private sector in agriculture, manufacturing, trade, tourism, con-
struction and transport operations. Investment expenditures, supported by
growing foreign assistance, have increased rapidly over the last two Plans,
from US$146 million (9 percent of GDP) in FY75 to about US$500 million (20
percent of GDP) in 1982/83, and there have been substantial shifts in the
composition of spending away from transport to agriculture, power and social
services. GDP growth, however, has barely kept up with that of population.
9.      Part of the explanation for this stagnation lies in factors beyond
Nepal's control such as the difficult topography and the poor resource base.
But factors within Nepal's control have also contributed. Severe project
implementation problems have been encountered by Government and donors alike
in most sectors of the economy, thereby lowering the rate of growth of
capital formation. In addition, the expected returns on investments which
took place often did not materialize largely because necessary complementary
investments or current spending were lacking, and because of managerial
deficiencies. A good example is the agriculture sector. In the past, insuf-
ficient attention was paid to bringing water down to the farm level and this
was compounded by inadequate support services such as extension and research,
by the lack of timely supplies of improved seed, fertilizer and other inputs
such as credit, by the lack of farm-to-market roads, and by low producer
margins. Future development of irrigation and agriculture would therefore
need to emphasize complementary investments, improvements in agricultural
input supplies and adequate producer margins.
10.     The shortage of funds for current spending needs to be addressed by
further efforts at domestic resource mobilization. In recent years, Nepal's
efforts to mobilize resources have focused on tightening income tax assess-
ment and collection; on discretionary measures largely in the area of
indirect taxes; and on reducing subsidies to public enterprises. While there
has been, as a result, a steady increase in revenues, the tax structure
remains inelastic. Some scope exists for increasing Nepal's tax elasticity
by shifting items on the indirect tax schedules from a specific to an ad



-4-
valorem basis. There also seems to be scope for increasing yields from the
land tax, urban property taxes and income taxes.
11.     Over the past two years, several positive steps have been taken to
strengthen public sector management. These steps have included increases in
the traditionally low civil service salaries, establishment of public service
training facilities, simplification of budgetary procedures accompanied by
stricter enforcement of expenditure accounting, and granting of more autonomy
to public enterprises in matters concerning personnel and pricing policies.
The implementation of these administrative reforms would have to be pursued
by high-level monitoring of important administrative issues such as appoint-
ment of competent staff, job security and decision-making authority.  Also,
public enterprise reform needs to be pursued by measures aimed at reducing
costs and increasing efficiency. In this regard, the Government has taken
initial steps, subjecting public enterprises to increased competition from
the private sector through liberali_ation of licensing in industry, transport
and small-scale hydropower generation. At the same time, the Government has
involved the private sector in the ownership and control of some public
enterprises through the sale of shares to private investors.
12.     Because of slow economic growth, Nepal's balance of payments has been
characterized by widening trade deficits, partly offset by surpluses from
invisibles. The current account deficit (averaging US$100 million annually
during FY80-Fz82) has traditionally been more than matched by inflows of
official grants and concessional loans (averaging US$128 million annually
during FY80-FY82), leading to surpluses in the overall balance of payments in
most years. Nevertheless, foreign exchange reserves had declined from being
equivalent to about one year of imports in the early 1970s to six months in
1982, and four months in mid-1984.
13.     To sustain and further develop its economy, Nepal must mobilize
additional free foreign exchange through export promotion and efficient
import substitution. Improving agricultural production, rural incomes and
food distribution within the country is a major way of doing so, if only to
avoid the need to import and distribute large quantities of foodgrains in the
future. Agricultural development also remains the key to a gradual expansion
of Nepal's traditional merchandise exports. In addition, development of
energy resources is a major means to strengthening the balance of payments
by reducing the need to import fuel and opening up an export potential.
Recently, Nepal has leg.sisted a wide range of fiscal and administrative
incentives for industrial investors and exporters, particularly in the
private sector. The implementation of these incentives in a cost-effective
manner, and the alleviation of the severe transport and transit constraints
facing the country's trade sector, must constitute essential elements of a
trade promotion strategy for Nepal.
14.     Nepal is faced with highly challenging prospects and tasks in
addressing its multiple long-term development problems. While it attempts
to mobilize domestic resources to finance about 40-50 percent of development



-5-
expenditures, external assistance, at concessional terms, will continue to be
a vital factor in financing investment and effecting economic growth. In the
last three years, aid commitments to Nepal have averaged about US$250 million
per year, almost entirely in the form of grants and concessional credits vith
grant elements in excess of 70 percent. Aid disbursements grew from about
US$110 million in FY80 to an estimated US$150 million in FY84. Nearly 70
percent of total aid disbursements have come from members of the Nepal Aid
Group, formed in 1976 and now comprising eight DAC countries and four multi-
lateral agencies.
15.     At the end of FY84, Nepal's official foreign debt outstanding
amounted to about US$350 million. As virtually all loans have been
concessional, debt-service payments, including payments to the IMF, have
rpmained small in relation to exports of goods and services. In FY84, debt-
service payments amounted to about US$18 million, equivalent to 6 percent of
exports of goods and services. Over the medium term, these payments are
projected to remain at less than 10 percent of Nepal's exports of goods and
services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.     Bank Group operations in Nepal began in 1969 with an IDA credit of
US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then, 36
additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to Nepal
to US$547.7 million equivalent, net of cancellations. In view of Nepal's
many development needs, this assistance has been for projects in a wide
variety of sectors. Six of these sectors account for about 90 percent of
IDA credits by original amount: irrigation/agriculture (US$173.0 million for
14 projects); water supply and sewerage (US$46.8 million for 3 projects);
power and energy (US$168.0 million for 4 projects); telecommunications
(US$21.7 million for 3 projects); highways (US$67.0 million for 3 projects);
and rural development (US$19.0 million for 2 projects). The proposed credit
would be the third approved in FY85. No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
IFC has made three investments in Nepal, the first in FY75 (US$3.1 million)
for the expansion of the Soaltee Hotel in Kathmandu, the second in FY82
(DM14.5 million) to Nepal Orind Magnesite Company for the mining and produc-
tion of dead burnt magnesite, and the third approved in FY84, but not yet
signed, to Nepal Metal Company (DM7.8 million), a zinc/lead mining and con-
centrates project.  Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and
IFC operations as of September 30, 1984.
17.     Bank Group lending to Nepal so far has been modest compared to the
country's need for external assistance. The international community has
shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic development and, to date, the
shortage of funds has not been a major bottleneck. The main constraint on
the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited absorptive
capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation and implementation. The



-6-
Bank Group has provided assistance to the Government in project preparation
through two Technical Assistance Credits (Credits 659-NEP and 1379-NEP) and
by acting as Executing Agency for a number of technical assistance projects
financed by UNDP. Furthermore, the Resident Representative in Kathmandu has
had a significant impact in improving project implementation performance. As
a result, the rate of disbursements is improving: during FY82, FY83 and
FY84, US$28.5, US$37.4 and US$26.0 u.illion equivalent, respectively, was
disbursed compared to an annual average disbursement of about US$17 million
during the previous five fiscal years. Project completion reports have been
prepared for six projects: First Telecommunications (Cr. 166-NEP), First
Highways (Cr. 223-NEP), Tourism (Cr. 291-NEP), Birganj Irrigation
(Cr. 373-NEP), Settlement Project (Cr. 505-NEP), and Bhairawa-Lumbini
(Cr. 654-NEP).
18.     The Bank Group's current lending strategy places emphasis on assist-
ing the Government in its efforts to contain the high level of population
growth, address major constraints in the country's development of human
resources and promote agricultural development. Selected infrastructure
investments, mostly in transport, telecommunications and power, will also be
undertaken to alleviate serious development constraints. In population, a
project is being prepared by the Government and there is donor interest to
co-finance various components. For the development of human resources,
projects under preparation include engineering education, vocational and
secondary education projects. For agriculture, the basic objective is to
assist Nepal maintain overall foodgrain self-sufficiency and, where possible,
promote exports of agricultural products and encourage afforestation efforts.
Projects under preparation would extend the assistance provided so far by
building irrigstion infrastructure mainly in the Terai to increase paddy
production and help reduce the food deficits in the Hills. Both would be
accomplished through irrigation and rural development projects which would
emphasize increased food production and through specific Hill food projects.
For industry, IDA assistance would be channeled through the Cottage and Small
Industries projects and the proposed Industrial Development Project. The
major objectives of this assistance would be to promote the Government's
efforts to generate additional foreign exchange and create employment oppor-
tunities both in the rural and urban sectors.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Industrial Structure
19.     About 70% of industrial value-added comes from formal manufacturing
and mainly from public sector enterprises, producing construction materials,
textiles, footwear, processed food and some simple assembly items. The other
30% comes from mainly rural, household-level, cottage and smal'. industries.
Available data indicate that the formal private sector constitutes
approximately 3,600 manufacturing establishments employing over 60,000



-7-
vorkers. About 75% are classified as small-scale establishiaents, employing
on average about 10 workers and fixed assets of about Rs 500,000. Industrial
productivity is low, partly due to the labor intensity of most processes,
coupled with sbortages of raw material, spare parts and technical and
managerial knowhov. These private sector enterprises are predominantly in
agro-processing, furniture manufacturing, printing and brick/tile processing.
The Sixth Plan envisages greater private sector participation and investment
in the development of other industrial products such as pharmaceuticals,
*        concrete blocks, light metal products, and agricultural implements.
Export Patterns
20.     Nepal's merchandise exports in the period FY76 to FY82 grew at an
average of about 32 in nominal terms; the highest exports were achieved in
FY81, when exports totalled Rs 1.6 billion (US$134 million equivalent) which
was an increase of 40% over FY80. However, exports decreased by 7% in FY82
to Rs 1.5 billion, due to market difficulties for most of Nepal's exports as
well as difficulties with input supply.  Exports have remained a small por-
tion of GDP, and declined from 6.8% in FY76 to 4.8% in FY82. Sales to India
still account for the bulk of Nepal's exports. India's share declined from
about 84% in FY75 to about 45X in FY80, but increased to about 66Z in FY82
due to an overall decline in exports to other countries and a 75% increase in
food, live animal, and crude material exports to India.
21.     Although total exports showed a fluctuating and low average growth,
manufactured exports grew at a higher rate of 14% p.a. reaching Rs 282.5
million (US$21.7 million) in FY82. Consequently, the proportion of manufac-
tured exports to total merchandise exports grew from 11 in FY76 to 19Z in
FY82 and was as high as 30% in FY80. Three product groups account for the
bulk of manufactured exports: leather, handicrafts and carpets. These
products were also exported to countries other than India. IDA's Cottage and
Small Industries Project (CSI) is focusing on the development of handicrafts
and carpets, and the proposed Industrial Development Project (IDP) has as one
of its objectives the development of the leather and leather goods subsector
and the promotion of exports.
Industrial Policy
22.     In 1981, HMG adopted a new Industrial Policy which provides for a
greater participation of the private sector in industry including private
e c     foreign investments and joint ventures.  Compared to previous policy
statements, the new Industrial Policy also provides clearer definition of
industry groups and clarifies institutional arrangements for licensing and
registration. To help implement this policy, KMG promulgated two Acts - the
Industrial Enterprises Act (lEA) and the Foreign Investment and Technology
Act (FITA). These Acts provide fiscal and monetary incentives to private
industry. These include: income tax holidays, sales tax and excise duty
exemptions; provisions for repatriation of profits and dividends by foreign
investors; and some simplification of licensing and documentation procedures.



The Industrial Promotion Board, headed by the Minister for.4ndustry and
Commerce, continues to coordinate and monitor the industrial development
policy with the Department of Industries acting as the Board's Secretariat.
The Director General of the Department of Industries coordinates a separate
committee, consisting of high-level officers of various ministries, whose
main function is to design operating rules and procedures and to ensure the
efficient implementation of the services and facilities provided under the
Acts. H1MG has initiated the process of formulating these rules and proce-
dures and has recently announced additional incentives such as duty drawback
and tax rebate on export profits to promote exports. These new schemes could
assist in correcting the anti-export bias present in other measures.
23.     While HMG through the IEA and FITA, has provided for an overall
framework to implement its industrial policy, much more needs to be done
in the development of the rules and procedures to ensure effective
implementation. It is important also to reevaluate policy alternatives in
relation to their impact on HVIG's revenues and resources and on private
sector investments and exports. Given the physical constraints and
undeveloped state of industry in Nepal, the package of incentives needs to be
redefined and focused to effectively promote efficient import-substitution
and exports; under the proposed Project, technical assistance would be
provided to re-examine Nepal's industrial and export-incentives. To comple-
ment the incentive package, the IDP would also provide adequate credit
facilities to industry as well as technical assistance to promote and
improve operations of specific s-,sectors with potential, including light
engineering, tourism and leather goods.
Industrial Finance
24.     Nepal's organized financial sector consists of:  two commercial
banks; two specialized financial institutions, one for agriculture and one
for industry; and a provident fund corporation and an insurance company. The
two commercial banks (Nepal Bank Ltd. and Rastriya Banijya Bank) dominate the
financial sector, accounting for 75X of total assets and virtually all
deposits. Deposits of the commercial banks showed a high growth rate of
about 22% over FY78-FY83, reaching Rs 5.6 billion or 16% of GDP. Over 45%
of deposits have been in maturities of 2 years and longer which provides a
reasonably stable deposit base. Commercial banks have been the major source
of working capital to industry while NIDC has been the primary source of term
credit for fixed investments.
25.     Commercial banks are mandated to finance priority sectors
(agriculture, cottage and village industries, services) to the extent of 7Z
*of their total deposits. While commercial banks are improving their financ-
ing for cottage industry, they are still conservative and reluctant to make
term loans on the basis of project evaluation rather than collateral.
Commercial banks still have limited exposure to and expertise in industrial
lending, particularly for term loans to larger firms. As recommended by IDA,
HMG recently abolished the registration fee on collateral for industrial



-9-
loans by the commercial banks. which had discouraged industrial borrowings.
In line with M117s Industrial Policy of 1982. MIS has agreed to take
appropriate measures to allow joint mortgages and registration of second
mortgages_  Tbis should assist in promoting co-financing schemes between
financial institutions which would help meet NIDC-s local currency
requirements, and encourage commercial banks to lend to industries without
relying on guarantees of ENG, Nepal Rastra Bank (CRB) or NIDC.
26.     Lending rates in Nepal range from 11% to 17% depending on the purpose
of the loans and size of borrowers. These rates have been effective since
June 15, 1983 and reflect an across-the-board increase of IZ from prior
rates. NIDC-s interest rates for term loans to industry are 12Z for fixed
investment and 15X for working capital and these would be applicable under
the Project and are consistent with rates charged by the comercial banks.
Between FY79 to FY83, inflation in Nepal averaged about 1OZ. Current projec-
tions of Nepal-s inflation are in the range of 6Z to 9Z p.a. for 1984 to
1989. Thus, present lending rates are expected to remaic positive in real
terms.
27_     Recent developments in the financial sector include the initiatives
to allow branches of foreign banks, establishment of privately owned commer-
cial bank, studies on export credit and export guarantees.  These moves are
consistent with HMG-s continuing efforts to improve resource mobilization,
foreign trade services, and the overall efficiency of financial institutions.
Past Bank Group Lending to the Sector
28.     The first credit line to NIDC (Cr. 705-NEP) of US$4.0 million was
made in 1978 to finance NIDC sub-loans to private industrial enterprises.
IDA also executed UNDP financed technical assistance projects involving a
policy advisor and an accounting/management information advisor who were
assigned to NIDC for two years each. The Bank Group is supporting a Cottage
and Small Industries (CSI) Project, through a US$6.5 million IDA
Credit (1191-NEP) and a US$2 million UNDP financed, Bank executed technical
assistance component.  The CSI project provides credit to CSIs and related
commercial concerns through the two commercial banks and the Agricultural
Development Bank. It also involves product development and export promotion
services focusing on promising CSI product groups. Training and technical
services to upgrade CSI production skills are also provided. IFC has
assisted a botel project and a magnesite mining project with financial com-
mitments of US$3.1 million and US$5.6 million respectively; an IFC commitment
of US$3.0 million was recently approved for a lead/zinc project; and IFC
currently is considering a pulp/paper project and small iron/steel foundries.
Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
29.     NIDC was established in 1959, under a special Act, to promote and
develop industries in the private sector. The first IDA Credit line to NIDC
was approved on May 3, 1977, became effective on February 17, 1978 and was



-10-
committed fully by March 31, 1982. With the assistance of HUG and IDA, NIDC
has improved its operating capability significantly and continues to take
appropriate actions to further upgrade its performance. Its management in
monitoring operations closely, particularly disbursements and colle .ions.
The current general manager who has been in place since 1981, has initiated
important changes in NIDC-s policies and organization. These include:
diversifying its portfolio by promoting industries other than tourism/hotel
projects and certain agro-based projects; amending NIDC's charter to
strengthen its legal powers against defaulting clients; introducing intensive
case by case follow-up of clients in arrears, and establishing a special cell
for problem projects; and ensuring coordination and assistance from zonal and
district administrators in NIDC-s collection efforts. Also, NIDC recently
has made an arrangement with Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India (ICICI), the strongest development bank in India, in vhich selected
NIDC staff will receive on-the-job training at ICICI in project appraisal,
supervision and accounting systems and ICICI staff will provide on-the-job
training for NIDC staff in Kathmandu. These aspects have been incorporated
in NIDC's Statement of Operational and Financial Policies and its Strategy
Statement for FY85-FY88 which provide satisfactory and appropriate guidelines
for its operations. These Statements and the related institutional upgrading
measures to be financed under the project (para 40 below) were confirmed and
agreed dizdng negotiations, and formal approval by NIDC's Board would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement (DCA)).
30.     NIDC's authorized capital is Ks 250.0 million of which paid-in
capital is Rs 190.0 million accounting for about 36Z of its resources.
NIDC-s shares are ovned by BIG (95%) and NRB (5%). Its Board sf Directors
consists of eight members, two of whom are non-government officials repre-
senting trade and industry. NIDC-s foreiga currency resources have been
provided mainly by KfW and IDA while its local currency resources are com-
posed of its share capital and reserves and loans from and debentures held
by the NRBE Since inception, NIDC has assisted about 800 projects requiring
Rs 585 million of which 85% was in loans aud 15Z in equity investments and
guarantees. Net of sub-loans to about 400 cottage and village industries,
NIDC-s average sub-loan is about US$95,000 equivalent; average fixed cost per
job is about US$5,700 equivalent. Under IDA-s first credit line to NIDC,
subprojects showed an ex-ante financial and economic rates of returns of
above 15% and 17% respectively.
31.     During the last five years, NIDC showed reasonable profits although
it only managed an average of 3.0% return on equity, due to a large equity
base which averaged about 42% of total resources; in FY84 total income and
net income reached Rs 51.4 million and Rs 11.6 million respectively; its
gross spread averaged about 4.5% while its administrative expenses and provi-
sions for bad debts were about 3.0% of total assets and this provides NIDC an
average net profit margin of about 1.0-1.5Z of total assets. Its collection
performance is satisfactory; the level of arrears is increasing but has been
contained to less than 30% of total portfolio; as provided in the draft



-ll-
Project Agreement, except as the Association shall otherwv'ge agree, NIDC
shall maintain, in each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on
July 15, 1984, a ratio of not less than 1.1 to 1 of che sum of its cash
generated from operation and cash repayments of its debtors for loan
principal, to the sum of all debt service requirements of its debts then
incurred and outstanding, calculated on the basis of the actual figures for
the preceeding twelve months (Section 3.08 of the draft Project Agreement
(PA)).  IDA has the right to withhold subloan approvalfauthorization until
*         NIDC shall have taken steps satisfactory to IDA which would ensure the
attainment of such ratio.  NIDC appropriates about two-thirds of its annual
income to provisions for doubtful debts; at the end of FY84, the accumulated
*         provisions were 5% of loan portfolio or 15% of total arrears which are ade-
quate considering NIDC's equity base, low dividend payout, improving
collections, and adequate collateral coverage. The operational and financial
forecasts for NIDC anticipate a growth of about 13% per annum in its level of
business; during the period FY85-FY8S, total approvals, conmitments, and
disbursements are projected at Rs 575 million, Rs 487 million and Rs 340
million respectively. The subloan component of the proposed Credit would
represent about 65Z of NIDC's loan commitments in foreign currency. NIDC's
net income is expected to remain at Rs 3.5 zillion level representing about
1.6Z of equity. Hovever, its debt service cover ratio (DSCR) would be above
1.6 times and its provision for doubtful debts would increase slightly to 7X
of total portfolio which is adequate. Its contractual debt:equity ratio is
projected to reach only 1.8 by FY88 which is low compared to the maximum of
5:1 allowed under the Project Agreement (Section 3.03 of the draft PA).
IDA Stratety
32.     As the figures above (para 19) show the industrial sector in Nepal is
still very small and prospects for growth in industrial output and exports
(paras 20, 21) are constrained mainly by the country's geographic -location,
limited resources including industrial manpower, and a small domestic market.
Our experience in our industrial sector and lending operations shows that
there is scope for industrial development in selected product groups
including leather and leather goods, light engineering, handicrafts, agro-
processing, building materials and some consumer ,roduc=s.  As part of our
strategy we provided HBG with assistance in formulating both the new IEA and
the FITA (para 22).  While these Acts have provided an initia. framework for
HBN's industrial policies we find that they have so far had little impact
in promoting private industrial investments and exports. There is still a
c        strong preference among Nepalese investors for trade, real estate and con-
struction which yield more attractive and rapid results than industrial
projects particularly export projects. Our strategy therefore is three-fold:
-i) to continue to carry out sub-sector studies as a means of identifying
specific opportunities for private investment while at the same timr. review-
ing the efficacy of related legislation in providing adequate incenti-v..s for
private -articipation; (ii) to continue to provide financial resources and
technical &ssistance to NIDC as the main promoter of private industries in



-12-
Nepal; and (iii) to provide financial resources and techbscal assistance to
assist in generating foreign exchange resources.
PART TV - TEE PROJECT
33.     The proposed project was appraised in October/November 1983.  Follow
up discussions were held in March 1984. A timetable of key events relating
to the project and special conditions are given in Annex III. A staff
appraisal report (Report No. 4982-NEP dated November 12, 1984) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C. from October 31 to November 6, 1984. The Nepalese
delegation was led by Mr. Heet Singh Shrestha, Additional Secretary, Ministry
of Finance and NIDC was represented by Mr. R.N. Dhungel, General Manager.
Scope and Obiectives
34.     In accordance with IDA strategy (para 32), the proposed project is
designed to promote private industrial investment and assist in generating
foreign exchange earnings. MIDC, which is the only industrial development
bank in Nepal, would be supported with IDA's financing of eligible sub-
projects and technical assistance to achieve further improvements in NIDC-s
operations. The project would make financing available for an integrated
leather development pr-gram which would help improve efficiency and quality
of output at each processing stage, expand hide and skin collection capacity,
and enhance value added in this important export sub-sector. Under the
project, vork will be initiated to develop investment opportunities in the
light engineering sub-sector, which could be pursued in a subsequent project.
Technical assistance would be provided in implementing EBG's industrial and
export incentive schemes and in strengthening promotion of tourism. In
addition, the project would support existing export industries by providing
funds to establish an Import/Export Facility in the Nepal Rastra Bank (Nfl).
Summary Components and Costs
35.     An IDA Credit of US$7.5 million is pro?osed for an Industrial
Development Project in Nepal with the follo:ving components:
.      a~~~~~.



-13-
I.  Cre0it Components                           CUSS 000)
A.  NIDC Subloans:                            6.500
Sub-Total                                6.500. L
II. Technical Assistance
A.  Industrial Incentive Study                  100
B.  Light Engineering Study                      50
C.  Tourism Promotion Study                      50
D.  TA Program for Leather Sector               550
E.  NIDC Technical Assistance                    85
F.  Contingencies                               165
Sub-Total                                1.000
Total Credit                          US$7.500
The total project cost is estimated at US$12.0 million equivalent broken down
into US$7.5 million from IDA (68Z), US$2.8 million from prospective sub-
project sponsors (272), and US$1.7 million from HW1/3 (5Z). Out of IDA-s
US$7.5 million, US$6.5 million will be provided for sub-loans to industry and
for the import/export facility for exporters, and US$1.0 million for
technical assistance.
Proiect Comnonents
36.     The Credit Component.  An amount of US$6.5 million would be made
available to NIDC for relending to private industrial enterprises. Eligible
activities would include the establishment or expansion and modernization of
enterprises in manufacturing, agrobased industries, mining, and industrial
services (e.g. engineering repair workshops). New tourism/hotel projects in
the Katbmandu Valley would not be eligible in accordance with NIDC's strategy
to diversify its portfolio.  However, two public sector enterprises in the
leather sector would be eligible under the NIDC sub-loan component for their
expansion and modernization projects identified under HE's leather develop-
ment program. Sub-loans for permanent working capital would be available
only if made in conjunction with a fixed investment sub-loan. The minimum
sub-loan size is expected to be US$20,000 equivalent as in Credit 705-NEP
which would avoid duplicating coverage by the commercial banks under TDA's
Cottage and Small Industries Project. The maximum sub-loan under the IDA
credit would be US$1.5 million. This would provide for a reasonable coverage
of industries and encourage financing from bilateral sources and joint ven-
ture partners.
I/ For the first two years of the project US$1.0 million of this sub-total
would be made available to the Nepal Rastra Bank to fund an Import/Export
Facility (para 37).



-14-
Import Export Facility (IEF)
37.     The project would assist HNG's efforts to generate additional foreign
exchange by setting up an IEF which would be designed to assist eligible
existing exporting enterprises to finance necessary imported inputs to
facilitate their production for exports. The facility would make available
the convertible foreign exchange required. Initial capital for the facility
would be US$1.5 million of which US$1.0 million eould be funded from the
proposed IDA credit; this amount would be available to the facility for two
years after which MGQINepal Rastra Bank (NIB) would replenish the IEF with
its own foreign currency resources. Thereafter the US$1.0 million of the IDA
credit would become available and would be drawn as needed to finance
eligible NIDC sub-loans. It is expected that the IEF would be maintained as
a permanent revolving source of foreign exchange for exporters. The Ministry
of Industry (MOI) in conjunction with NRB and the Ministry of Commerce would
be responsible for developing and implementing appropriate policies and
procedures for the utilization =-6 operation of the IEF. During negotiations
it was agreed that the policies and procedures would cover the following
principles and guidelines: (i) the facility would be used exclusively to
fund convertible foreign cirrency required to import inputs for the manufac-
ture of exports; (ii) the processing of applications of exporters for the
allocation of convertible foreign exchange and corresponding import licences
would be streamlined. It waV also agreed that eligibility and conditions for
the use of the facility would include (i) evidence of potential foreign
exchange earning in the form of- a letter of credit or firm export contract
for settlement in convertible foreign currency; (ii) foreign exchange
advanced to an eligible exporter would not exceed six months of imported
input requirements; (iii) foreign exchange advanced by the IEF would be net
of amounts provided out of foreign loans. It was understood that as part of
the operating procedures MDI could establish a working list of eligible
exporters whose foreign exchange requirements could be funded by the IEF.
During negotiations it was agreed that HMG and NRB would enter into an agree-
ment by which HMG would make available to NRB the US$1.0 million out of the
proceeds of the proposed credit. It-was further agreed that the conclusion
of such a satisfactory agreement would be a condition of IDA disbursement of
the funds for the IEF (Schedule 1 para 4(a) and (b) of the draft DCA).
38.     Technical Assistance Component.  The technical assistance component
of the project would involve a total of 164 man-months of advisory!
consultancy services, training, and export promotion. The following studies
would be carried out under this component:
(i) Industrial and Export Incentives: The study is intended to
review the existing package of industrial and export incentives
as well as analyze its impact on industry, recommend more
effective incentives, devise measures to improve institutional
arrangements and procedures, and provide necessary training for
effective implementation (paras 22,23).



-15-
(ii)  Light Enzineering Sub-sector:   The sub-sector'consists of small
unorganized units producing simple metal products such as
handtools, utensils, construction hardware and general
engineering workshops which fabricate agricultural implements,
water turbines, suspension bridges, roof trusses etc.
Development of the sub-sector is impeded by inter alia
inadequate raw materials, shortage of skilled manpower, obsolete
equipment and poor product design and quality. Consistent with
our objective of carrying out sub-sector studies as a means of
identifying specific opportunities for private investment, this
study will review inter alia the status of the industry and
policies affecting the sub-sector, recommend meaus of
alleviating major constraints, identify potential viable product
groups, required ancillary services. In addition, the study
would assess and recommend further incentives which would be
needed to promote entrepreneurial interest and institutioaal
support needs i.e. credit, manpower and technical services.
The outcome of this study will be the identification of a number
of viable projects and an institutional framework which would
attract both Nepalese and foreign investment to this area. The
terms of reference have been discussed and agre'd with NWG. The
selection and appointment of consultants is expected to be
completed by June 1985. The study should be completed within
five months thereafter.
(iii)  Tourism Promotion Study:  The objective of this study is to
produce a blueprint which would provide the basis for a more
aggressive marketing of Nepal's tourist potential. In FY83 the
tourism sector generated about Rs 950 million equivalent
in foreign exchange receipts increasing by 11% from FY82
compared to 28% increase in the previous year. The receipts in
convertible currencies decreased from Rs 617 million in FY82 to
Rs 494 million in FY83. Since FY79 the total number of tourists
arriving in the country has remained at about 160,000. In the
meantime investments in tourist-related projects notably,
hotels, had been increasing in anticipation of growth of tourist
arrivals which did not materialize. Since its inception in 1959
NIDC has approved total financial assistance amounting to Rs
584.6 million of which tourism/hotel investments accounted for
Rs 226.9 million (39Z). Both through WDA i previous line of
credit to NIDC and IFC's investment in one major hotel, the Bank
Group has made significant investments in the tourist sector.
The proposed study is designed to seek ways to expand the flow
of tourists to Nepal which would lead to generating foreign
exchange and higher returns to the tourism related investments.
Given the underutilization of hotel capacity and the relatively
adequate state of infrastructural services for the sector the
immediate need is to increase the flow of visitors through a
more aggressive promotion and marketing program and by improving



-16-
air access to Nepal. The proposed study woul&eanalyze the major
factors causing slow growth in tourism arrivals, review and
assess the adequacy of air passenger services, recommend
specific measures to promote an expanded tourist flow, outline a
program for tourism marketing with estimated financirg
requirements for sbch a program. The terms of reference of the
study have been discussed and agreed with the Secretary of
Tourism and the selection and appointment of consultants would
be completed by June 19B5 and the study would bp completed five
months thereafter.
39.     The project would provide selective technical assistance support to
the Government's integrated development program for the leather/leather zoods
subsector. The project would focus on key aspects of leather collection,
processing and footwear manufacture, and export market promotion. Training
would be provided to upgrade footwear design and production techniques of
rural cobblers as vell as organize courses in the manufacture of leather
goods such as belts, bags, and garments. Credit under the NIDC sub-loan
component would also be available for two companies to expand and improve
rawhide collection facilities and to modernize tanning and footwear machinery
and equipment. These subprojects would be undertaken with advisory services
to be financed under the project. The objectives of the program are to
upgrade the quality of leather and encourage efficient domestic processing
with higher value-added.
40.     Technical assistance aud training would be provided to NIDC to build
on the institutional improvements made under IDA's first credit line (paras
28 and 29). With the assistance of a consultant funded under the Project, a
projects course using Nepalese cases would be developed in NIDC to provide
practical training in project preparation, evaluatiou and implementation.
On-the-job training of selected NIDC staff with DFCs such as ICICI
experienced in follow-up activities and rehabilitation of problem projects
would also be financed under the Project. These would complement an
institutional assistance agreement between NIDC and the Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation of India (ICICI) which would focus in improving NIDC's
management information, systems of project evaluation and monitoring,
financial planning, and problem project analysis. The technical assistance
component would be provided by EHM as grants to the implementing agencies;
implementation of specific sub-components would be initiated by June 1985.
Proiect Implementation
41.    *Lendinp Terms and Conditions.  NMG would on-lend to NIDC at the
.minimum interest rates of 72 for fixed investment sub-loans and 1OZ for
working capital sub-loans (Section 3.01(b) of the draft DCA). In accordance
with the existing interest rate structure in Nepal, NIDC's interest charges
vould be 12Z for fixed investment sub-loans and 15Z for working capital
sub-loans and a commitment fee of at least 0.51 per annu (Section 2.02(e)
and (f) of the draft PA). NIDC's lending rates are positive in relation to



-17-
medium term inflation projections. There is an understanding with HMG that
NIDC's on-lending rates to industrial borrowers would be revieved annually,
and would be revised if necessary to ensure that the rates remain positive in
relation to medium-term inflation projections and consistent with the
commercial bank rates for industry.  NIDC would pay HIM a commitment fee of
0.5Z per annum of the undisbursad balance payable from the date of commitment
to the date of disbursement of each sub-loan (Section 3.01(b) of the draft
DCA).
42.     Exchange Risk.  Under the proposed project, HMG would directly
absorb the foreign exchange risk (Section 3.01(d) of the draft DCA) and no
exchange risk fee would be charged in line with HMG's current policy.
43.     Free Limit and Sub-loan Size.  NIDC's sub-loan free-limit is set at
US$150,000 equivalent (Section 2.02(c) of the draft DCA). This should allow
IDA to review about 25% of the subprojects by number and about 70Z by amount.
The minimum sub-loan size is expected to be US$20,000 equivalent as was the
experience with NIDC's first IDA Credit. The maximum sub-loan size would be
US$1.5 million which would provide a reasonably broad coverage of
subprojects, and encourage financing from bilateral sources and joint venture
partners (Section 2.02(d) of the draft PA).
44.     Amortization Schedule.  Repayments from NIDC to HMG would be based on
a fixed amortization schedule of 18 years including a grace period of 5
years. (Section 3.01(b) of the draft DCA). The maturity and grace period of
NIDC loans for fixed investment would not exceed 15 years and 3 years
respectively; maturity and grace period of sub-loans for working capital
vould not exceed 7 years and 3 years respectively (Sections 2.02(e) and (f)
of the draft PA); this repayment period is the same as in NIDC's first credit
line which showed that the proposed repayment period is appropriate to meet
the needs of industrial enterprises in Nepal.
45.     Procurement and Disbursement.  The goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased in accordance with NIDCs
procurement regulations which are satisfactory in that they take into account
factors, such as time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of the goods as
well as availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts of the same;
in the case of services, quality and the competence of the parties would be
considered (Section 2.04(a) of draft PA). IDA's disbursements for eligible
sub-loans would be against 100% of the foreign exchange cost of imported
goods and services, 70X of goods and services locally procured and initial
permanent working capital in the form of imported materials inputs. For
technical assistance components, IDA would finance 100% of expenditures for
consultancy/advisory services, overseas training, and foreign exchange cost
of imported goods (Schedule 1 of the draft DCA).
46.     Disbursements for the Import/Export Facility (IEF) would be made in
two tranches of US$500,000 each; disbursement of the first tranche would be
made after HNG/NRs have established the IEF by contributing its minimum share



-18-
of US$500,000 and HHG through the Ministry of Industry hasbadopted
eligibility criteria and procedures for the IEF satisfactory to IDA;
disbursement of the second tranche would be made after IDA's satisfactory
review of the utilization of the first tranche (Section 3.04 and Schedule 1,
para 4(b) and (c) of the draft DCA). IDA's contribution to the IEF vould be
made available for eligible NIDC sub-loans by June 30, 1987 (Section 3.08 of
the draft DCA).
47.     ReDorting. Accounts, and Auditing.  The Borrower shall maintain, or
cause to be maintained, separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with zonsistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, reeources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of NUB and
the departmentu or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
various components of the Project. In addition the Borrower shall have the
respective accounts prepared and audited for each fiscal year in accordance
vith appropriate auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association (Section 4.01(b) of draft DCA). The implementing agencies
would be required to submit quarterly progress reports on the implementation
of components under their jurisdiction. NIDC will continue to submit audit
reports in a fora satisfactory to IDA no later than 5 months after the end of
its fiscal year, i.e. by December 15 (Section 3.02 of draft PA). It will
continue to submit quarterly progress reports on its operations and
institutional developmeut.
Benefits
48.     The IDP is expected to result in additional investments and improved
efficiency in industrial enterprises in Nepal. Direct benefits of the
lending components are expected to result in about Rs 160 million in
incremental productive investments in about 40 enterprises; roughly 2,300
additional jobs would be created at a fixed cost per job averaging-US$4,000.
The Import/Export Facility expects to generate exports in convertible foreign
exchange of about US$10.0 million annually equivalent to about 30X of total
merchandise exports in 1981/82. In addition, productivity and exports of the
leather group vould be increased through key investments and technical
services at various stages of leather collection, processing, and footwear
manufacture. New projects would be promoted particularly in light
engineering and selected agroprocessing groups, vhich could result in nev
technology and foreign investments. The technical assistance components of
the project are expected to assist ENC in-implementing selected industrial
policies and export promotion efforts.  NIDC would be assisted to improve its
operations vhich should result in an improved quality of industrial projects
in Nepal'.
Risks
49.     The usual risk in the sub-loan component is that an adequate number
of identified and eligible subprojects may not materialize due to inadequate
entrepreneurial interest, the multiple constraints to industrialization and



-19-
difficulties in incentives and their administration. The proposed IDP has
been designed to help address these constraints by providing a conservative
sub-loan amount; entrepreneurial training courses in preparing and promoting
viable industrial projects; assistance in the development and implementation
of appropriate incentives for industry and exports through training and
technical assistance; and incorporation of subsector development components
in key product groups. Success of the leather development program would
depend primarily on the recovery of the leather market, the actual
structuring of the investment projects, and the ability of consultants to
influence the upgrading of methods and designs.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Nepal Industrial
Development Corporation and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
51.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Conditions of effectiveness include (a) execution of a satisfactory
subsidiary loan agreement between EMG and NIDC (Section 6.01(a) of draft
DCA) and (b) adoption of NIDC's amended Policy and Strategy Statements by
NIDC's Board of Directors (Section 6.01(b) of the draft DCA). The signing of
an agreement between HMG and NRB (Schedule 1, para 4(b) of the draft DCA)
satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of disbursement for the SDR 1.0 million
allocated for the IEF.
52.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 20, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-20-                                               ANNEX          I
T A  LE I3A                               Page  1 of 5
*sAL                 -OIAl INDICATOIS DATA, BSN1
Sin                                EEPERAL Scull (WEIIND AVRUUJ 
mOST               (T RET  EITDEATL) ft
RECENT         LOW iICON           MI ULE xENCO
iu.otk    1970a1k    STIH           ASIA U   PACIFIC      ASIA & PACIIC
AREA CIIUMS SQ U)
TOTAL                             140.8      140.3       140.8
ACRICULTURAL                       35.3       36.3        41.2
crC pM  SOn (uI)                     60.0        80.0       170.0           273.6                 1091.2
mmumc Oien.T IR CAPIT
(KILOGRMS OF OIL EQUIVALKNT)       3.0        10.0        10.0           272.0                  567.3
IOPMAIT11 AND rZL  8UTZIC
POPULATIONMlID-TEAR CTOUSA)    9404.0    11350.0       15428.0
UR8A1 POPUATION CZ OP TOTAL)       3.1         3.9        6.4             21.7                   34.i
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (MILL)                          24.3               .
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                            71.1
POPULATION NOUINTOC                                      1.9
POPULATION DNSmTY
PER Sq. MM.                      64.8       30.6       101.7            166.6                 261.9
PE sq. M. AGRI. LAND            266.2      308.4       363.1           345.5                  1735.1
POPULATION AGE STRUCTIUE (Z)
0-14 YIRS                       39.1       42.0        42.2             35.8                  39.0
15-64 YS                         57.4       55.0       54.7             59.8                   57.6
65 AND AWV                        3.5        3.0         3.0             4.3                    3.3
POPULATION ROWTH RATE CZ)
TOTAL                             1.4        1.9         2.6              1.9                   2.3
UlESA                             4.5        4.2         5.0             4.1                    4.3
CRUE BIRTH RATE (PM TNOVS)         45.9       46.3        42.9            27.7                   30.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PU TlS)          25.6       23.0        18.6            10.1                    9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.7        3.1         2.9             1.8                    2.0
FAMILY PLANING
ACCEPrORS, AUSUAL (TUOUS)          ..       29.7       223.2
USERS ( Or KAt     O)              ..        ..          7.0              ..                   52.7
ImNDE O FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     106.0      101.0        83.0            112.8                  123.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIESS)         95.0       96.0        86.0            97.7                   114.4
PROMEIS (GRAS PR DAY)            51.0       51.0        45.0            56.8                   57.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AS PULSE       10.0        9.0         6.0 Le          14.9                   14.1
WILD (ACS 1-4) DEATH RATE          32.6       27.8        22.0             9.8                    7.2
LIF EXPECT. AT BIRTH (TEARS)       38.5       41.5       45.7             60.0                   60.4
IWANT NMMT. RATE (PER TROUS)      194.5      172.5       145.2            83.3                   66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                              ,,        2.0         9.0             32.9                  37.0
URN                              47,7       53.0        81.0 7&         70.9                   54.8
RURAL                              ..        ..          5.0 f          22.1                   26.4
ACCESS TO EXORETA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        1.0         1.0 a           13.1                  41 .3
URJAN                              ''       14.0        14.0 Jj         72.8                   47.6
RURAL                              ..        ..          ..              4.6                   33.3
POPULATION PER PNYSICIN         73470.0    51360.0 /f  30060.0          3484.2                 77'9.4
POP. PER NRING PERSN                       70500. 0 f  33420.0          4793.1                 2460.4
POP. PI HSPpITAL IS
TOTAL                          8260.0     6930.0      5780.0           1066.5                 1044.2
UN                              290.0      330.0       450.0 IC        298.0                  651.2
RURAL                              ..        ..           ..           5993M.                 2594.6
ADMISSIONS PE HOSPITAL BED          .. ..                  ..               ..                   27.0
warn
AURAS SIZE OF HOUSEHDLD
TOTAL                                        5.5
URRAN                             5.6         ..
AL                                 ..         ..
AVERAGE N. OF PERSONSIR|
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                             2.0         ..
a~~~~~ '.                                      ..
ACSS TO ELECT. (Z Or DWELINGS)
TOTAL                              ,.         .,         3.0,
URAN                             30.2         ..
RL                                 ..         ..



-21-                                              ANNEX           I
Page 2 of 5
NEPAL                      _         _OCIAL _NDICATORDATA INlND
HOST                (MT RICNT 257THATE) L
19601k    1970         RECENT          uW mcmi               HIDDIA INCOME
9yL   siiTDiATiLk.  ASIA & PACXFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
XDKWN
ADJUSTED EISOLWENT PATIOS
PRINARTs  TOTAL                    10.0       26.0         91.0              97.4                   102.0
MALE                    19.0        43.0       126.0             110.5                   105.9
FULZ                     1.0         S.0        53.0              83.7                    9S.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   6.0        10.0         21.0             35.9                     46.0
KALE                    11.0        16.0        33.0              44.6                    48.7
FmIUA                    2.0         3.0         9.0              26.1                    43.1
VOCATIONAL (2 oF SEONDART)           0.2         5.6          6.6 /e           2.2                     17.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIAIUT                            33.0       22.0         38.0             38.5                     31.6
SECOUDART                         32.0 A        ..         31.0             16.7                     23.5
ADULT LERACT RATE CZ)                  .        13.0         19.0             53.4                     72.9
PASSENGR CARS/THOUSAND POP           0.1         0.4            .              0.9                     10.1
RADIO RECEIVERSP/TOUSAND POP          3.0        4.6         20.5            112.1                    113.6
TV RSCEIVERS/TROUSAND  O               ..         ..           ..              15.7                    50.1
NEWSAPERA ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEZRST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             0.7        2.4          7.3 /d           16.2                    53.9
CIND(A ANNUAL ATTENIMNCE/CPITA        ..          ..           ..              3.6                      3.4
LABOR PODEM
TOTAL lABOR FORCE (THOUS)          4853.0     5534.0       7316.0
FEM   (PERCENT)                    40.5       39.2         3B.9             33.3                     33.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              95.0       94.0         93.0             69.6                     52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 2.0         2.0          2.0             15.6                    17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              51.6       48.8         47.4             42.6                     38.7
fALE                              61.5        58.B         57.6             54.7                     50.9
FEKALE                            41.8        38.6         37.1             29.6                     26.6
ECONMIQC DEPENDENCY RATIO            0.8         0.9          1.0              1.0                      1.1
TIII  pDIEUDUIO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE IRCME
RECEIVED BY
HIGUEST SE OF HOUSEIIDLDS            ..         ..         35.3 /c            ..                     22.2
HIGBEST 201 OF IOUSEODLDS           ..          ..         59.2 77            ..                    46.0
LOWEST 20S OF HOUSEODLDS            ..          ..          4.6               ..                     6.4
L1tESr 40S OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         ..         12.6 ic            ..                     15.5
POT1012  TAinT  -RO
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCQIE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..         ..         95.0 /i         133.9                    186.6
RURAL                               ..          ..         45.0 7          111.6                    152.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVER  INOE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..           ..               ..                    177.9
RURAL                               ..          ..         41.0 /I            ..                    164.6
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUtrE
POTIRYC INCOME LEVEL (S)
URBJU                                ..         ..         55.0 /c          43.6                     23.4
RURAL                               ..          ..         61.0 &          51.7                     37.7
NOT AVAILABLE
lNOT APPLICABLE
N OT E S
/a  The group averages for each Indicator are population-weighted aritbmtlc ua. C. eraer of contries aon the
indicators depands on availability of data and Is not uniform.
/b   bleme otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to ay year betuen 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betwee  1969 mud
1971; and data for flout Recent Estlate' between 1980 and 1982.
Ic  1977; /d 1976; 1. 1975: If Personanl in govenment *ervices only; /L Perentae of population;  lb 1963;
JUNE. I96



_Pw  age A.  -  .43 - see3g3e" e693 1A          3 33
.     p a  91eseea1   3.019)   - 9133  Image p l3- se30130 "a3
.01-, La  .-.S93p .1-ox          .w dedl ena23lese 31193 P  l43
-Iv69 33113 .*'tllej m.9309339  s  9
a. 544.133223d.i.1  *  ..4  .3 -e  s-     Fu9eq-q 19. P -re
-l.-sa9 el2 seek SAid pi- e-l .tq.013, see13 pn .1 -.3-
33   P  MU-5  "flts.fla k          -  P-wi-a  .q La a.3  .
-  11933.3  53348  *3391d~  P-"--90           - r3les     31
IftI                                                                           p.   914    31i6   993=31   =.wos - M- 39i   9i903
-u.s.a .a.- P. 93.3. i."   n.a4 -.                                                             *r  9     s      n.1 ni   i.  3            q.*ynaq.de-
...P NMt 3- Ons  gomt vel.a" oil Pa-.. -34   9  3
3633  33  39  (398353- 339395   *.iS.4  - 3133395 - 33*91 993ti-3d  9333 333.-' P -   993- 3`- 36.B3e3 '        119 -  -          L.13v
.9....9a -s   usa; 5 3-4 39339 3    3P-i9(  955  301)-s l    -0a                                                         %e
-193p9319-g(s".3 I-e3 tfl 39.-333   J1393  4953931  p.esa;3l                             --3 93  S   p 392031 cm39     - 0 1393 33 19. 3-3 ffi-        #131
_110   3933.1  99  p31313333.  p3-_                       .9*9--3 cidS .0.14a J-e  -(ee"    " s  qa;ii. .p .5a3-  3-d- pM
~ 3364333Sq 1-3~19- (p333-3-   1  i1),01   i-.BJt1jg " P[-9343  a   P, 1029   93.4314                                   -    A(13  iO s- m5saa    e.i   9i53B J.
3'-                                                                                                  113~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~feI-3.3J   se  cp 43333S aqy. p.1 B d. l3vj. -933193331J 3 
j.1-a,-3e        -  3'l33131   91i39 -d   ofI                                                           3.3 P993-r t.33ka    Aid. 5qA   -1  see333        Atau--91
-.03. AN P.3434339559635.1333695931I                                              333919   9319J"3   3131   -kS.3*    -   3p.   sn
3-15693  0990   .533.419253  -5043911.30 03133333 eq1   91  333  1993113 ..ii4i~ol 113   9p3- v3 SBSq  v-  1m493
?431    so31149 S I3 333   -I 16933934 P4.13-i    - 31 163P11 k43o                    33   i41- 33   5i.1  93- atq-33-P  N340 jo 333 au AR    3693393343 es 10
69 43*3  0933.3-B  3-  1]69  I3          -a1 ..0   .3153.5                                    -                            4333933*ese le  ee . P-336   15   3
T0 09No43131534g 0- 333  3-   33.,     43 el  J 3. 30   i419 fts2695331                                                                                      19339--   n   34te.1  %...   am ..t
seleop:Zlftnoe" ..013 M  ..  ..9349 33 to5l 3-                            191 3- "' '61 d"  `-t93 19933.--3P -34P-5 sel69le 13934396  9A9
!S3-  3an_-W I   P.3 333313-B  33P  i339   *3 t-      g    1-m 13. 3l~                       93.0.3 -Id    -  3A W  3-  :iqs.    _= 9236   (I0    3 3         All-_
3-395993h.B9   I.sa   PaJ 0193 3.9693  r-                                        -J ps     q.        i31       -n      ns-    *p   sqad,
3169 693 p3 01   *ou    3319.1.p4o90eDG   W I'  "f-en                                     .-   deeet" nal           Peel
p019 339935.  33-2  1   330-51 -- 339995  3343.933393.                                     0   ;-moes P.2  . -S   p30u        43-ro a0 --   a. k31esen  r3q-
p- W13-o  ".-J lftle3                                                      990    ~        99339 393  99i413bP 995*333933211
m  _,nm'"   -_  1 333A -i-9931   9  9934-   9                                     B3    P1.31  99      3363   3
0-all 33.053                                     " s33c3-133319M   -Jp. -3   943 393a9 92  339-34ina.3
P-s   ftl1   39d499           tiwel  pT3g-3.*  "351J  3.p.i  53.133 6901                      39     411jl 330116  Fel .04-   333-- 0451  33233334
910 36953333301 13  14P 1 23   im 19KE2                    N43413   931        3 3-(5.P1 11.             5 191933115J.  -M 39196934 *3,
091933*333   33333303                                                 ____________________~~~~~~ P   le  n -   J
3-   69)919  5i01a.   993    13-9439 UR                                         ee Ic  0  'ul - 11.431-11"ll-e Net- 3 T- 05*3  so   2.33934434
.-O        p                                              _______J141-' --343   -3-      99393901   331333 I_ 9  k1.134  I722'  .33  -%- p.-49   - 3P-w3  e3333s, 19f 69 3
3-30  *tplfe .            M-A 130   *39  1f    1,  43.32-p Pe  . e3693 -    P1                                                     3- I M7   *54 o'39   30131113
33  3320           .-91  Sq 9993- .13  113933  3- ses"                                                                                     *399.9)33
93.390 ,19993  ."AL -, 4139909 P   11V131- a333 3931131344                                                                           .    54M M'*66
4*11em1-5 109133333    95333                    35 43136943333                        311 3333391  36P  339 lua  -   Ves   1139)32  93  9  694
331    asalaskm-u3495611*  331313s   339a0 33014-,,  11-9301N 9101f 01431 464  03 La9.  19   3    1-a   313
M01I-3693         e 163199A.1 %I  .l 4 33-s 3d 9, m me  J,33. M ;.."39                     fl693 436969434941 31541i-             P6e3   939133 .0
99-lee es ~         m- u         53-9      31-- 92313-                                            0        3 o3e3s-4 w0'as9219.3.3 Goal
933-5 919 310 '336923.113 -         .14233.256933594    --                                                    29  31    31-  .01'3.-.
eseeff Li   81 !43-3-iP61-a  f                                     9  0*30 21313.3133 113
Is"  -A os       *AtotissI30331119 33193 3    533913*321-34 -3333ll                               6959d  1   .13 019   as9 331133. 3.5  110461
0331134 6 .4-swild    393.3  A.   i253a4.3     go elftl                                          ft1   nd .9*393~ -5A63201     A 3331 3303   993  3 "a9 p-61 Iola
A-p-    - P -ep -F."isee 1- -1le33                                                                            i43
3- 0*les53  91-14-69990                           lessc 34154.5 .  --lij p                          "'3311  'P 1 1340 'M191   - %-  3-S 3k31    331p
1 903Jo93ss - 93249d03 Ise"    3-u413 v1  93t .19   a." 9393  p                     1933 1  9949  101303  .30444  33*
3193-   P.*0   3339  59-9 19393   399 -31        9953II - 3-43
o        11~33w~~69  199 llPu.399t 1~ 469433 3936336911 33~6Lt -                                      3333333014 11= 333 31911 i9  1313 - 11.03  -.1I3-
30303935    03a   9    9399     19914=0t                                                                    A          *A I  lse33    *'33.   303 3- 'd 3
- -,                 305969 P43093 333333543 33 9933319913419695              "'" 3*n  ~                           MM13  6 P116  11if .314f As33934 -a. -Vsee    13K"-
P 3e-l93194933 l.a  29332u49   39439  'p.991309  10339 3113*tlPos w-u                                                 ma es        P
3q "-39      .34393 p333334 P6  I361   0u49   3933993932e4  1193161   330   349a    0-
6919 3934919 p   1       t33 sted Ignomom.33S5  -33I9)  9 39;1913P    U&   og esag-x
1q13)leo   ekisee Me - I9P s3  .119333*    .  T-1-mo-1(96.1 - )19 33)34t319 333eses ee, P33333                                                  9.9 3.9  3-  0
Mol                                             Nesees" v~~6-33132   tia        ?omo1 10113  31      -14's J-4  0931139 "3-e 3A.1 U.33I's) e0
3- 39)0  691334i   9)1  333333-29.369  333313*993331 39369              3.9 us   oe  -qM.fl Am994 3.49391   33913-39M33
km-mip s-s  Sq 93a19  uaep4a - .91I's4t',  s 33-'3.-.19.-pa,  -06
19 -- .     13. 95 '3134d-    09 -la.  6339I (..   .." t399t699esi  49169es Ap.sse33933369   39-3PA0II  p. of     66   193 1039-s    3933p.   999333 9V
As3 3333  191          N 33336   wages 33693-93 9931103393  93 I-0   m0331W   993336343 is                 331-10191s" .39-n,0344   9  9                 11
391939.349  0932 p..    "ede 33-919  339953   -50   31993  3t- 631   93639   39J3341    3393   1                              0.35432   13. 
PMt3in1k34 t 19 1        P. 3193-39  9959.   r- 3933  d 3 -99. nt9i35 3-633331    -9    s                 311690 I a=" 3340613" 3-3  u4 39 9   9393
.1 em  P"""  P  Ne 1=     I                            IS3   1939I0Iwaist
owlo    oSuj                                      W.O~A~-
I  nzuw                                                                       -zz-~~~~~~~~~l"elos'flt-M  anr  i.1-slssowoon 3u   olsae



-23-                              ASl       I
Pag 4 of 5
P       CAPITA1 193: 1170
GRSS  ONESTI PEUDC  IN 19821/3                                   A- UAL RAT OF GRlEl. 1970-1982 a1
uZ. constant prices)
GE ar Neket Prices               2.426      100.0               -              2.7
Cross Domestic Inwestment          513       211
Gross Dometic sawin                237       9.8
Crent Accout Dalane  (exc_
official grants)                 -208       -.6
liors of Goods. UlS                238       9.8
imports of Goods, N5               514      21.2
OUTPUT. LABOR PO= AIMD IRICTIVI  IN 1560181
Valne Added
Value Added            bor rce              Per worker
llS  Msa.    2           NM-.      j              us$
Agricaltur                       1,293        61           7.2      91.2            180
Industry JO                        262       12            0_04     0.5           6,550
SetviweL                           567        27           0.66     8.3             859
Tot/lkverage                2.122       100           7.9    100               269
G-V FLDU=
CENTRAL    -
Rs. no.
I of GDP
19801s1     1981182     I233         1983/84     1983184
Current Receipts                   2,403       2,866        2,84Z       3,404        8.9
REgular Expeaditores               1.264       1.5i9        12.97       2.263         5.9
currect Surpls                     1.139       1,277          845       1.141        3.0
Developmet Zxpenditure             2,731       4.034        4,982       5.060        13.3
Zxerrn  Assistance (Nat)           1,374       1,953        2,312       2.246        5.9
1M3. CREDIrr TAID PRICE
1980        1981         M-2         1983       1984
(hillio Be outst ading mid-July)
honey and Quasi Noney                        5.285       6.308       7,459         9,222     10,458
Bank Credit to Governmet                     1.362       1,357       2,132         4,131      4,781
Bank Credit to Public Enterprise              501          668         675           972        959
ank Credit to Privat Sector                 2,547        3,231       3.307         3,429      4.048
lone ad Qu-i Mo-y- as I of CUP                22.6        21.7        22.9          27.4       27.4
Cenral Price Index C97M - 100)               128.7       145.9       161.2         184.1      197.5
Annual Percentage Changes in:
,enCal Price Inde                             9.8         13.4        10.4          14.2        7.3
ank Credit to Government                     15.8          0.4        57.1          93.8       15.7
Dank Credit to Public ZEterprises             14.9        33.3         1.0          44.0       -1.3
Dank Credit to Private Sector                28.9         26.9         2.4           3.7       18.1
Dote: All coavesiow  to US dollars in this table ae at the aerage ezchange rate pevailing
during the period covered.
risal per data am for Dailese fiscal yar. Juy 16 - July 15.
g1 World Deelopment Rport 19S4.
W  Total labor force; nmployed ae allocated to sector of their noc_1 occupation.
c  Incldes mining, manufacturing. costrction and utilities.
not avaiable



raw 5 of 5
AM or PAW-    AmUSim  e                                   ,z
1' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x
Narts. f.o.b. /                      W.5          .0       "A               sicultcl produ e                    60.4    00.7
lapars c.i.f. A/    -31.                       46U.7     3".1                 mlactm                          3          1
m    ;kiif                     -266.3    -34.       -299.5                                                ".6    100.0
sarvias. mat                         106.3     1L.2         9.2
of It6h:  tim                       64.9      60.3       5.4                                         1
Irmfrs m,Mt                           40.4    U .5        4.3
of  dLce: Private lasIt.            34.5      61.2     *                   b-t Debt. inc. pute,d                346.4 _
India  mim  Usfun         3.1        6.7        ..             Umm-GAa           Private Debt
ei eula                        -119.6    -20M.0    -L34.0              SotL Otstat dim  4 Dsbursd            3*6.4
(eat. ars
OfficiaL  Cr=te                       39.3     102.4      85.0
Official Capital. Mt                  59.7      64.4      63.3
Privat Capitl. ust                     9.3      -7.3        ..              11 #YT  RATO for l1   j,                3
Chin in  as                     -33.7     4*.5         5.2             Publc Dabt. Inc.  aantead               6.0
Ccam  OfficiAl 3asav. (midd-Jly)    231.1      166.0      132.2 V/                  L      . t_b    r 30. 934 Caii   inms 0MS
mD  m
OuLatanling G Disbursed                     20.3
Wadubusa                             -      339.4
Outst.aig, intl. cndiab  ad         -       57.7
WATE or 70430
19-9130                 1136/31                 11l3181                   1962183      1       .S _
5.   - I 12.00    oo1.00 - Rs 12.00            uS1.00 - In 12.96             .00 - Is 13.66         uS1.0 -      .
as 1.60 - MS 0.3        as 1.00 - lS 0.083    as 1.00 - MSS 0.077        Is 1.0 - 056 0.072         Rs 1.00 - Uf  '.065
most lecent l*te JL
Sy~a  10.. 113_
1.e     - as 17.4
is 1.60 - MSS 0.057
.zI Ksmt.
Customs basis.
L Paym&A  basis.
A/  Utio of Dabt Scrwics to nspore of CGods ad Services.
S,ia Susa 1. 1,33. tbs Nepa  astra Bank s*_onces the euchsnga rate daily.
band an a trad*-waigbted has_t. wish tbs M da11l  as the itervention
teany. Db ta  am  har is lbs mid-rate an bes date indicated.
1id April 1134.
an applicable
,     aailable, 
South Asit- Progras D_partman
Iovi_-  3. 1934



ANNE= II
-25-                          Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A. STATEMET OF IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1984) aJ
US$ million
(net of cancellations)
No.   Year      Borrower         Purpose                         IDA   Undisbursed
Ten credits fully disbursed                                      82.3
470    1974  Kingdom of Nepal  Water Supply and Sewerage        11.8        1.1
704    1977  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Water Supply & Sewerage   8.0         2.3
705    1977 Kingdom of Nepal  Ijidustrial Dev. Corporation       4.0       0.7
730    1977  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Highway                   17.0        1.7
772    1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Education               5.7        2.2
799    1978 Kingdom of Nepal  Telecommunications III            14.5        4.3
812    1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Suusari-morang)      30.0       15.4
856    1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Narayani Zone)       '4.0        5.6
939    1979 Kingdom of Nepal  Second Rural Developm.!ut        1I.I         8.8
1008    1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Community Forestry               17.0       14.3
1055    1980 Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Mahakali)             lo.O       14.2
1059    1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Third Water Supply & Sewerage   2; n        15.2
1062cJ  1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Grain Storage                     6.2       4.3
1093c1  1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Babai)                3.5        0.3
llOOc/  1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Agricultural Extension & Res.   17.5         7.2
lOlcI  1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Hill Food Production              8.0        5.1
1191c/  1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Cottage & Small Industries        6.5        3.6
1198c/  1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Education                 14.3      11.5
1260cl  1982 Kingdom of Nepal  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  9.2         4.7
1316c/  1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation VII-Bhairawa-Lumbini 16.0       12.4
1339c/  1983  Kingdom of Nepal Cash Crop Development Project    6.0         4.9
1379c/ 1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Technical Assistance
Project                        6.!        5.5
1400c/ 1983  Kingdom of Nepal Second Forestry Project            18.0       16.7
1452c/  1984  Kingdom of Nepal Karnali Preparation Project
(Phase I)                     11.0       10.2
1463c/d/1984  Kingdom of Nepe' Primary Education                 12.7      12.7
1984  Kingdom of N-pal Marsyangdi Hydroelectric
Power Project_/              107.0      107.0
1984  Kingdom ox Nepal  Third Highways _S/e              47.5      47.5
Total,                          547.7        339.4
of which has been repaid        0.5
Total now outstanding b/        547.2
Total now held by IDA           547.2
a/ No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
bJ  Prior to exchange adustments.
c/  IDA 6th Replenishment Credits, principal amounts shown in U.S. dollar
equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in President Reports, and
Disbursed amounts shown in US dollar equivalent at the rate of exchange
for the SDR on September 30, 1984.
A/ Not yet effective.
e/ Not yet signed.



-26-
ANEK 1I
Page 2 of 2
B.  SThIEET OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of Seutember 30. 1984)
Amount ($ million)
Ye_ar            Obliror           Tvye of Business        Loan Equity  Total
1975    Soaltee Hotel (Pvt) Ltd.   Hotel                   2.7    0.4    3.1
1982    Nepal Orind Nagnesite      Nine and process        4.8     -      4.8
(Private) Limited         magnesite ore
Total counitments now held by IPC                  7.5    0.4     7.9
-1



-27-
ANNEX III
Page   I
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEHENTARY PROJECT D&TA SHEET
Section I:      Tizmetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare proiect
12 months
(b) The azencies which had prepared the project
.Iinistry of Industry, NIDC with the assistance
of IDA missions.
Cc) Date of first presentation to Bank Group
February 1983
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 17, 1983
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
November, 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
April, 1985
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Action
None



-28-                            ANNEX III
Page   2
Section III:    Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
HMG and NIDC (para 51); and
(b)  the adoption by NIDC's Board of Directors of its amended           v
Policy and Strategy Statements (paras 29 and 51).
Condition of Disbursement
(a) the signing of an agreement between HHG and NBB for the
SDR 1.0 million allocated for the IEF (para 51).



*0'~~~~~~~~~ .8,                                                                   2z                                                 -   4
N E P A L
1 )I r                              C                                       INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,r  g   >,_e    ^>*   +                   Nepal Leather Development Program - Hide Collection System
4                       4                            <                              *  E Helaudo Head Office
4..    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~  ~~~Regional Offices
jV@'  t FAR  WESTERN   j                               ,    '  .kr                                                           o      District Olfices
0-   t    ,         .                      MID WESTERN               L                                                          :         t              Bound4ries
~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~ ~ 0 NationalCail
M(h* ndronog                                                                                                                            Development Region Bounddries
(\                          ..., RS           s .. \ .. -*C V*                                            -      Administrative Zonal Boundaries
. {19DhonGodhl \> Eb H                                              E R I                                           -.-   International Boundaries
e Surkhiet                                                         . ...IIN
'\g iru          5,                                 ~ SJ * 2WESTERN%z              W M     ij             -^ *-'~--  Rineri
9Gultaria        ol AR  A  P  T IA...--*A
z                             S    /                                    2                                 ita 9rl>"i 2>'\   * j  ha                         t -%..
'-~..  Daruli   * ( SA,/0 M  A  VI            Ir                                              s
K ap lb , ,u  r a nseu l      .o         . .                           I ul
IFU ~~~9utwal  ~ ~.e ~Kathma
Bhairahawa*    ePara    ~  ....         .~                     (E( STERN
N                              i.  dhozrob.o                              4  , po,osl Holwudo   <-t                                 S   NI
/\J                           ,) ireonj    8 eC        M           zj  ~u       S    @}       oi ta
'V                                   !e~~~~~~~~~~~~~i'rgang "i 
-5t  OKoo2   aMolongwo})hn-0Gooo*>    :oowSE 
a   20      4o~~    d?        soaliv                                                                            *alng             aan 'I' G01ghaiV*~            M E C tiI
'___________________________________ r. Jol.  wo                                                                              Jan  p     hraho            0 Itahori? ODomak
KILOMEIIIS  ~~~'                                            Jateawar ~~~~~       *..,     Raib~~i,~~~ lnaruwa            f
11. .,ssh hl- E.y fA   IMvr1WnWII IL.Ul MIN MU Ml &re  0 1                                 tn                                                            %., j >          s.
1W ,A.Afl mal ..tts.' A. s. .lwljme 0 1w AsSll^nF@*Nl u                                                                                                 1\j NW                 w
F*AE sIwJks.ri  IlAl Als1JwuWn vaOj hS nr hrmsue 11MW Is.X rn 1,w IA ISV                                                                                                            r
.,i*. ,. V ne f l dtie VOltSi 510 .55 nr IVmskls Vsv  s;r .lJA. .vp*w
ao  n rr. agrl                                                                                                                    as' a                                         as'wF"n rr^rz Ysr  d"  sOr  0
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N SW r                                                                                                     bV rl  r
IV   Iw tw   at rh   r-  Itr   i,jr ,va ,VAI@Vo






