Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C  A. 's   ^
Report No. 4982-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 12, 1984
South Asia Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a resticted distribuion nd may be used by recipients only in the perormance Of
their offici  dnti. Its contents may na oherwise be dicosed without Wod Bank authokriuion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees (Rs.)
US$ = Rs. 17.3
Rsl = US$0.0578
ABBREVIATIONS
BANSBARI  - Bansbari Leather and Shoe Factory, Ltd.
FITA      - Foreign Investment and Technology Act
ELI       - Hetauda Leather Industries
HMG       - His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICICI     - Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDA       - International Development Association
IDP       - Industrial Development Project
IEA       - Industrial Enterprises Act
IEF       - Import/Export Facility
ISC       - Industrial Services Centre
KfW       - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederauftan
LICC      - Leather Industries Coordination Cell
MOI       - Ministry of Industry
NBL       - Nepal Bank Ltd.
NIDC      - Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
NRB       - Nepal Rastra Bank
RBB       - Rastriya Banijya Bank
;RCDC     - Raw Hide Collection and Development Company
ENAC      - Royal Nepalese Airlines Company
TPI       - Tropical Products Institute
UNDP      - United Nations Development Programe
USAID     - United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
1MG/Financial Institutions: July 16 to July 15



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             The Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiaries:        Nepal Industrial Development Corporation (NIDC) and
private industrial enterprises and leather/leather goods
manufacturers and exporters.
Amount:                SDR 7.5 million (US$7.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Relending Terms:       Government would on-lend US$6.5 million to NIDC at minimum
interest rates of 7% for fixed investment subloans and at
10% for permanent working capital subloans repayable over
18 years including a grace period of 5 years; NIDC would
on-lend to subborrowers at 12% and 15% for fixed investment
and working capital subloans. respectively. During the
first two years of project implementation, the Government
would utilize US$1.0 million of the US$6.5 million to be
on-lent to NIDC as its contribution to an Import/Export
Facility to be established in the Nepal Ractra Bank.
Foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government.
uS$1.0 million in technical assistance would be provided
to implementing agencies as grants.
Proiect Description:  The Project is part of IDA's continuing efforts in assisting
government to promote industries in Nepal with greater
private sector participation. Project components are: (a) a
line of credit to NIDC to finance industrial investment
projects; (b) technical assistance and training to NIDC in
strengthening operational standards and procedures
particularly in project implementation and supervision and
management information; (c) consultancy and advisory
services to improve formulation and implementation of
industrial and export incentives, tourism promotion, and
efficiency and quality of leather goods production and to
assist in formulating a development program for the light
engineering subsector; (d) foreign exchange funds to
establish an Import/Export Facility for export oriented
enterprises. The project does not contain any unusual risk.
This document has a restricd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
US$ Million Equivalent
I. Estimated Cost:                             F:reign      Local       Total
A.  Sui4loan Component                       6.5          2.8         9.3
B.  Import/Export Facility                   1.5           -          1.5
C.  Technical Assistance                     1.0          0.2         1.2
Total                                    9.0          3.0        12.0
US$ Million Equivalent
II. Financing Plan:                             Foreign      Local       Total
A. Government                                1.5           0.2        1.7
B. IDA                                       7.5           -          7.5
C.  Sponsors                                  -           2.8         2.8
Total                                    9.0          3.0        12.0
III. Estimated Disbursement                        US$ Million Equivalent
IDA FY                          FY85   FY86    FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91
Annual                           1.0    0.7      1.4    1.7    1.2    0.9    0.6
Cumulative                       1.0    1.7      3.1    4.8    6.0    6.9    7.5



-iii-
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF AN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
I.  INTRODUCTION        ...........................1.................. 
II.  SECTORAL FRAMEWORK ................. .      ................ .       2
A. Economic Environment ................    ..      ............     2
B. Industrial Sector ......       ...............................    4
- Industrial Structure ................................           4
- Export Patterns ....................................            4
- Industrial Policy ......       .............................    6
- Industrial Finance ......       .......................         7
III.  THE PROJECT ..............................................           8
A. Scope and Objectives ......        ............................   8
B. Credit Component ......       ..........................          8
C. Technical Assistance Component        . . .                      11
D. Summary of Components and Costs ...................     ....    15
IV.  NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NIDC)                     15
A. Institutional Aspects            .................................    15
B. Policies and Strategies ............. ..       ................    17
C. Standards and Procedures .....         .........................    18
D. Operational Performance ............. ..       ................    21
E. Financial Performance .............. ..       .................    24
F. Projected Operations .................        .................    25
V.  LEATHER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM ...............................    27
A. Subsector Focus/Program ......        .........................    27
B. Leat'her Sector Projects ...............................    28
- Bansbari Modernization Subproject ....         ...............    28
- Hide Collection Expansion and Upgrading Subproject ..    29
C. Technical Assistance Components .....        ..................    31
VI.  THE PROPOSED CREDIT ......        ................................    33
A. Credit Arrangements ...................................    33
B. Major Terms and Conditions .....        .................... I..    34
VII.  BENEFITS AND RISKS .......................................    35
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS ..........................................    36
This report was prepared by C.A. Punsalan, J. Balkind, and K.J. Hong
folloving their appraisal mission to Nepal in November, 1983.
Messrs. Peter P. Street (Consultant), J. Berg (UNIDO), and J. Simmons
(former Bank Tourism Advisor) also participated in the preparation of the
project.



-iv-
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. NEPAL: The Leather and Leather Goods Subsector
2. NEPAL: Interest Rate Structure
3.  NIDC:   Statement of Investment and Operational Policies
4.  NIDC:   Strategy Statement
5. NIDC:   Organization Chart
6.  NIDC:   Summary of Operations
7. NIDC:   Industrial Distribution of Outstanding Loans
8. NIDC:   Income Statements, FY79 - FY84
9. NIDC:   Collection Performance/Arrears Position
10. NIDC:  Balance Sheet Statements, FY79 - FY84
11. NIDC:   Projected Loan Operations, FY85 - FY88
12. NIDC:   Projected Income Statements, FY85 - FY88
13. NIDC:   Projected Cashflow Statements, FY85 - FY88
14. NIDC:   Projected Balance Sheet Statements, FY85 - FY88
15.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
16. Supporting Documents Available in Project File
MAP
Number 18038: Nepal: Industrial Development Project



NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    Nepal's industrial sector is small; prospects for growth in industrial
output and exports are constrained by geographical location, limited resources, a
small domestic market, and inadequate industrial manpower. However, there is
scope for industrial development in selected product groups including light
engineering products, leather and leather goods, handicraft products,
agroprocessing, building materials, and some basic consumer goods. The
deteriorating balance of payments position highlights the need to develop viable
import-substitution and export-oriented ventures. In 1982, His Majesty's Govern-
ment (HMG) of Nepal adopted a new Industrial Policy which emphasizes the promo-
tion of local and foreign private investment in manufacturing and exports.
Simultaneously, an Act relating to Foreign Investments and Technology, (FITA) and
the Industrial Enterprises Act (IEA) were enacted to provide the framework for
achieving HMG's industrial objectives. The Bank Group's sector work and lending
is supporting HMG in meeting these objectives by providing term finance for
viable industrial activities, providing technical assistance in implementing
policy reform, and assisting HNG in strengthening commercial and promotional
services, particularly in promising export product groups. The proposed
Industrial Development Project (IDP) is an integral part of this effort.
1.02    Previous Industrial Bank Group Operations.  The first credit line to
Nepal Industrial Development Corporation (NIDC) of US$4.0 million was made in
1978; IDA also executed UNDP financed technical assistance projects involving a
policy advisor and an accounting/management information advisor who were assigned
to NIDC for two years each. The Bank Group is supporting a Cottage and Small
Industries (CSI) Project, with a US$6.5 million IDA Credit (1191-NEP) and a
US$2 million UNDP financed, Bank executed technical assistance project. This
project provides credit to CSIs and related commercial concerns through the two
commercial banks and the Agricultural Development Bank; product development and
export promotion services focusing on promising CSI product groups; training and
technical services to upgrade CSI production skills. IFC has assisted a hotel
and a magnesite mining project with financial commitments of US$3.1 million and
US$5.6 million respectively; an IFC commitment of US$3.0 million has recently
been approved for a lead/zinc project; and IFC currently is considering
pulp/paper project and small iron/steel foundries.
1.03    Industrial Development Proiect.  The proposed project is designed to
promote industrial investments and exports in Nepal, primarily in the private
sector. NIDC, the only industrial development bank in Nepal, would be supported
with IDA's financing of eligible subprojects and technical assistance to achieve
further improvements in NIDC's operations. Funds would be available for a train-
ing course to upgrade quality of industrial project appraisal and supervision.
Implementation of Credit 705-REP was delayed principally due to NIDC's inadequate
local currency resources and some institutional weaknesses (para. 4.01). NIDC,



-2-
with the assistance of HMG/NRB, however, has adopted a satisfactory program to
ensure availability of local currency resources and has taken appropriate actions
to upgrade its operations. Under the IDP, technical assistance and training
would be provided to build on the institutional improvements made under IDA's
first credit line to NIDC focusing on the areas of financial and resource plan-
ning, project impiementation and arrears management.  The project would make
financing available for an integrated leather development program which would
help improve efficiency and quality of output at each stage, expand hide and skin
collection capacity, and enhance value added in this important export subsector.
Work will be initiated under the IDP to develop a similar program for light
engineering, which could be pursued in a subsequent project. Technical assis-
tance would be provided in implementing HMG's industrial and export incentive
schemes and in strengthening promotion of tourism. In addition, the project
would facilitate exports and related imports by funding an Import/Export
Facility. This report outlines a US$12.0 million project with IDA providing
US$6.5 million for subloans to industry and for the foreign exchange facility for
exporters, and US$1.0 million in technical assistance.
II. SECTORAL FRAMEWORK jj
A. Economic Environment
2.01    Nepal launched the Sixth Plan for the period of FY81 to FY85 under the
unfavorable conditions. There had been three poor monsoons, long-term agricul-
tural productivity was stagnant, and a disappointing economic performance during
the preceding Plan period. The GDP growth rate reached 5.6% (in real terms) in
FY81 as the economy recovered from the severe and wide-spread drought of FY80.
In FY82, GDP grew at a slower rate of 3.8%, but which was still higher than the
average 2.1% p.a. growth achieved in the preceding Plan period. High population
growth of 2.6Z p.a. over the past decade eroded gains in per capita GDP.
However, during the first two years of the Sixth Plan period, per capita GDP rose
to US$150 (FY81), with GDP growing more rapidly than population.
2.02    Agriculture accounts for 62% of GDP, roughly two-thirds of export earn-
ings and about 90% of employment. The manufacturing, mining and construction
sectors together account for only 9% of GDP. Following the severe drought of
FY80, the Government made a strong effort to improve the supply of agricultural
and manufacturing inputs. These efforts, aided by favorable weather, resulted
in some gains in output, revenues and exports in FY81 and FY82. In the following
year, however, Nepal experienced yet another drought-induced setback. Compared
to the previous year, agricultural and overall production declined, the budgetary
1J A more detailed assessment of Nepal's economy is contained in the Bank's
latest economic report, "NEPAL: Recent Developments and Selected Issues in
Trade Promotion", Report No. 4663-NEP dated October 14, 1983.



-3-
situation deteriorated, inflation accelerated and the balance of payments
recorded an unusually large overall deficit.
2.03    The manufacturing sector, contributing about 5% of GDP, grew at an
average annual rate of 2.3% (in 1974/75 constant prices) during the Fifth Plan
period. Manufacturing output in 1980/81 declined due to shortages of raw
materials and power. These constraints have eased with improvements in raw
material supply and the completion of the Kulekhani I hydroelectric project.
Since 1981, production and capacity utilization have increased, notably for
sugar, jute goods, cement and fertilizers. On the policy front, the Industrial
Enterprises Act and the Foreign Investment and Technology Act of 1981 provide
additional incentives and emphasis on local as well as foreign private invest-
ment, and simplification of industrial licensing procedures. Since the new
policy announcement, a number of private and joint public-private ventures are
being undertaken, including a spinning and a coarse cloth mill, magnesite, lead
and zinc mines, a small paper mill, a dry cell battery plant, and new food
processing plants.
2.04    In FY83, Nepal suffered a large balance of payments deficit of about
US$36 million compared to a surplus of about US$39 million in FY82. Histori-
cally, Nepal has had large trade deficits, which were partly offset by surpluses
from invisibles. The current account deficit, which averaged about 4% of GDP
from FY79 to FY82, has traditionally been more than matched by inflows of offi-
cial grants and concessionary loans, leading to a surplus in the overall balance
of payments. In FY83, the overall balance shifted to a deficit of about
US$36 million, reflecting a sharp decline in agricultural exports and large
increases in food related imports. Official capital inflow continued to increase
but not enough to offset the huge deficit. Gross international reserves, tradi-
tionally maintained at relatively high levels in Nepal, declined to the equiv-
alent of four months' imports by the end of FY/83. jJ Over the last five years,
the external public debt, including credit from the IMF, rose from 7% of GDP to
an estimated 12%. As virtually all loans have been concessional, debt service
payments, including payments to the IMF, have remained small in relation to
exports of goods and services, rising from 4Z in FY79 to an estimated 7% in FY83.
2.05    Nepal has made several changes in its exchanRe rate system.  Prior to
1978, an Exporters Exchange Entitlement Scheme (EEE) was operational which
allowed the trading of foreign exchange entitlements gj resulting in premiums of
about 30-40Z above the official exchange rate. In March, 1978 the EEE scheme was
replaced by a dual exchange rate whereby exporters received NRs 16 for each
dollar of export earnings compared to the official rate of NRs 12:US$1.00. In
September 1981, this dual exchange rate system was unified at NRs 13:US$1.00;
in addition, the Nepalese Rupee was pegged to the Indian Rupee at the fixed rate
A] NRB estimates its reserves to have further declined to about three months
of imports in December, 1983.
.ai Provided to exporters to third countries (other than India).



-4-
of NRs 1.45:IRs 1.00. In December 1982, the Nepalese Rupee1 depreciated against
the US Dollar by about 8% to NRa 14.00:US$1.00. In June 1983, the duas peg
arrangement was replaced with a trade-weighted basket peg with the US Dollar as
the intervention currency. The current exchange rate is NRs 17.3:US$1.00.
B. Industrial Sector
Industrial Structure
2.06    About 70% of industrial value-added comes from formal manufacturing, and
mainly from public sector enterprises, producing construction materials, tex-
tiles, footwear, processed food and some simple assembly items. The other 30%
comes from mainly rural, household-level, cottage and small industries. Avail-
able data indicate that the formal private sector constitutes approximately 3,600
manufacturing establishments employing over 60,000 workers. About 75% are class-
ified as small-scale establishments, jj employing on average about 10 workers,
and fixed assets of about Rs 500,000. Industrial productivity is low, partly
due to the labor intensity of most processes, coupled with shortages of raw
material, spare parts and technical and managerial know-how. These private
sector enterprises are predominantly in agro-processing, furniture manufacturing,
printing, and brick/tile processing. The Sixth Plan emphasizes greater par-
ticipation of the private sector and the development of other industrial products
such as pharmaceuticals, concrete blocks, light metal products and agricultural
implements.
Export Patterns
2.07    Nepal's merchandise exports in the period FY76 to FY82 grew at an average
of about 3% in nominal terms; the highest exports were achieved in FYB1, when
exports totalled Rs 1.6 billion (US$134 million equivalent) which was an increase
of 40% over FY80. However, exports decreased by 7Z in FY82 to Rs 1.5 billion,
due to market difficulties for most of Nepal's exports as well as difficulties
with input supply. Exports have remained a small portion of GDP, and declined
slightly from 6.8% in FY76 to 4.8% in FY82. Sales to India still account for the
bulk of Nepal's exports. India's share declined from about 84% in FY75 to about
45% in FY80, but increased to about 66% in FY82 due to an overall decline in
exports to other countries and a 75% increase in food, live animal, and crude
material exports to India.
2.08    Although total merchandise exports showed a fluctuating and low average
growth, manufactured exports grew at a higher rate of 14% p.a. reaching Rs 282.5
million (US$21.7 million) in FY82. Consequently, the proportion of manufactured
exports to total merchandise exports grow from 11% in FY76 to 19% in FY82 and was
/j Small : Rs 500,000 to Rs 2.0 million fixed assets
Medium: Rs 2 million to Rs Rs 10 million fixed assets
Large : Above Rs 10 million



-5-
as high as 30Z in FY80. Three product groups account for the bulk of manufac-
tured exports: leather, handicrafts and carpets. These products were also
exported to countries other than India. IDA's Small and Cottage Industries
Project is focusing on the development of handicrafts and carpets, and the
proposed IDP contains major elements to promote exports of leather and leather
goods.
2.09    Leather Subsector.  The leather subsector accounts for 10% of industrial
output; in recent years the leather group has accounted for 27% to 47% of
manufactured exports, with fluctuations reflecting changes in world leather
market. Due to its use of local raw materials, labor intensity and
export-orientation, the leather group plays an important role in Nepal's
industrial output and exports. While the subsector has been affected by world
recession, there are reasonable prospects that the industry will recover and
regain its importance in exports. The structure, composition, and performance of
the industry is discussed in Annex 1.
2.10    In FY80 leather exports reached a peak of Rs 198.7 million
(US$14.2 million), with the dominant group being wet-blue goatskins (Annex 1,
Table 2). From a base of Rs 55.1 million in FY77 leather export earnings, grew
at 55% per annum in nominal prices over FY77-FY79, and volume grew at 40% p.a.
During this period, exports of hide leather, mainly buffalo sole leather, grew
most rapidly, but goatskin leather exports still represented about 90% of
exports. Due to the prolonged recession, particularly for consumer fashion goods
such as kid glove leather, the value of Nepal's leather exports declined by 50%
in FY81; this trend continued in FY83 as exports dropped to Rs 49 million, with
the goatskin sector being particularly hard hit.
2.11    The demand for all types of footwear in Nepal is currently estimated at
1.3 million pairs p.a. (Annex 1, Table 1); about 20% is met by domestic produc-
tion of leather footwear, 20% is imported from India, while the remainder is
either met by imports of other types of footwear or is left unsatisfied. Thus
there is significant scope for import substitution and local value added in
leather footwear manufacture.
2.12    Recognizing the present and potential role of the leather subsector in
Nepal's industrial output and exports, IDA financed a subsector study jj which
formulated ar integrated development program for the leather industry, a portion
of which is included in the proposed project (Chapters 3 and 5). The study also
provided detailed industry data and analysis. V/  Under the proposed IDP, a
leather development program would be financed to improve the subsector's
efficiency and expand its capacity to collect and process leather for exports.
j/ Tropical Products Institute/Industrial Services Center, Leather and Leather
Products Subsector Study March 1981.
j/ The Leather Sector; Mission Working Paper Numbers 1-3,, April 1983 (Project
File).



-6-
Industrial Policy
2.13    In 1981, HNG adopted a new Industrial Policy which provides for a greater
participation of the private sector in industry including private foreign invest-
ments and joint ventures; compared to previous policy statements, the new
Industrial Policy also provides clearer definitions of industry groups and
clarifies institutional arrangements for licensing and registration. To help
implement this policy, HMG promulgated two Acts - the Industrial Enterprises Act
(IEA) and the Foreign Investment and Technology Act (FITA). jj These Acts
provide fiscal and monetary incentives to private industry. These include:
income tax holidays, sales tax and excise duty exemptions; provisions for
repatriation of profits and dividends by foreign investors; and some simplifica-
tion of licensing and documentation procedures. The Industrial Promotion Board,
headed by the Minister for Industry and Commerce, continues to coordinate and
monitor the industrial development policy with the Department of Industries
acting as the Board's Secretariat. The Director General of the Department of
Industries coordinates a separate committee, consisting of high-level officers of
various ministries, whose main function is to design operating rules and proce-
dures and to ensure the efficient implementation of the services and facilities
provided under the Acts. HMG has initiated the process of formulating these
rules and procedures and has recently announced additional incentives such as
duty drawback and tax rebate on export profits to promote exports. These new
schemes could assist in correcting the anti-export bias present in other
measure..
2.14     While HMG through the IEA and FITA, has provided for an overall
framework to implement its industrial policy, much more needs to be done in the
development of the rules and procedures to ensure effective implementation. It
is important also to reevaluate policy alternatives in relation to their impact
on HNGEs revenues and resources and on private sector investments and exports.
Given the physical constraints and undeveloped state of industry in Nepal, the
package of incentives needs to be redefined and focused to effectively promote
efficient import-substitution and exports; under the IDP, technical assistance
would be provided to re-examine Nepal's industrial and export-incentives
(para. 3.08). To complement the incentive package, the IDP would also provide
adequate credit facilities to industry (paras. 3.02 - 3.08) as well as technical
assistance to promote and improve operations of specific subsectors with poten-
tial, including light engineering (para. 3.09), tourism (para. 3.10) and
leather/leather goods (para. 3.11).
J A more detailed discussion of the provisions of these Acts is contained in
Chapter 5 of the Bank's latest economic report, No. 4663 dated October 14,
1983.



-7-
Industrial Finance
2.15      Nepal's organized financial sector consists of:  two commercial banks;
two specialized financial institutions, one for agriculture and one for industry;
and a provident fund corporation and an insurance company. The two commercial
banks jJ (Nepal Bank Ltd. and Rastriya Banijya Bank) dominate the financial
sector, accounting for 75% of total assets and virtually all deposits. Deposits
of the commercial banks showed a high growth rate of about 22Z over FY78-FY83,
reaching Rs 5.6 billion or 16% of GDP. Over 45% of deposits have been in
maturities of 2 years and longer which provides a reasonably stable deposit base.
Commercial banks have been the major source of working capital to industry while
NIDC has been the primary source of term credit for fixed investments, although
commercial banks have responded well under the CSI project, increasing term
financing for cottage and small industry.
2.16    Commercial banks are mandated to finance priority sectors (agriculture,
cottage and village industries, services) to the extent of 7% of total deposits.
While commercial banks have improved their financing for cottage industry, they
are still conservative aud reluctant to make term loans on the basis of project
evaluation rather than collateral. Commercial banks still have limited exposure
to and expertise in industrial lending, particularly for term loans to larger
firms.  As recommended by IDA, HME recen ly abolished the registration fee on
collateral for industrial loans by the commercial banks, which had discouraged
industrial borrowings. In line with HMG's Industrial Policy of 1982, appropriate
measures should be taken to: promote co-financing schemes between financial
institutions which would help meet NIDC's local currency requirements, and
encourage commercial banks to lend to industries without relying on guarantees of
HMC, NRB or NIDC. These should include allowing financing institutions to share
collaterals jointly and allowing registration of second mortgages. (para. 3.02).
2.17    Interest Rates and Inflation.  Annex 2 shows the deposit and lending rate
structure in Nepal. Lending rates range from 11% to 17% depending on the purpose
of the loans and size of borrowers. These rates have been effective since
June 15, 1983, and reflect an acrosc-the-board increase of 1% from prior rates.
NIDC's interest retes for term loans to industry are 12% for fixed investment and
15% for working capital and these would be applicable under the IDP and consis-
tent with rates charged by the commercial banks. In the period FY79 to FY83,
inflation in Nepal averaged about 10%. Current projections of Nepal's inflation
are in the range of 6% to 9Z p.a. for FY84 to FY89. Thus, present lending rates
are expected to remain positive in real terms.
2.18    Recent developments in the financial sector include the initiatives to
allow branches of foreign banks, establishment of a privately owned commercial
bank, studies on export credit and export guarantees. These moves are consistent
jj Nepal Bank, Ltd. (NBL) and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) are owned by EMC to
the extent of 51% and 100% respectively.



-8-
with HMG's continuing efforts to improve resource mobilization, foreign trade
services, and the overall efficiency of financial institutions.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Scope and Obiectives
3.01    The proposed Industrial Development Project (IDP) in Nepal is part of
IDA's continuing effort to assist MwG in promoting private industrial investments
and in generating foreign exchange resource. The IDP would pursue industrial and
export policy initiatives, continue institution-building assistance for NIDC as
the main source of development finance for industries, and address quality and
efficiency problems in the leather group as a key export subsector. Technical
assistance under the project would:  (a) help improve formulation and implementa-
tion of industrial and export incentives; (b) improve the efficiency, and product
quality and value-added in the leather group; (c) formulate a development program
for light engineering; and (d) seek to increase foreign exchange flows from
tourism by introducing a more dynamic approach to promotion. In addition to
providing long-term funds through NIDC to finance fixed assets and working capi-
tal for the establishment and expansion of private industrial enterprises, tech-
nical assistance would build on the institutional improvements in NIDC initiated
under Credit 705-NEP. An importlexport facility under the IDP would support
EMf's policy to promote manufactured exports.
B. Credit Component
3.02    NIDC Subloans.  An IDA Credit of US$7.5 million equivalent is proposed
for the IDP of which US$5.5 million would fund NIDC subloans to small, medium and
large private 11 industrial enterprises, with a maximum subloan size of
US$1 million. These subloans will finance the foreign exchange cost of imported
goods and services; 70Z of goods locally procured representing an average foreign
exchange content of such goods; and initial working capital in the form of
imported material inputs. The new feature of the credit components is the
financing of forei2n exchange portions of working capital requirements provided
this is part of a fixed investment subloan (i.e. subloans for working capital
only would not be eligible). NIDC's working capital finance has been constrained
mainly due to resource difficulties. Short-term credit from commercial banks is
available but limited, and the banks rely excessively on fixed asset collateral,
with a bias for a few well established industrial enterprises. In some cases,
these loans are covered by NIDC guarantees instead of fixed asset collaterals;
however, this increases the cost to the borrower, since NIDC charges a 2.5Z
guarantee fee. During the preparation of the IDP, HMG abolished the registration
fee on mortgages of commercial bank loans to industry. This had made the cost of
these loans even higher. Understandings with HMG and NRB have been reached that
11 Possible subloans to Bansbari and REHCDC, under the leather development
program would be treated as an exception (para. 3.05).



-9-
appropriate measures would be taken to allow the commercial banks to accept
collaterals on joint mortgages and registration of second mortgages (para. 2.16).
While these measures and the improvements in the commercial banks project-based
lending capabilities under the Cottage and Small Industries Project Vill help
improve access to working capital, NIDC's medium- and larger-scale clients will
continue to face difficulties in securing adequate working capital finance from
the commercial banks in the short- to medium-term. Relending terms for NIDC's
working capital finance will be at the prevailing market rate for working capital
with a maximum maturity of 7 years and grace period of up to 3 years; these loans
would complement commercial bank financing and equity resources.
3.03    Import/Export Facility (IEF).  The IDP would assist in setting up an
Import/Export Facility in Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) with an initial capitalization
of US$1.5 million of which US$1.0 million would be funded by IDA under the
proposed Credit and US$0.5 million by HMG/NRB. The IEF would represent an
appropriate and timely support to HMG's export promotion policy and would con-
stitute part of IDA's continuing efforts in this area. AI The facility would
assist EMG in implementing its recently announced policy of allowing export
industries to apply directly to NRB for their foreign exchange requirements,
equal to about 15% of their export earnings. The IEF is expected to relieve
exporters of the long process of securing needed imported inputs. Without out-
side assistance, problems with inadequate foreign exchange reserves of HMG are
likely to reduce the effectiveness of this policy; HM's reserves currently
constitute only about 3 months of imports compared to over 6 months in most
previous years. The proposed IEF would address this problem by earmarking for-
eign exchange funds to meet the needs of exporters; the exporters would "buy"
this foreign exchange with N. Rupee with working capital loans from
NIDC/commercial banks or their own resources.
3.04    The Ministry of Industry (MOI) would be the implementing agency, but
transactions under the IEF would be handled by NRB's Foreign Exchange Department.
1DI would be responsible for developing and implementing appropriate policies and
procedures for the utilization and operation of the IEF with prior consultation
with the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) and IDA.  MOI would also be responsible for the
monitoring/evaluation and reporting requirements of the IEF. The policies and
procedures to be finalized would cover the following principles and guidelines:
(a) through the IEF, NRB would make available convertible foreign exchange for
procuring imported inputs required for export production by industrial
if Under Credit 1191-NEP (Cottage and Small Industries Project), IDA has
initiated specific measures to develop and promote Nepal's exports. Under
the IDP, an Industrial Incentives Study is to be undertaken which will
examine Nepal's export policies, incentives systems, and procedures; the TA
under the IDP would also provide training in the administration of the
industrial incentive program (para. 3.08). In addition, the IDP will finance
a Tourism Promotion Study, to assist in formulating policies and programs
to increase the flow of tourist arrivals as a means of boosting foreign
exchange earnings (para. 3.10).



-1D-
enterprises in Nepal; (b) the processing of applications of exporters for alloca-
tion of convertible foreign exchange and corresponding import license in respect
to their export production, would be streamlined. The facility will be used
exclusively to fund the convertible (excluding Indian Rupees) foreign exchange 11
required to import inputs of industrial enterprises with exports in convertible
foreign exchange. Eligibility criteria for use of the facility would be that:
(a) exports would need to be evidenced by a letter of credit/firm export con-
tract; (b) foreign exchange advanced will not exceed six-months of imported input
requirements for export production; and (c) foreign exchange extended would be
net of any amounts available from other sources such as the initial working
capital loans under the proposed Credit. Z/ MDI would be encouraged to establish
a prequalified list of eligible exporters. The list would also indicate the
materials to be imported, quantity, and amount equivalent to a maximum of
six-months requirements and the estimated timetable of the proposed importation.
MOI would provide the list which would be updated regularly, to NRB and the
Ministry of Commerce. The exporters' could simultaneously file their application
to NRB, Ministry of Commerce and the commercial banks; the latter would open the
L/C's and probably provide the working capital financing.
3.05    IDA's portion would be disbursed in two tranches of US$500,000 each; as a
condition of the first tranche, NG/NRB would be required to meet its US$500,000
contribution to the IEF; the second tranche would be disbursed upon satisfactory
review and approval by IDA of the utilization of the first tranche in accordance
with agreed eligibility criteria and operating procedures. MOI would prepare
progress reports on the utilization and replenishment of the IEF for IDA's review
and comments. During negotiations, agreement was reached that HMG/NRB will
ensure that the funds are replenished to ensure availability of foreign exchange
to exporters under the IEF. NRB would transfer foreign exchange funds to the IEF
equivalent to US$100,000 each time there is a disbursement out of the IEF in the
equivalent amount. IDAWs US$1.0 million contribution would be available to the
IEF for the first two years of the total NIDC's commitment period of four years.
At the beginning of the third year of NIDC's commitment period, the IDA contribu-
tion to the IEF would become available for financing eligible NIDC subloans. By
this time, it is expected that HMG/NRB would be in a position to substitute IDAWs
contribution with its own funds. HMG through NRB will on-lend the US$1.0 million
of IDA funds in the IEF to NIDC for its subloans to private enterprises; however,
NIDC would emphasize on-lending to export-oriented industries. Actual NIDC
utilization is expected over four years from the date funds are available to
NIDC, which should provide sufficient time for HM/NRB to plan for the periodic
XJ Based on the total merchandise exports in convertible foreign exchange for
FY82, a fund of US$1.5 million would meet about 2-1/2 months of the foreign
exchange requirements of exporters estimated at about an average of 15Z of
the value of exports.
VI  These would meet part of the initial foreign exchange requirements only and
HMG/NRB would fund any succeeding and recurring foreign exchange needs out of
its ovu funds as is the normal procedure or out of the IEF for exporters.



-11-
replenishment of IDA's portion in the IEF with its own foreign exchange funds.
For NIDC, this would mean a total commitment and disbursement period of four and
six years respectively. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the objec-
tives, policies, eligibility criteria and proposed operational procedures for the
Import-Export Facility as well as HMG/NRB assurance that the IEF would be main-
tained as a permanent revolving facility for exporters.
3.06    Leather Subproiects.  In preparing this project, special attention was
given to the leather subsector since it is export-oriented and labor intensive,
uses local raw materials, and offers scope for expanding domestic processing and
improving competitiveness in the export market. A leather subsector study was
prepared by Tropical Products Institute (TPI) and financed by IDA which iden-
tified two important subprojects. These would involve: (a) the upgrading and
expansion of the hide collection system of Raw Hide Collection and Development
Corporation (RHCDC); and (b) balancing and rehabilitation of the tannery section
of Bansbari Leather and Shoe Factory (Bansbari) as well as expansion and modern-
ization of its footwear section (paras. 5.05-5.09). RHCDC and Bausbari with the
assistance of LICC, would finalize the feasibility reports for NIDC's appraisal
and financing would be available under the proposed Credit through the NIDC
subloan component. As in other subloans under the Credit, NIDC's decision would
be subject to IDA's review and approval. Since RHCDC and Bansbari are public
sector enterprises, whereas NIDC's financing is normally limited to private
sector enterprises, agreement was reached during negotiations that NIDC's financ-
ing of these subprojects would be arranged possibly as exceptions in view of
EM's repayment guarantee. Standard NIDC terms and conditions would apply except
for the following arrangements: (a) repayment of NIDC subloans to RHCDC and
Bansbari would be guaranteed by HMG; and (b) upto 30% of eligible expenditures of
the approved subprojects could be financed out of the IDA Credit in the form of
H1Gfs equity in RHCDC and Bansbari. j/ Recent estimates indicate the following
possible utilization out of the proposed credit: US$350,000 as subloan and
US$150,000 as equity for RHCDC and US$950,000 as subloan and US$400,000 as equity
for Bansbari. Financing of both projects would amount to Us$1.85 million or 29%
of the proposed NIDC subloan component.
C. Technical Assistance Component
3.07    Industrial and Export Incentives.  Nepal's new Industrial Enterprises
Act (IEA) and Foreign Investment and Technology Act (FITA), emphasize private
industrial investment with the objectives of export promotion and efficient
import substitution, particularly in labor-intensive enterprises with strong
employment impact. Within the overall objectives of its current five-year
development plan, HIr has also adopted a Special Program for Industry for
FY83-FY85. Projects have been identified for establishment, where possible, with
jj  IDA and NIDC would disburse the proceeds of the Credit under the usual dis-
bursement procedures, as adopted under IDA Credit 705-NEP.



-12-
private sector participation jj; HMG also, plans to achieve fuller capacity
utilization in existing firms, and rehabilitate potentially viable industries
which are operating at low levels due to management problems, inadequate
infrastructure, or shortages of imported raw materials. HM is prepared to
assist domestic industries with appropriate monetary and fiscal incentives par-
ticularly those under the Special Program. While taking actions to achieve
objectives under the Special Program, HMG remains concerned that the existing
incentive measures have so far had little effect on private industrial investment
and exports. There is a strong preference among investors for trade, real estate
and construction which yield more rapid and attractive returns than industrial
projects and especially export projects. Mission analysis indicates that the
problems in the present industrial and export incentives include that: (a) many
policy measures outlined in the Acts have either not been translated into opera-
tional regulations, or have been interpretted conservatively, thus undermining
confidence of present and potential entrepreneurs; (b) incentives for exporters
are inferior to those provided under the previous dual e=change rate system,
which provided exporters a highly attractive exchange rate for third country
exports; and (c) multiple categories with differential incentives to industries
of different sizes and locations were incorporated, which has made implementation
of these policy measures cumbersome. To help address these issues, the IDP would
finance a study to: review the existing package of industrial incentives and
analyze its impact on industry; recommend more effective industrial incentives;
and devise measures to improve institutional arrangements and procedures and
provide necessary training for effective implementation. HME's Department of
Industries will execute the study involving consultancy assistance and manpower
training at a cost of about US$100,000. The terms-of-reference for this study,
which have been discussed and agreed with HMG, were confirmed during nego-
tiations.
3.08    The Light Engineering Subsector accounts for about 5X of industrial
employment and 3% of value-added, which is low given the importance of the sub-
sector for industrial development. Import substitution prospects are reasonable,
as indicated by the findings of an IDA-financed study on electrical goods and
accessories. .j Some simple equipment, including household stoves, agricultural
implements, and consumer goods could be made by labor-intensive medium-scale
1/ In industries such as paper, sugar, food processing, textiles, shoes, dry
cell batteries, cement, brick and tile, metal pipe, electrical goods, zinc,
leather, gelatin and beer manufacturing. Sector studies have been prepared
under IDA assistance in the leather and electrical accessories subsectors.
21 In November 1982, Kirloskar Consultants (India) and ISC completed the Elec-
trical Goods and Accessories Subsector Study, financed under TA Credit 659;
the study indicates that of 11 product groups, 9 could be manufactured in
Nepal, viz. distribution transformers, light bulbs, electric fans and motors
power capacitors, aluminum ACSR rods, energy meters, electrical components,
radio receivers and wet cell batteries. Electric irons and LT insulators
were found to be unfeasible.



-13-
enterprises. The subsector consists of: small unorganized units producing
simple metal products such as handtools, utensils, construction hardwares, metal
containers and crafts; general engineering workshops which fabricate agricultural
implements, water turbines, suspension bridges, roof trusses and other metal
products; engine repair workshops; and foundries. There are five training
institutes and centers, but there is much underutilized capacity, inadequate raw
materials, shortage of skilled manpower, lack of up-to-date equipment and poor
product quality and design. The IDP would finance a study of the light engineer-
ing subsector with the objective of formulating a development strategy. The
study would: review the status of the industry and policies affecting the sec-
tor, identifying major constraints; identify potentially viable product groups,
and required ancillary services, and activities possibly assisted by foreign
technical partners indicating the relative priorities of such products and serv-
ices; assess which incentives would be needed to promote efficient import sub-
stitution activities; and specify institutional support needs, including credit,
manpower development, and technical services. ISC will execute the study, with
external consultancy at a cost of about US$50,000. The terms-of-reference have
been discussed and agreed with H)G and ISC, and confirmed during negotiations.
3.09    Tourism Promotion.  In FY83 the tourism sector generated about Rs 950
million (US$67 million) in foreign exchange receipts, increasing by IlZ from FY82
compared to a 28X increase in the previous year. The receipts in convertible
currencies (i.e. net of receipts in Indian rupees) decreased from Rs 617 million
in FY82 to Rs 494 million FY83. Since FY79, the total number of tourist arrivals
has remained at about 160,000 while the proportion of non-Indian tourists
declined from 77% in FY79 to 70% in FY81. Investments in tourism-related
projects, notably hotels, increased in anticipation of growth in tourist
arrivals, which did not materialize. As a consequence, occupancy rates have been
very low, averaging about 36% in FY81, causing serious financial difficulties in
many hotels; this is reflected in NIDC's increasing arrears from hotels/tourism
projects. Given the underutilization of hotel capacity and relatively adequate
state of infrastructure services for the sector, the immediate need is to
increase the flow of visitors by a strengthened promotion and marketing program
and by improving air access to Nepal. Recently, KMG has taken a number of
measures to improve air access, including a more liberal aviation policy. j/ The
IDP would finance a Tourism Promotion Study which would: analyze the major
factors causing slow growth in tourist arrivals; review and assess the adequacy
of air passenger services; recommend specific measures to promote an expanded
tourist flow; and outline a program for tourism marketing, with estimated financ-
ing requirements. Consultancy services would be provided at a cost of about
US$50,000. The terms-of-reference for this study, which have been discussed and
agreed with the Secretary of Tourism and Chairman of RNAC, were confirmed during
negotiations.
Id Rights have been granted to bi-weekly chartered flights to a European
operator; Royal Nepalese Airlines Company (RNAC) has expanded its routes
including most recently Karachi and Hong Kong and plans to service Singapore,
Japan, and China.



-14-
3.10    TA for the Leather Group.  Since 1978, the leather industry has received
some technical assistance support, mainly from UNIDO; one private Nepalese com-
pany and Bansbari have received technical assistance from private foreign firms,
mainly from Germany. Having screened the range of technical assistance com-
ponents presented by the TPI/ISC study, the IDP vould provide a total of
US$550,000 for consultancy and advisory services, training and logistical support
to LICC, the implementing agency, and to the individual companies. The details
of the technical assistance program for the leather sector under the IDP are
discussed in Chapter V.
3.11    NIDC Technical Assistance.  NIDC has entered into an agreement with the
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI) to implement an
institutional assistance program, which would be funded by KfW, one of NIDC's
major creditors. Ihis program would involve: deputation of senior ICICI staff
to NIDC to work closely with NIDC counterparts, focusing on management informa-
tion, loan recovery, market analysis, systems for project evaluation and monitor-
ing, problem project treatment and financial planning. A short-term training
program on specific topics would also be organized as part of the program in
Nepal; selected NIDC staff would be provided with on-the-job training at ICICI's
offices in Bombay.
3.12    To complement ICICI's institutional assistance program, the IDP would
provide US$50,000 for consultancy services to develop and assist in conducting a
"projects course" and technical and entrepreneurial development workshops in
NIDC; the projects course would initially be opened to NIDC's operating staff
although for succeeding courses, plans include accommodating the staff of other
financial institutions and other relevant ministries such as department of
industries, ISC, and the Planning Commission. The course is expected to provide
practical tools on project preparation, evaluation, and implementation using
Nepalese case studies to be prepared by NIDC with the assistance of a consultant.
The consultant will also assist to initiate a workshop for NIDC's clients in
project financing, implementation, and management including specific NIDC proce-
dures on loan disbursements. When implemented, the above training strategy
should lead to improviug the quality of industrial projects undertaken in Nepal.
3.13    An amount of US$35,000 is allocated to fund the foreign exchange cost of
"on the job" training of selected NIDC staff; this training would be undertaken
with other development finance companies (DPCs) experienced in follow-up
activities and rehabilitation of problem projects, (para. 4.11). This would be
important support to NIDC's new Special Cell which handles the increasing numbers
of problem projects.



-15-
D. Summary Components and Costs
3.14    An IDA Credit of US$7.5 million is proposed for an Industrial Development
Project in Nepal with the following components:
I.  Credit Components                                               (US$ 000)
A. NIDC Subloans:                                                 5,500
B.  Import/Export Facility                                        1.000
Sub-Total                                                     6.500
II. Technical Assistance
A.  Industrial Incentives Study                                     100
B.  Light Engineering Study                                          50
C.  Tourism Promotion Study                                          50
D.  TA Program for Leather Sector                                   550
E.  NIDC Technical Assistance                                        85
F.  Contingencies                                                   165
Sub-Total                                                     1.000
Total Credit                                               US$7,500
The total project cost is estimated at US$ 12.0 million equivalent broken-down
into US$ 7.5 million from IDA Credit (68Z), US$ 2.8 million from subproject
sponsors (27Z) and US$ 1.7 million from HMG/NRB (5Z).
IV. NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
A. Institutional Aspects
4.01    The first IDA Credit line to NIDC was approved on May 3, 1977, became
effective on February 17 1978, and was committed fully by March 31, 1982; as of
October 31, 1984, disbursements amounted to US$3.4 million or 85x. The implemen-
tation of this credit encountered some problems, including: inadequate domestic
resources for NIDC to implement some of its subprojects; institutional weaknesses
in NIDC's financial planning and reporting; frequent changes in top management;
and inadequate subproject supervision in the early stages of implementation,
causing slow utilization of the Credit. Principally due to the inadequate provi-
sion of domestic resources by EB)INRB for NIDC's projects, Credit 705-NEP was
informally suspended j/ for about 14 months (July 15, 1980, to September 9,
1981). With the assistance of HME and IDA, NIDC has improved operations sig-
nificantly and has taken appropriate actions to upgrade its performance. NIDC
has issued debentures in local currency and increased its equity; quarterly
XJ  It was agreed IDA would not authorize new subloan requests from NIDC.



-16-
management information reports jj are prepared; management is monitoring opera-
tions closely, particularly disbursements and collections. Mr. R. N. Dhungel,
NIDC's General Manager since 1981, has initiated important changes in NIDC's
policies and organization. These include: diversifying its portfolio by promot-
ing industries other than tourism/hotel projects and certain agro-based projects;
amending NIDC's charter to strengthen its legal powers against defaulting
clients; introducing intensive case by case follow-up of clients in arrears, and
establishing a special cell for problem projects; and ensuring coordination and
assistance from zonal and district administrators in NIDC's collection efforts.
Also, NIDC recently has made an arrangement with ICICI, the strongest development
bank in India, in which selected NIDC staff will receive on-the-job training at
ICICI in project appraisal, supervision and accounting systems and ICICI staff
will provide on-the-job training for NIDC staff in Kathmandu. These aspects have
been incorporated in NIDC's draft Statement of Operational and Financial Policies
and its Strategy Statement for FY85-FY88. The Statements and related institu-
tional upgrading measures were confirmed during negotiations, and approval by
NIDC's Board would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 8.02).
4.02    Board and Management. NIDC was established in 1959, under a special Act,
to take over the functions of an Industrial Development Centre which had been
established in 1957 under Nepal's First Five-Year Plan (FY56-FY61); about 95% of
NIDC's shares are owned by the HMG and the remaining 5% by NRB. The Act provides
for eight members on NIDC's Board of Directors, including a chairman and a
general manager appointed by llMG, and two members representing private trade and
industry. As of end FY84, three members, including the Chairman, are from the
Ministries of Finance aud Industry; one member represents NRB; and two represent
Nepal's chambers of commerce and industry and the private sector. NIDC's general
manager is also the Board's Secretary and recently, NIDC's two deputy general
managers have been invited to attend Board meetings; this move is extremely
useful as it promotes communication between management and the Board.  Also, the
chairman of ISC was a permanent invitee to NIDC's Board, to provide policy advice
and ensure coordination between ISC's project promotion and NIDC's lending.
NIDC's Act also allows the nomination of up to four Board Advisors with the
approval of HMG. Under the IDP, NIDC plans to invite an IDA representative to
some of the meetings of its Board particularly when major institutional and
policy matters are involved.
4.03    During the implementation of InA's first credit line to NIDC (Credit
705-NEP), one major concern has been the frequent changes of NIDC's General
Manager. However, there has been an improvement in the tenure of the last two
General Managers. NIDC's current General Manager, Mr. R.N. Dhungel, was
appointed in November 1981 for an initial tenure of four years which is adequate;
he is the first appointee from within the organization; he is experienced in
development banking and knows the organization well. Mr. Dhungel continues to
initiate changes in NIDC's organization, policies, and procedures which are
appropriate and contribute to improvements in NIDC's operations.
1/ Progress reports are submitted to ID& which would continue under the proposed
Credit.



-17-
4.04    Organization and Staffins.  NIDC s organization (Annex 5) is composed of
ten basic divisions and four regional offices; two divisions (internal audit and
research/planning) report directly to the General Manager; three divisions and
regional offices report to a Deputy General Manager for Operations; another
Deputy General Manager for Ac-inistration supervises four divisions.  In the last
five years, NIDC's organization has evolved in response to its growing level of
operations and the need to address major issues. Divisions were split to recog-
nize the growing importance of project development and promotion, project
monitoring and follow-up, financial planning, and training. NIDC has been able
to maintain a reasonably low turnover (less than 10X annually) of professional
staff which numbered 100 as of the end of FY84. NIDC continues to emphasize
training through in-house trainiL- courses and selected short-term orientation
courses and few short-term foreign training courses. The IDP would provide
technical assistance funds to develop a projects course and technical workshops
in NIDC as well as to finance foreign training in supervision, particularly of
problem projects (paras. 3.12, 3.13).
B. Policies and Stratezies
4.05    Lending Policies.  NIDC's Investment and Operational Policies are guided
by its Act, with attention given to maintaining H1's industrial policies and
priorities. A draft of NIDC's updated Statement of these policies is shown in
Annex 3, which was discussed and confirmed during negotiations; approval by
NIDC's Board would be a condition of effectiveness. This Statement provides a
satisfactory framework for NIDC to extend financial assistance to industrial
enterprises in Nepal; requirements of cottage and small industries are provided
by the commercials banks, principally through IDA's Credit 1191-NEP (Cottage and
Small Industry Project). NIDC's Policy Statement provides for a minimum finan-
cial assistance of Rs 50,000 and a maximum amount equal to 25% of its networth
(currently about Rs 53.0 million or US$3.1 million) or 70% of the total project
cost whichever is lower. NIDC is also required to maintain a maximum debt:equity
ratio of 5:1. For its first IDA credit line (Credit 705-NEP), the maximum sub-
loan was US$1.0 million to ensure financing of a range of subprojects
(para. 6.04). Under the IDP, the limit would be increased to US$1.5 million;
this reflects the increasing costs of projects, but should still cover a
reasonable range of medium and large subprojects; the new limit is 23Z of the
subloan component compared to 25% in NIDC's first credit line. NIDC occasionally
receives larger applications which normally are treated as special projects for
which HMG or bilateral financing is available and relent through NIDC. Nonethe-
less, the IDA Credit would be available for consortium financing arrangements, to
reduce NIDC's financial exposure and risks, and to encourage equity involvement
by foreign technical partners involved in these larger projects.
4.06    Operating Strategy.  NIDC's draft Strategy Statement for FY85-FY88 is
shown as Annex 4. This Statement was discussed and agreed during negotiations
and approval by NIDC's Board of Directors would be a condition of Credit effec-
tiveness. This Statement has been formulated not only to achieve improvements in
NIDC's operations and procedures but also to expand and improve its promotional
and advisory assistance for clients and prospective entrepreneurs in Nepal. The
main features include that: NIDC (a) would not financc new hotel projects in the



-18-
Kathmandu area in view of its high exposure (54X of total portfolio) in the
hotel/tourism sector; (b) NIDC would emphasize financing of export-oriented
projects; (c) would improve its standards and procedures for subproject appraisal
and implementation, with increased attention to providing technical assistance to
its clients; (d) NIDC would implement the institutional development program
agreed with ICICI; and (e) NIDC would intensify its follow-up and collection
efforts. Collection targets have been set so that NIDC's debt service coverage
ratio is at least 1.1 times (paras. 4.11).
4.07    NIDC Act.  Since NIDC's inception, its Act has been periodically amended;
two major amendments were approved in 1984. The first amendment adds a specific
provision which would enable NIDC to share the collaterals on its loans with
other persons or institutions; this would help promote co-financing which has
been possible only with NIDC's guarantees which increase rather than reduce
NIDC's exposure to a given subproject and increase the cost to industrial bor-
rowers (para. 3.02). The second amendment refers to Section 21 of its Act which
empowers NIDC to take possession of and sell mortgaged assets upon defaults of
its clients; this method of loans recovery is protracted. Consequently, the
assets remain unmaintained, resulting in deterioration in condition and value,
thus threatening the eventual sale and adequate recovery. NIDC's amendment would
provide it the option to manage or have managed the foreclosed properties until
the assets are sold. This amendment is important, since it would improve NIDC's
collection, as well as encourage higher utilization of productive assets. As
agreed during negotiations, changes in NIDC's Act, NIDC's Policy Statement and
Strategy Statement would be subject to prior approval by IDA.
C. Standards and Procedures
4.08    Promotion.  Since 1974, when the Industrial Services Center (ISC) was
established as a spin-off of NIDC's Industrial Planning and Feasibility Division,
project identification and preparation has been the primary responsibility of
ISC. NIDC and other organizations hire ISC to prepare feasibility studies on
potential projects; such feasibility studies have served as the main source of
subprojects financed by NIDC. This arrangement has worked reasonably well.
Through its Project Development and Promotion Division (PDPD), NIDC regularly
advertises potentially feasible projects; regional industrial tours in collabora-
tion with the chambers of commerce and industry also are undertaken. Interested
entrepreneurs are provided with more detailed project profiles. In view of the
limited supply of experienced entrepreneurs in Nepal, NIDC needs to do more than
match potential entrepreneurs with viable subprojects; NIDC needs to take active
measures to capture and sustain an entrepreneur's interest and reinforce his
capabilities. With initial assistance from ICICI, NIDC plans to conduct
workshops for prospective entrepreneurs and for those for which financial assis-
tance have been approved.
4.09    Appraisal.  Project appraisal is undertaken by project teams which
provide interaction among analysts of different disciplines. Under Credit
705-NEP, NIDC's appraisal standards were improved and are now of reasonable
quality. For medium and large projects, NIDC calculates economic as well as
financial rates of return; these will continue to be required under the IDP. The



-19-
problems in many of NIDC's subprojects are rooted in the difficult environment,
and the inexperience and vasilating commitment of entrepreneurs. These difficul-
ties have led to slow project implementation, with related cost overruns and
financing squeezes. As part of its strategy to improve appraisal standards and
quality of projects financed, NIDC will give greater attention to: (a) getting
feedback on project implementation, particularly on past due accounts;
(b) analyzing performance and problems in key subsectors as a basis for judging
new investments; (c) ensuring clients' compliance to pre-establishment require-
ments as formulated by NIDC during appraisal; and (d) arranging joint financing
with commercial banks and higher equity contributions, to reduce NIDC's exposure.
These steps should lead to more accurate estimates on project costs and implemen-
tation schedules. ICICI will assist in implementing these steps.
4.10    Implementation/Disbursement.  NIDC tends to be fairly cautious in its
loan processing, partly due to the assistance clients need in the detailed
preparation and planning their subprojects. To facilitate monitoring of project
implementation, NIDC has initiated a system of formulating a time-bound list of
activities agreed with each client after loan signing. The Project Implementa-
tion Division (PID) reviews the status of projects and prepares monthly reports
specifying next steps for NIDC including a project completion report. Loans are
disbursed by reimbursing actual capital expenditures according to an agreed
debt/equity ratio. This is appropriate since it ensures the sponsor's equity
contribution and proper application of the loan proceeds. However, NIDC's
experience shows that timely availability of equity funds is one major cause of
delay, which is further exacerbated when these delays lead to cost overruns which
can affect project viability. NIDC's loan conditions with regard to the equity
aspects are reasonable, although problems with equity availability in later
phases of implementation are difficult for NIDC to control. As a policy, if
initial utilization of subloans is not made within three months from the date of
approval letter, NIDC provides for the cancellation of the subloan. However,
in practice, many subloans remain committed but unutilized for longer periods.
This ties up large amounts of funds for projects which may not be implemented
and need to be reappraised. For these subloans, NIDC should be prepared to
exercise its remedial options firmly during the implementation stage. These
include suspension or cancellation of loans and reappraisal of projects A1 which
is costly and difficult but necessary to ensure viability and prevention of
future problems.
4.11    Follow-up/Collections.  NIDC would seek to improve its follow up and
collection performance maintaining: an annual debt service coverage ratio g/
(DSCR) of at least 1.1; and total arrears in principal and interest not exceeding
|j These should be referred back to the Project Analysis Division (PAD).
21  Defined as net profit after taxes plus total cash collection of principal
Plus total interest expensed Plus non-cash charges less uncollected interest
income divided by total interest expenses Dlus total principal payments on
NIDC's debts.



-20-
the amount of unimpaired paid-in capital and reserves. These were agreed during
negotiations as part of NIDC's Strategy Statement; in addition, a condition in
the credit agreement has been made which would provide IDA the option to withhold
approval and authorization of subloans under the Credit if NIDC does not comply
with these criteria and if remedial measures which are satisfactory to IDA are
not taken. As part of its semi annual progress report, NIDC would provide IDA
its DSCR, and the amount of interest and principal in arrears, and NIDC's net-
worth. jj NIDC expects to meet these criteria through the following actions:
(a) setting quarterly collection targets based on a project-by-project review by
the Project Monitoring and kvaluation Division (PMED); (b) undertaking analysis
of problem projects by a special cell in PHED; (c) implementing a clearing arran-
gement agreed with the commercial banks and HMG's licensing department on NIDC's
defaulting clients; (d) coordinating and securing assistance from HMG's zonal and
district offices in its collection efforts; and (e) charging a penalty rate of 7%
for late payments. 21 Through its new special cell, NIDC has initiated a more
comprehensive analysis of problem projects on the basis of which NIDC will
provide assistance in helping clients improve their operations. The institu-
tional assistance program with ICICI will help address these aspects. In addi-
tion, to assist in developing NIDC's expertise in supervision and collections,
the technical assistance component of the IDP will finance the foreign exchange
cost of a two- to three-month "on the job" training of two or three selected
staff of the special cell with other DFCs with substantial experience in handling
problem projects.
4.12    Procurement.  NIDC requires a minimum of three valid quotations from
reputable suppliers; the sponsors indicate their choice and should provide satis-
factory justification considering price, dependability of supply, availability of
spare parts and after sales service, completeness of the offer, performance
guarantee, and arrangements for installation and training where necessary.  Out-
side consultants are used for complex projects although NIDC staff are competent
to advise clients on most projects, particularly in major subsectors financed by
NIDC, e.g. oil, rice and flour mills. India remains the largest supplier of
machinery and equipment; 21 this is due largely to the level of technology used
in Nepal, price, transport cost advantage, and ease of obtaining spare parts.
Since the validity of quotation is normally for up to six months, NIDC should
focus on timely implementation to avoid price escalation, and avoid delays caused
by the need for rebidding. NIDC's procurement procedures are satisfactory and
conform to the Bank's standard practice for DFCs.
i} This could be based on proforma figures to be confirmed by NIDC's audited
financial statements (para. 4.26).
0   To encourage earlier settlement of overdues, the penalty rate is reduced to
between 4' to 6.5% if payment is made within 3 months to 24 months after
which the full 7% is applied.
0   In FY81/82, India accounted for about 43% of total imports of machinery and
transport equipment.



-21-
4.13    Manazement InformationlAccounting. With the assistance of an advisor
and IDM, NIDC has improved its management information and accounting systems.
It prepares regular operational data in a satisfactory form; its accounts are
adequately audited. An annual long-form audit report on NIDC's operations and
financial accounts would continue to be submitted to IDA not later than five
months after the end of its fiscal year.
D. Operational Performance
4.14    L2ndini Operations. A summary of NIDC's operations for FY79-FY84 is
provided in Annex 6. NIDC's operations suffered a set-back in FY80 when its
disbursements declined by 43% due to shortages in local currency resources
(para. 4.01). Since FY79, NIDC-s level of business has grown, averaging about
Rs 60-70 million per year from Rs 40-50 million p.a. in the preceding five years.
Commitments and disbursements have accelerated since FY82 after the informal
suspension of the First IDA Credit was lifted in September 1981 (para. 4.01);
there is a strong indication that project sponsors are now more active in moving
projects into implementation. This trend and level of operations are expected to
continue based on NIDC's relatively large uncommitted approvals and pipeline of
projects (para. 4.28).
4.15    Portfolio Characteristics.  Since its inception until the end of FY83,
NIDC has approved total 'inancial assistance amounting to Rs 584.6 million; .j
this is broken down into Rs 496.6 million in loans, to industrial ente2prises,
Rs 54.2 million in equity investments, and Rs 33.8 million in guarantees.
Tourism accounted for Rs 226.9 million (78 projects) or 39% while manufacturing
(including power and transportation) accounted for Rs 232.02 million (321
projects) or 61%; of the latter category, the major subsectors included food
(27Z), forest-based products (10%), mining and minerals (8.7%). Most of the
projects are new enterprises and concentrated in the central region (Katbmandu
Valley, Bagmati, Narayani, and Javiakpur areas). Tourism is a major sector in
Nepal and accounted for 54% of NIDC's outstanding portfolio with 40% in the
manufacturing sector of which 28Z was in the food industry (Annex 7). The IDP
will assist the tourism sector not through financing of additional facilities
since these are presently adequate, but through appropriate tourism promotion
(para. 3.08) to increase tourist arrivals as a means to boast foreign exchange
earnings and improve the performance of NIDC's clients in the sector.
4.16    The average loan of NIDC is Rs 1.5 million (US$95,000 equivalent).
Excluding a few very large projects, this average is much lower mostly covering
small- and medium-sized projects (upto Rs 10.0 million in fixed assets invest-
ments). Loan maturities range from 5 to 15 years, although over 50% have repay-
ment periods o' 10 years and longer. In FY81, exports of NIDC's projects are
estimated at about Rs 250 million equal to about 15% of total exports; these
/J Rs 8.74 million was disbursed to 414 cottage and village industries; NIDC
discontinued this operation from 1976 as responsibility for CSI lending has
shifted to commercial banks.



-22-
projects account for about 20Z of industrial value added. NIDC's assisted
projects have an estimated Rs 2.0 billion in assets and have directly generated
about 22,000 jobs i/ at a cost of about Rs 90,000 per job or US$5,700 per job.
4.17    Equity Investment.  As of July 15, 1984 NIDC's equity portfolio stood
at Rs 80.2 million (38% of its networth) invested in 24 companies. Ten companies
are known to be operating profitably while only four have paid dividends equiv-
alent to only 3Z of NIDC's investment; seven are operating at a loss and five are
still under construction. Rs 4.9 million are in preference shares of two com-
panies on which Rs 0.4 million in dividends have accumulated but have not yet
been received. Together with NRB, NIDC has invested Rs 1.7 million in the
Security Marketing Centre, Ltd. NIDC has controlling interests in six companies,
of which two companies 21 account for 58Z of total equity portfolio. In these
cases, NIDC is also a major creditor; although it is NIDC's policy to gradually
divest its shareholding, this would be extremely difficult, given the absence of
a securities market and poor profits of some of the projects. It is, thus,
imperative for NIDC to be extremely cautious in undertaking these dual and often
conflicting roles. In 1984, NIDC made an investment of Rs 3.0 million in common
shares and Rs 5.2 million in preferred shares of Nepal Arab Bank, Ltd. which is a
private commercial bank organized as a joint venture with Dubai Bank; NIDC is
represented in its Board which should facilitate co-financing of NIDC's sub-
projects.
4.18    Local Currency Resources.  NIDC's sources of local currency funds are
HMG in equity subscriptions, and NRB in loans debentures and some equity. As
of July 15, 1984 NIDC had a networth of Rs 213.4 million 21 equal to 41% of total
assets; loans from and debentures held by NRB were Rs 81.5 million and Rs 100.0
million respectively. These local currency resources account for 75% of NIDC's
total assets. Beginning in FY82, NIDC issued its debentures at rates of 8.5% and
9.5%; these debentures are tax-free, guaranteed by HEN and repayable on the
fifteenth year fron date of issue. To date, the only buyer is NRB; at the cur-
rent cost of 9.5%, NIDC has a gross spread of 2.5% and a net spread of less than
1.5% after deducting HMG's guarantee fee and NIDC's interest rebate.
4.19    Foreign Currency Resources.  At the end of FY84, NIDCrs outstanding
foreign currency resources stood a Rs 93.1 million equivalent or 19% of total
resources. IDA accounted for Rs 43.7 million (47%) representing disbursed
amounts of Credit 705-NEP. Outstanding KfW loans in local currency were Rs 21.8
million with an undisbursed balance of about Rs 26.0 million (US$1.5 million).
jj NIDC estimates about 110,000 more in indirect job created mainly from
hotel-related services.
3/ Nepal Livestock, Ltd. and Himal Cement in which NIDC's share is 97% and 84%
respectively.
jI Rs 190.3 million in paid-in capital and Rs 23.1 million in reserves; NIDC's
paid-in capital was increased by Rs 20.0 in FY83 and by Rs 18.5 in FY77.



-23-
The balance of Rs 27.6 million represented loans from USAID, and governments of
Denmark and India, all of which has been disbursed. KfW and IDA credit lines are
untied funds. NRB absorbs the foreign exchange risks on all NIDC foreign cur-
rency borrowings through the reimbursement of exchange losses and does not charge
a fee to NIDC or its subborrowers. The bulk of the subprojects under the
proposed Credit are expected to be small- and medium-sized projects and exchange
risk should continue to be absorbed by HMG/NRB without a fee in line with its
policy to promote private industrial investment. In addition it is proposed that
HMG directly absorb the exchange risk to avoid the cumbersome accounting in
collecting exchange losses. Agreement was reached on this modification during
negotiation and would also be reflected in the subsidiary loan agreement between
NIDC and HM.
4.20    NIDC Terms. Annex 2 shows the deposit and lending rates of commercial
banks and financial institution in Nepal. NIDC follows these rates, which are
determined in consultation with NRB. Since 1976, NIDC discontinued lending to
cottage and village industries. NIDC's lending rates are in line with those of
the commercial banks and were increased by one percent to 121 for fixed capital
and 151 for working capital effective from June 15, 1982; jj for industries
producing luxury or semi-luxury items, a uniform rate of 17% is applied. During
the commitment period of the proposed credit, inflation is projected to range
between 6% and 91 per annum and NIDC's lending rates would remain substantially
positive in real terms (para. 2.22).  The IDA funds will be onrlent to NIDC at a
rate of 7% for fixed capital and 10X for working capital, providing a spread of
4% after deducting the one percent rebate. This spread should be adequate to
cover NIDC's overhead costs and required debt provisions, as well as providing a
reasonable profit margin. The loan would be repayable in a fixed amortization
period over 18 years including a grace period of 5 years. These lending terms
were discussed and agreed during negotiations. The on-lending rates would be
reviewed annually and adjusted when necessary, to maintain a positive real lend-
ing rate and consistency with commercial bank lending rates.
4.21    Credit 705-NEP was relent to 25 subprojects, with an average loan size
of US$134,000. Ten subloans were above the free-limit of US$80,000 of which two
subloans were for US$1.0 million, the maximum amount allowed under the Credit.
IDA reviewed 40% of the subloans by number and 85% by amount. The subprojects
reviewed showed ex-ante financial rates of return of 15% and above and economic
rates of return of over 17Z. NIDC's experience on these projects has shown some
weaknesses such as slow project implementation, cost overruns, inadequate working
capital, lags in entrepreneurial interest and lack of competent management. NIDC
has adopted appropriate policies and a strategy (paras. 4.05-4.06) to address
these weaknesses. Implementatiou of these measures would be assisted under the
IDP, particularly through the technical assistance components.
3/ The increase was based upon IDA recommendations under the Nepal CSI project.
Prior to this date, NIDC rates were one percent lower for undeveloped areas
and one percent higher for specified developed areas such as Kathmandu,
Biratnagar, and Birganj.



-24-
E. Financial Performance
4.22    Profitability.  Annex 8 shows NIDCs summarized income statements for the
years ending July 15, 1980 to 1984. NIDC showed reasonable profits although it
only managed an average of 3.0% return on equity, due to a large equity base
which averaged 42% of total resources. As a result, NIDC had an accounting gross
spread on total resources of about 4.5% while its marginal gross spread on bor-
rowed funds was only 3%. Administrative and general expenses have been main-
tained at a reasonable level of 1.6% of total assets while the cost of borrowings
has increased from an average of 5.4% in FY79 to 9.0% in FY84. Under the IDP a
net spread of 4% is proposed which is reasonable and adequate to cover overhead
costs of about 1.5%, provision for bad debts of 1.0%, plus 1.5% in profit margin
before taxes.
4.23    Portfolio Quality. Annex 9 provides NIDC's collection performance and
arrears position. Its collections were lowest in FY81 with a collection ratio of
only 29% (49% in M80) which resulted in a debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) of
slightly below unity and a significant increase in arrears from Rs 39.8 million
to Rs 69.1 million. With the assistance of HMc and NIDC's concerted efforts, its
collection in FY82 and FY83 improved to Rs 48.9 million and Rs 56.7 million
respectively (twice the level of FY81), which enabled NIDC to attain a satisfac-
tory DSCR of more than 1.3 times and a higher collection ratio of 35%. However,
the amount of arrears continued to rise reaching Rs 113 million in FY84; these
arrears have been contained to less than 30Z of NIDC-s portfolio, but the per-
centage of its portfolio affected by arrears was about 75%. Although NIDC
managed to maintain a satisfactory DSCR due mainly to a substantial equity base
which was equivalent to almost double the amount of arrears at the end of FY84,
NIDC will continue to intensify its collection efforts (para. 4.11); and it has
also adopted collection targets to achieve a minimum DSCR of 1.1 times.   Con-
ditionality have been provided under the IDP for NIDC to meet minimum financial
standards on its collection performance; in the event that these are not met and
remedial measures satisfactory to IDA are not taken by NIDC within a period of
two months after having been advised by IDA, IDA would have the right to withhold
approvals and authorizations of subloans under the Credit.
4.24    Financial Position.  Annex 10 shows NIDC's summarized balance sheets for
FY80-FY84. Due to its substantial equity base, NIDC has a strong financial
position. Given the nature and stage of industry in Nepal (para. 2.07), NIDC's
capital structure is appropriate to handle its development financing activities
which are focused on smaller and new projects, and relatively inexperienced
entrepreneurs. During the five year period (FY80 to FY84), NIDC's total assets
have grown at 10% per year to Rs 525 million; its borrowings grew at a faster
rate (15.0%) than its equity (6.5%) resulting in a higher contractual debtlequity
ratio of 1.4 in FY84 compared to 1.13 in FY80. NIDC plans to raise a proportion
of debts through foreign exchange borrowings from KfW and IDA. and NIDC's local
currency debentures; however, total borrowings are expected to increase to less
than twice its equity (para. 4.29) by FY88 which is still low and well within the



-25-
maximum debt/equity ratio of 5:1 proposed under this Credit. 1/ Maintenance of
this ratio was confirmed during negotiations.
4.25    On the average about one-third of profits before taxes are appropriated
to cover potential bad debts; NIDC's accumulated provisions 2 were equivalent
to 5% of loan portfolio or 15% of its total arrears; these provisions are
reasonable, particularly considering NIDC's equity base, relatively low dividend
payout, ZJ improving collection performance and adequate collateral coverage.
4.26    Audit.  Under its first credit line, NIDC has been preparing a comprehen-
sive long-form audit of its financial and portfolio accounts. It has been the
practice for the auditor-general to subcontract NIDC's annual audit to an inde-
pendent external audit for a term of three years. NIDC's current auditor is
Sunder and Company which is reasonably well qualified. The annual audit reports
have been reviewed by IDA and found to be satisfactory, although completion of
the audit has been longer than five months from the end of fiscal year (i.e. by
December 15 of each year) as required under Credit 705-NEP. This deadline is
provides about three months from the date 41 of the General Meeting of Stock-
holders wherein the auditor's report of NIDC's annual balance sheet and accounts
is to be presented.
F. Proiected Operations
4.27    Lending Activity.  NIDC's loans grew at an average of 15% per year during
FY80 to FY84. This rate is expected to continue and its total approvals 51 are
projected to be about Rs 575 million during FY85 to FY88 (Annex 11); about 45% of
total loans are estimated to be in foreign currency based on NIDC's actual
experience. Based on NIDC's experience, commitments and disbursements would
amount to Rs 487 million and Rs 340 million respectively during the same four
11 Credit 705-NEP required the same maximum debt/equity ratio.
2/ NIDC's auditors have also certitied that its provisions for bad debts are
reasonable after a status review of each account and relevant collateral
values; NIDC properly allocates its provisions according to the status of
projects, for example, provisions for subloans under legal action are high at
40% of the outstanding arrears.
SJ This has been equivalent to less than 1% of paid-in capital; dividends in the
last five years averaged about 30% of unappropriated net profit.
Ol First Monday after September 15 (month of Aswin) as provided in Section 26 of
NIDC's Act; this short-form audit should also be submitted to IDA no later
than October 15 each year as the basis of determining NIDC's compliance of
DSCR and collection/arrears level (para. 4.23).
5/ Including possibly two leather subprojects identified under the IDP
(paras. 3.04).



-26-
year period. These estimates are reasonable considering HMG's emphasis on
private industry and NIDC's current large pipeline of projects (para. 4.28).
4.28    Pipeline.  NIDC's pipeline of projects as of the end of FY84 consists of
(a) uncommitted approvals jj of Rs 161.1 million of which Rs 99.8 million are in
foreign currency loans (US$5.8 million); and (b) projects under appraisal requir-
ing an estimated Rs 99.0 million in loans including Rs 76 million in foreign
currency (US$4.4 million). These projects are in areas such as marble/aggregate
mining, oil extraction, canvass shoes, pencil, wires/pipe manufacturing, pulp and
paper, textile spinning, sugar, brick/tile factory, engineering workshops, and
trekking lodges. NIDC's existing sources of foreign currency plus the proposed
IDA Credit would meet about two-thirds of potential requirements (para. 4.29).
4.29    Resources.  For FY84 NIDC's foreign currency resources available for
commitment amounted to about US$2.0 million representing its fourth credit line
from KfW; however, this would cover only its projected commitment in small and
medium industrial firms Z/ with fixed assets of upto Rs 10.0 million. Projected
requirements for FY85 to FY88 are estimated at US$12.0 million; the IDA Credit
component of US$6.5 million for NIDC would cover about 55% projected commitments.
However, a four year commitment period is proposed to take account of large
projects with some tied financing, and the funds to be available from the IEF
(para. 3.03) beginning in the third year of project implementation. NIDC would
need to plan for additional foreign currency resources by the end of 1986.
4.30    Projected operations show a need of about Rs 60 million in local currency
for the four years starting FY85. Existing local currency resources of NIDC are
estimated at about Rs 39 million in cash balances. During negotiations, agree-
ment was reached that HMG/NRB would make adequate funds available to NIDC for the
implementation of the Project; as provided in its Strategy Statement, NIDC will
ensure that sufficient funds are available before commitments are made. For
subloan requests under the proposed Credit, NIDC will be required to provide
information showing availability of local currency resources. This arrangement
would not only ensure that NIDC is not over-committed but would also provide a
mechanism to promote timely implementation and disbursements of subloans, and
cancellation of slow moving projects.
4.31    Financial Projections.  Annexes 12, 13, 14 show NIDC's projected income,
cashflow, and balance sheet statements for FY85 to FY88. Despite NIDC's larger
volume of business, its net income is expected to remain at about Rs 3.5 million
level representing an average of 1.6% of equity, due to an increasing proportion
of borrowings and projected higher overhead, but with an assumed fixed profit
spread. However, its DSCR would be comfortably over the minimum of 1.1
(para. 4.23) assuming NIDC meets its collection targets of Rs 80 million in FY85,
jj These are approvals awaiting signing of a loan agreement.
2.1 For a few larger projects, NIDC would either provide its guarantee as in a
pulp and paper project (Rs 50.0 million) or secure foreign exchange from HNG
which is limited and reserved for high priority projects as in a joint ven-
ture for a dry-cell battery project.



-27-
increasing to Rs 140 million in FY88. Also, NIDC's cash balances are adequate to
absorb possible shortfalls in collection and prepayment of deferred income taxes
and some dividend payments. It also would allow NIDC to establish a sinking fund
for the repayment of debentures, which is recommended once NIDC's collections
improve and actual cash balances are more than about Rs 20.0 million. NIDC is
expected to remain liquid, with its current ratio at more than 3.0 times. NIDC's
contractual debt:equity ratio is projected to reach 1.8 by FY88 which is still
low; equity would be used to finance over 502 of the total loan portfolio, and
provisions for bad debts would average about 7% of loans which is adequate.
V. LEATHER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Subsector Focus
5.01    Subsector Focus.  In recent years, IDA has intensified its subsector work
in Nepal, to help identify and address problems blocking growth in promising
export-oriented and import-substituting product groups. j/ The proposed IDP
would continue this subsector theme by focusing on the leather industry, vhich in
peak years has constituted nearly half of Nepal's manufactured exports
(para. 2.10). The IDP draws upon an Integrated Leather and Leather Goods
Development Program, which was formulated by the Tropical Products Institute
(U.K.) in association with Nepal's Industrial Services 6enter (ISC), as part of a
subsector study financed under IDA's First Technical Assistance Credit
659-NEP. Z/ Key features of the industry are discussed in Chapter 2, Annex 1,
and the Leather Sector Working Paper (Project File).
5.02    The leather program has been designed to address major constraints in the
sector: (a) for cattle and buffalo leather, inadequate collection systems of raw
materials and poor flaying and curing techniques; (b) for the poatskin leather,
difficulties in export market penetration and a limited domestic market for
processed skins; (c) for all leather producers, low quality of leather and
leather goods, due to outdated and worn-out equipment in tanning and finishing
and poor design techniques, limited market information and distribution channels.
5.03    The specific components of the proposed program embody the strategy of
focusing on hide processing, since goatskin processing has adequate installed
capacity and is not in need of investment credit; furthermore, there is already
V   Preparation for the Cottage and Small Industries Project, financed under
IDA's first TA Credit (659-NEP) included detailed subsector studies in:
woolen carpets and garments; metal crafts; cotton handloom products; forestry
products; and selected agroindustries. Other subsector and feasibility
studies have covered building materials and electrical equipment.
Z/ Leather and Leather Products Subsector Study: Nepal, in two phases, Reports
dated September 1980 and March 1981, by TPI/ISC.



-28-
in operation a reasonably efficient collection system to exploit the potential
supply of goatskins. An integrated technical assistance program to various
segments of the industry should help to reduce the vulnerability of Nepalese hide
and goatskin producers to large shifts in external demand. This would be
achieved through improving the quality of leather and leather goods for both the
export and domestic markets, and through an active export promotion component,
which should help Nepal regain market share in leather exports. Specifically,
the project provides possible financing under the NIDC subloan component
(para. 3.07) for: the expansion of the hide collection capacity of RHCDC; and
modernization of Bansbari's tannery and footwear departments. Technical assis-
tance in key aspects of leather collection, processing, and footwear manufacture,
and export promotion also would be provided.
5.04    The objectives of the leather technical assistance components are to:
assist the Government in promoting growth and upgrading the product quality in
the leather group, by improving collection, flaying, tanning and manufacturing
methods, strengthening measures to identify buyers and suitable foreign col-
laborators. The two investment projects would increase the supply and improve
the quality of hide leather and footwear products. However, with the continued
recession in the world leather market, specific allocations are not being made
for these two potential subprojects. Rather, during the early period of project
implementation, technical assistance would be provided to RHCDC and Bansbari in
finalizing the design and appropriate timing of the subprojects, determining the
required financial restructuring, and improving performance on the basis of
existing investments (paras. 5.11-5.13).
B. Leather Sector Subprojects
5.05    Bansbari Modernization Subproiect.  The Bansbari Leather and Shoe Fac-
tory, Ltd. (Bansbari), established as a public sector enterprise with Chinese aid
in 1961, has an installed capacity for processing about 300 hides a day, but is
processing about 100 hides daily due to suboptimal plant layout, some obsolete
machinery and equipment and weak demand for the relatively low quality output.
As a result, output is well below Bansbari's breakeven level. Bansbari's finan-
cial statements (Working Paper 2) show accumulated losses of Rs 9.3 million as
of July 15, 1983 against an authorized share capital of Rs 25 million, of which
Rs 24 million was paid up. The company's share capital has been diluted and new
equity infusion may be required. The Tannery Department showed a profit in FY81
as a result of a strong market for leather, as well as the dual exchange rate
system which increased the profitability of leather exports (para. 2.05). The
elimination of bonus entitlements and the unification of the exchange rate
reduced incentives to export. Recently, most of the output from the tannery
section was consumed by Bansbari's footwear and small leather goods section.
Bansbari has had some success in selling the higher quality leather originating
from grade 1 raw hides to importers in China and India, although some sales were
made at distressed prices in order to move a large backlog of accumulated inven-
tory. Bansbari's management plans to expand exports by implementing its modern-
ization programs and increasing technical and marketing collaboration tie-ups.



-29-
5.06   Bansbari's proposed modernization project jj consists of balancing, mod-
ernization and replacement investments in its tannery, and the purchase of
appropriate equipment for its footwear division. The fixed investment costs of
machinery and equipment required by Bansbari's tanning and footwear divisions are
estimated at US$850,000 (Rs 14.7 million), consisting of a soaking drum, spraying
machine, toggle dryer, staking and splitting machines, shaving machine, as well
as footwear machinery and equipment and spare parts. Working capital require-
ments are estimated at US$500,000 (Rs 8.6 million). The project would more than
double Bansbari's shoe production from 80,000 to about 180,000 pairs per
annum, 2J and would enable Bansbari to produce a wider range of footwear designs.
Currently, the company manufactures about a half dozen traditional styles of
leather shoes and children's footwear. In addition, Bansbari produces army
boots, which generate more consistent earnings, as volume orders for standard
products enable longer production runs than for custom shoes. For its tannery
department, the project would result in an effective capacity of 300 hides per
day of which about 120 hides equivalent in finished leather would be required by
the footwear division 3/ and finished leather from about 180 hides per day would
be available both for exports and for local cobblers.
5.07    Hide Collection Expansion and UpRrading.  The Raw Hide Collection and
Development Corporation, Ltd. (RHCDC) was established in 1982 as a trading
company to purchase and sell raw hides collected from various locations
throughout Nepal. The company operates from Hetauda. At the moment, RICDC
markets its hides to two customers -- Bansbari and Hetauda Leather Industry (HLI)
- which are also the principal shareholders of RECDC. RHCDC's authorized share
capital is Rs 10 million as of July 15, 1983; Bansbari had 52X and BLI had 48Z of
the paid-up capital of Rs 1.1 million. A/ RHCDC's first two years of operations
have been difficult, with losses of Rs 500,000 and Rs 1 million incurred in FY82
and FY83 respectively, which has resulted in a negative equity base. During the
12 months ended July 15, 1983, RHCDC collected about 80,000 hides which almost
met Bansbari's and ELI's raw material requirements. Factors causing the 1088
situation were the small scale of RICDC's operations and its inability to raise
sufficient working capital to enable it to make cash purchases of the best hides.
Also, inadequate collection and curing methods, inputs and facilities led to
ij Details on the proposed subproject are contained in Working Paper Number 2
(Project File).
2{ Estimated to be about 38% of current domestic demand for leather footwear.
2/ Estimated at an average of 4 sq. ft of hide per shoe.
jI  The company's management plans to issue additional share to interested inves-
tors. Nepal Tanning Industries (Pvt.) Ltd. in Biratnagar has indicated an
interest in purchasing about Rs 200,000 of shares, or about 15% of RHCDC's
share capital.



-30-
significant deterioration in hide quality. jJ  Under the proposed subproject for
RHCDC, these inefficiencies would be addressed.
5.08    The subproject under consideration involves the upgrading and expansion
of the hide collection system which would increase RHCDC's capacity from its
present 80,000 hides p.a. to about 240,000 hides p.a. The build-up vould be
gradual, taking into account RHCDC's administrative capacity and market demand
from Bansbari, ELI and other producers who are moving into hide leather process-
ing, such as Nepal Tanning Industries in Biratnagar. The collection system would
be augmented to include two regional collection centers (at Butwal in the
mid-Terai and Lahan in the south-east), 8 district centers, and 15 collection
depots (Map 1). The subproject also would provide for site preparation, con-
struction or rental of buildings at headquarters and regional centers; at the
district centers, godowns with asbestos roofing would be used to protect against
su mer temperatures. The subproject would provide for procurement of two trucks,
two vans, one jeep and two motorcycles as necessary transport for moving the
hides from the collection points to HLI's and Bansbari's factories, or to various
depots to await pick-up by Bansbari's or ULI's trucks. The estimated fixed
investment costs are US$350,000 (Rs 6.0 million) and the working capital require-
ments are estimated at US$150,000 million (Rs 2.6 million). The economic
benefits from the project would arise mainly from the use of hides which other-
wise would be wasted, and the improved quality of inputs to leather producers.
5.09    Financial Restructurin2.  Both Bansbari and RHCDC are in need of
recapitalization since their net equity has been diluted and their debt is all
short-term. During the preparation of the IDP, HMG has been advised of the need
for such financial restructuring through equity infusion and long-term debt
financing. VZ Although H11 expressed preference for the companies to have a high
equity proportion to decrease the debt-service requirements, it would find it
difficult to fund the equity from its budget. During negotiations, funding
arrangements for RHCDC and Bansbari was discussed including the eligible expendi-
tures under the Credit, i.e. allowing HMG to finance part of its equity contribu-
tion from the IDA credit proceeds, on the conditions that: (a) H1G equity
investments, which might be financed from the IDA credit, are utilized only for
eligible productive expenditures; S/ (b) the equity does not exceed 30Z of total
subproject costs. In addition, RHCDC and Bansbari, with the assistance of LICC
and consultants funded under the IDP, would review and if necessary, redesign the
jj  Primarily in godowns handed over to RECDC by Bansbari. Formerly, Bansbari
had its own hide collection department and storage facilities. However, most
of the godowns leak water and have corrugated metal roofs which raises the
inside temperatures in excess of industry norms for curing and preserving
salted hides.
V) NIDC usually requires a maximum debt:equity of 70:30 for its subprojects.
])  In contrast to financing equity investment for refinancing of existing debts
and losses.



-31-
projects and formulate appropriate financing plans and project implementation
time-tables. Accordingly, the companies could apply to NIDC for financial assis-
tance under the proposed Credit. Agreement was reached during negotiations that:
(a) RHCDC and Bausbari would be eligible for financing under the NIDC credit line
on an exception and priority basis, provided that the subprojects meet NIDC's
financial and economic appraisal criteria; (b) normal terms and conditions would
be applied, except that HMG would guarantee repayment of RHCDC and Banabari
subloans to NIDC (para. 3.07).
C. Technical Assistance Components
5.10    The leather development program includes technical assistance components,
most of which should proceed whether or not the two investment projects are
undertaken. The total cost of these components are estimated at US$550,000
including US$100,000 for export promotion and US$450,000 in advisory service.
Phase I of the technical assistance, would be for five segments of the industry
including consultancy to Bansbari and RHCDC in finalizing their projects and
upgrading methods with existing equipment. Phase II would be for RHCDC and
Bansbari when the two investment projects are undertaken.
5.11    Hide Collection Advisor.  A specialist experienced in collection and
distribution of agricultural commodities and knowledgeable about curing and
preservation of hides and skins would assist RHCDC in improving the efficiency of
its operations and in formulating RHCDC's proposed expansion project. The ini-
tial assignment would be about three months, to examine alternative means to
improve existing operations. At the time that RHCDC's proposed expansion project
is financed, six months of additional advisory assistance would be made avail-
able, principally to assist RHCDC in implementing the project, particularly in
the areas of collection systems and procedures for new regional and district
collection centers.
5.12    Tanning and Leather FinishinR Specialist.  The IDP would provide assis-
tance to the Bansbari company in improving the quality and range of tanned
leather and in formulating a modernization and balancing program (BMR), to place
Bansbari in a stronger position to compete in the export market. An initial four
man-months would be needed to provide advice in tanning practices and to assess
BMR alternatives.  When BMIR is undertaken, eight man-months of additional techni-
cal assistance would be provided, with a focus on making the most of the balanced
capacity to improve the quality and efficiency on Bansbari's tanning operations.
5.13    Footwear Design and Production Advisors.  The IDP would finance technical
assistance to improve design and production of Bansbari's range of adult and
children's footwear and boots. Two specialists in design and production would be
hired for six man-months each. The footwear design advisor would be needed early
to provide an input into the optimum product mix and recommend methods and equip-
ment needed to produce the desired products. The shoe design advisor would also
be a candidate for the cobbler upgrading program, if background and experience
matched task requirements. The consultant on shoe production would be provided
in conjunction with the equipment upgrading and expansion program of Bansbari.
The advisors, if possible, would be from a major international footwear company
which would be positioned to provide ongoing technical collaboration, marketing
assistance, and subcontracting support to Bansbari.



-32-
5.14    Cobbler Assistance.  Based on an ISC survey, there are about 3,300 small
cobbler units in the urban and rural areas and five (including Banusbari) shoe
factories in Nepal. Urban cobblers in the informal sector produce leather shoes
of passable quality for the domestic market using mostly imported leather from
India. With technical assistance in design and production techniques, these
units could improve their competitive position vis-a-vis imported shoes. The IDP
would provide technical assistance in shoe design and production techniques,
through an advisor operating with support from the Cottage Industries Development
Board (CIDB). Emphasis would be on skills training, with courses to be mounted
in Kathmandu and other urban areas such as in Hetauda and Biratnagar. The cour-
ses would be opened to rural cobblers within access to the urban centers to
enable them to adopt upgraded methods. The IDP would finance advisory services,
materials, tools/equipment, and local costs for provision of training courses.
5.15    Export Market Promotion.  Nepalese producers need to diversify their
market outlets and strengthen their customer contacts. The IDP would include
a component for export promotion to assist goatskin and hide leather producers
and hide leather producing companies to attend the main international leather
fair (Paris) held in September of each year, and co visit major leather
producers, from whom Nepalese companies can learn design, production and market-
ing techniques, and seek collaboration arrangements. An amount of US$100,000 is
allocated to cover: (i) about 8 trips to the leather Fairs over the project
period; estimated to cost US$25,000; and (ii) three industry-specific tours
costing a total of about US$75,000 for about 25 manufacturers and exporters. The
trips are intended for private manufacturers, and up to one officer of LICC per
trip. The LICC officer attending the fairs or industry tours will be responsible
for disseminating information to other producers in Nepal. LICC, with the assis-
tance of the leather advisor, will prepare an annual specific program of export
promotion activities for IDA's review and approval.
5.16    Effluent Control.  The discharge of chrome pollutants into open streams
or pcols located near producing companies (e.g., Bansbari, Hetauda Leather, Nepal
Leather Industries in Bhairawa) represents a potential danger to nearby crops and
to human health. The IDP would include technical assistance for a chemical
recovery expert, experienced in control of pollution arising from wet-blue chrome
tanning, to review existing production and control systems in the major tanning
companies. The advisor, who will be attached to LICC, would analyze potential
for introducing cost-effective equipment for effluent control.
5.17    Leather Industry Advisor.  Continued advice, particularly in planning
for the leather group and in formulating policy measures, is needed. The IDP
would finance an advisor to LICC to provide support and consultancy services to
various segments of the industry, including coordinating the work of consultants
and devising improved training/marketing programs and policy measures in the
leather and leather goods subsector. The leather advisor's assignment would be
for 12 months. As part of its assistance to the industry, LICC plans to organize
courses in leather goods design and manufacture, the costs of which would be
borne by H1G; the advisor would assist in the design and initial implementation
of the courses.



-33-
5.18    Terms of reference for the consulting positions have been agreed by LICC,
which would coordinate and monitor the progrsm, providing regular reports to IDA.
Annual work programs will be prepared for each element and provided to IDA, for
concurrence. During negotiations, these arrangements and the terms-of-reference
were confirmed. HMG would continue to provide the funds to cover LICC's operat-
ing budget.
VI. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Credit Arrangements
6.01    The proposed IDA Credit of US$7.5 million equivalent would be made to KMG
Nepal on standard IDA terms and conditions. The Credit provides for a commitment
period of four years and a disbursement period of six years. The initial subloan
component would be US$5.5 million, which HMG would onlend to NIDC through a
subsidiary loan agreement. NIDC would draw down these funds for on-lending
mainly to private enterprises for the financing of specific development projects.
Eligible activities would be the establishment or balancing, modern-
ization/rehabilitation, expansion (BORE) investments in manufacturing, agrobased
enterprises, mining, and industrial services (e.g. engineering repair workshops);
retail and other commercial enterprises would not be made eligible. New
tourism/hotel projects in the Kathmandu Valley also would not be eligible in
accordance with NIDC's strategy of diversifying its portfolio. Two public sector
companies, Bausbari and RHCDC would be eligible under the NIDC subloan components
on an exception and priority basis for their expansion and modernization projects
identified under the development program for the leather subsector (Chapter 5);
however, NIDC subloans to these companies would be guaranteed by HMG and HMG
would have the option to utilize a portion of this component as its equity
investment upto 30Z of eligible expenditures. KME would pass the proceeds of the
Credit to NIDC in Rupees with IHM bearing the foreign exchange risk (para. 6.05).
Repayments to HMG would be on interest rates resulting in a minimum fixed spread
of 4Z to NIDC.
6.02    During the first two years of project implementation, HMG would utilize
US$1.0 million of the Credit as its contribution to the establisiment of an
Import/Export Facility to be handled by tle Nepal Rastra Bank; beginning the
third year, HMG through NRB would on-lend this amount to NIDC under the same
terms and conditions of its subsidiary loan agreement under the Credit with
emphasis on NIDC subloans to export-oriented industries.
6.03    The technical assistance funds of US$1.0 million would be utilized for
studies, consultancy and training for the Ministry of Industry, Ministry of
Tourism, Industrial Services Center, Leather Industries Coordination Cell, Nepal
Industrial Development Corporation, and leather/leather goods enterprises. The
costs of the technical assistance components which are outlined in Chapter 3
would not be repayable to HMG as they constitute development expenditures; these
are expected to result in improved industrial productivity and exports and help
achieve enployment objectives. During negotiations, the terms of reference for
these studies and consultancy were confirmed which are expected to be initiated
around June, 1985.



-3'-
B. Maior Terms and Conditions
6.04    Interest Rates.   MG would on-lend to NIDC at the minimum rate of 7% for
fixed investment subloans and 10% for working capital subloans. In accordance
with the existing interest rate structure in Nepal, NIDC's interest charges would
be 12X for fixed investment subloans and 15% for working capital subloans and
a commitment fee of 0.75% per annum; NIDC's lending rates are positive in rela-
tion to medium term inflation projections (para. 2.17). NIDC's on-lending rates
to industrial borrowers would be reviewed aunually, and would be revised if
necessary to ensure that the rates remain positive in relation to medium-term
inflation projection and consistent with the commercial bank rates for industry.
NIDC would pay 1MG a commitment fee of 0.5% per annum of the undisbursed balance
payable from the date of commitment to the date of disbursement of each subloan.
6.05    ExchanLe Risk.  Under Credit 705-NEP, the Nepal Rastra Bank has carried
the exchange risk through a procedure of foreign exchange loss reimbursement;
under the proposed Credit, RNG would directly absorb the exchange risk, with
arrangements similar to those under the CSI Project (Credit 1191-NEP). No
exchange risk fee vould be charged since most of expected borrowers would be
small enterprises; this is also in line with HMG's interest rate policy to
promote industrial investments (para. 4.19).
6.06    Free Limit and Subloan Size.  NIDC's subloan free-limit under the Credit
would be US$150,000 equivalent. As in the Credit 705-NEP, this should allow IDA
to reviev about 25% of the subprojects by number and about 70Z by amount. The
minimum subloan size is expected to be US$20,000 as in Credit 705-NEP, wbich
would avoid redundancy of coverage by commercial banks under the CSI Project.
The maximum subloan size would be US$1.5 million vhich would still provide a
reasonably broad range of subprojects and encourage financing from bilateral
sources and joint venture partners (para 4.28).
6.07    Amortization Schedule.  Repayments from NIDC to HMG would be based on
a fixed amortization schedule of 18 years including a grace period of 5 years.
The maturity and grace period of NIDC loans for fixed investment would not exceed
15 years and 3 years respectively; maturity of subvoans for working capital would
not exceed 7 years.
6.08    Procurement.  Given the expected size of contracts and maximum sualoan
under the Credit, international competitive bidding would not be required. Under
the Credit, NIDC would implement its existing procurement procedures which con-
form to the Bank's standard practices for development banks; procurement deci-
sions would continue to be based on a minimum of three valid quotations from
established sources (para. 4.12).
6.09    Disbursement.  Annex 15 shows the estimated disbursement schedule, which
reflects experience under Credit 705-NEP and the profile of actual disbursements
under development banking projects involving IDA credits. IDA's disbursements
for eligible subloans vould be against 100% of the foreign exchange cost of
imported goods and services, 70% of goods locally procured and initial permanent



-35-
working capital in the form of imported materials inputs provided this is part of
a fixed investment subloan. For technical assistance components, ID& would
finance 100% of exDenditures for consultancy/advisory services, overseas train-
ing, and foreign exchange cost of imported goods.
6.10    Disbursements for the Import/Export Facility would be made in two
tranches of US$500,000 each; disbursement of the first tranche would be made
after HHG/1RB have established the IEF by contributing its minimum share of
US$500,000 and adopting eligibility criteria and procedures satisfactory to IDA;
disbursement of the second tranche would be made after IDA's satisfactory review
of the utilization of the first tranche (para. 3.04); during negotiations, agree-
ment was reached that upto US$1.0 million equivalent to IDnA's contribution to the
IEF would be made available for eligible NIDC subloans beginning the third year
after the Credit becomes effective (para. 3.05).
6.11    Reporting, Accounts, and Auditixg.  MDI, NRB, LICC, and ISC/DOI, would be
required to submit quarterly progress reports on the implementation of components
under their jurisdiction. NIDC will continue to submit audit reports in a form
satisfactory to IDA no later than 5 montbs after the end of its fiscal year, i.e.
by December 15; it will also continue to submit quarterly progress reports on its
operations and institutional developments.
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
7.01    Benefits.  The IDP is expected to result in additional investments and
improved efficiency in industrial enterprises in Nepal. Direct benefits of the
lending components are expected to result in about Rs 160 million in incremental
productive investments in about 40 enterprises; roughly 2,300 additional jobs
would be created at a fixed cost per job averaging US$4,000. The TmportlExport
Facility expects to generate exports in convertible foreign exchange of about
US$10.0 million annually equivalent to about 30% of total merchandise exports
in FY82. In addition, productivity and exports of the leather group would be
increased through key investments and technical services at various stages of
leather collection, processing, and footwear manufacture. New projects would be
promoted particularly in light engineering and selected agroprocessing groups,
which could result in new technology and foreign investments. The technical
assistance components of the project are expected to assist HEG in implementing
selected industrial policies and export promotion efforts. NIDC would be
assisted to improve its operations which should result in an improved quality of
industrial projects in Nepal.
7.02    Risks.  A risk in the subloan component is that an adequate number of
identified and eligible subprojects may not materialize due to inadequate
entrepreneurial interest, the multiple constraints to industrialization and
difficulties in incentives and their administration. The proposed IDP has been
designed to help address these constraints by providing a conservative subloan
amount; entrepreneurial training courses in preparing and promoting viable
industrial projects; assistance in the development and implementation of
appropriate incentives for industry and exports through training and technical



-36-
assistance; and incorporation of subsector development components in key product
groups. Success of the leather development program would depend primarily on the
recovery of the leather market, the actual structuring of the investment
projects, and the ability of consultants to influence the upgrading of methods
and designs.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    During negotiations, the following matters were discussed, and agreed:
(a)  project components and lending arrangements, particularly for the
Import/Export Facility and for the technical assistance and
investment projects in the leather group (paras. 3.02 - 3.15, 6.01
- 6.11);
(b)  terms and conditions of the proposed Credit, including relending
interest rates, free-limit and subloan sizes, exchange risk,
amortization schedule, and reporting requirements (6.02 to 6.11);
(c)  consultants' terms of reference for the technical assistance
components (paras. 3.06 to 3.10);
(d)  NIDC's draft policy and strategy statements (paras. 4.05 - 4.06);
(e)  NIDC standards on debt service coverage and arrears and related
action program (paras. 4.11, 4.23); and
(f)  Em's assurance to make available local currency resources to NIDC
(para. 4.30).
8.02    The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit:
(a)  approval by NIDC's Board of Directors of its amended Policy and
Strategy Statements (para. 4.04, 4.05); and
(b)  signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between HMG and NIDC
reflecting the lending arrangements and major terms and conditions
(para. 6.01).
8.03    As agreed during negotiatiorn, the signing of an agreement between HMG
and NRB reflecting the lending arrangements for the import/export facility, would
be a condition for disbursement of US$1.0 million allocated for the IEF com-
ponent.



MUl 1
-37-                          Page 1 of 5
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NEPAL: THE LEATHER AND LEATHER GOODS SUBSECTOR
Structure and Composition
1.      In Nepal, leather processing and the manufacture of leather goods con-
sists of the following five stages of production.
2.      Staxe 1:  Recovery of Hides and Skins. jj  Nepal has fairly large sup-
plies of livestock, estimated at about 13.4 million head; consisting of cattle
(49%), goats (28Z), buffalo (20%), and sheep (3%). Collection and extraction
rates take into account the difficult topography and religious practices which
limit availability of cattle hides; the annual available supply is estimated at
about 1.5 million goatszins, 0.3 million buffalo hides, and 0.2 million cattle
hides. Over 70% of the buffalo and goats and over 60% of cattle are located in
the mountain and hill areas. However, the low lying Terai in the southern por-
tion of Nepal provides the greatest source of raw materials due to closer access
to markets and better transportation links than in the hills. Buffalo hides and
goatskins are of good quality, while cattle hides are of low quality, coming from
fallen stock due to religious customs. Poor quality and collection difficulties
Clack of transportation and, until recently, an effective organization), has
meant that no more than 10Z of Nepal's hide resources is utilized by the leather
industry. However, for goatskins, extraction rates are much higher and tanners
feel that the supply of raw material is sufficient to meet their needs. .j In
the long run, however, the main constraint to expanding production is the low
collection rates, particularly in the hide sector. Improvements in collection,
curing and flaying methods could more than double the amount of raw hides avail-
able for collection, while the maximum number of goatskins are collected in years
of peak leather demand (FY80).
3.      Stage 2:- Tanning. O   Prior to 1978, Nepal also exported raw hides and
skins, mainly to India. However, a ban on such exports in April 1978 created the
A} Collection and Recovery of raw hides and skins which are flayed,
cured, and salted for preservation; in rural and village areas, hide
and skins are hung on open stalls and sun-dried for preservation.
21 The TPI/ISC study estimated that about 40% of the potential supply is
collected and extracted annually by small individual collectors who
market their skins directly to the tanners in the Terai.
]| Tanning of hides and skins either through a 'wet blue" chrome-tanning
process or through vegetable tanning, using large rotating drums; in
rural areas a more traditional tanning method of open pits and
vegetable extracts is used.



ANNEX 1
-38-                             Page 2 of 5
impetus to expand tanning and processing capacity. In the last few years, Nepal
has achieved impressive growth in production and exports of vet-blue, and more
recently, finished goatskin leather. Nine private firms in the organized sector,
all located in the Terai region, YJ have capacity to process about 6 million
goatskins annually. In addition, about 600 rural tanners in the informal sector
produce vegetable-tanned leather, mainly for the domestic market. Five of the
goatskin tanneries have capacity t. process about 50,000 pieces each or about
150,000 sq. ft. per month. In addition, two companies (Bansbari Leather and
Shoe Factory and Hetauda Leather Industries) concentrate exclusively on process-
ing of buffalo and cattle hides. Buffalo leathers has good export prospects,
while cattle hides are mainly used as sole leather and shoe uppers for the domes-
tic market.
4.      Stare 3:  Semi-Processing to Crust Stage. 2/  Only NLI (Bhairava) has
adequate finishing capacity and is able to produce good quality crust and
finished goatskin leather. It is therefore able to change its product mix to
meet fluctuating demand and is in the best position to meet cyclical swings in
external demand. 2f Under the marketing tie-up agreement, the German company
assists NLI in quality control and plant supervision. NLI's plant is however
imbalanced:  it has capacity to produce 50,000 vet-blue pieces, 70,000 crust, and
20,000 finished pieces per month, all on a single-shift basis. NLI and Nepal
Tanning Industries (Biratnagar) also have capacity to process about 200 hides per
day, in addition to their goatskin processing operations.
5.      StaRe 4: Leather Finishing. A/  The manufacture of finished goatskin
leather is a recent development in Nepal with the installation in 1979 of finish-
ing machinery at NLI and in Hetauda Leather Industries in 1982. iJ Most of the
other companies intend to install finishing equipment when market conditions
improve. The finishing stage tends to be the most capital intensive with
greatest opportunity for mark-up. However, it is also the most difficult and
unless done correctly, producers will have less prospects to export the leather,
than in wet-blue form. Thus, most producers have been cautious before moving
into leather finishing.
6.      Stage 5: Manufacture of Leather Goods.  Once the local leather industry
is able to produce sufficient quantity and quality of finished leather, it can
A}J Nepal Leather Industries (P) Limited in Bhairawa (NLI), five units in
Birgunj, and one each in Biratnagar, Lahan and Bara.
Z/ Manufacture of crust leather through re-tanning, fat liquoring, and
drying.
O  Most of NLI's crust output is exported to a German company which acts
as as agent for selling the leather to leather goods manufacturers in
Europe.
11 Manufacture of finished leather through buffing, glazing, and other
finishing processes. At this point, the output is still a piece of
leather (cow or buffalo hide or goatskin).
5/ In March 1982 ELI received a subloan of US$397,000 financed out of IDA
Credit 705-NEP.



ANNEX  I
-39-                             Page 3 of 5
then concentrate on developing the base for manufacturing leather goods, which
has the most potential for employment generation. Currently, Nepal is at the
initial stages of leather goods manufacture, consisting mainly of footwear
produced in the formal sector (by Bansbari and 3 other companies) and leather
goods by a small private company (Himalayan Handicrafts which produces bags,
purses and belts for the export market). The constraints to developing this end
of the industry are: (i) poor quality of leather inputs; (ii) lack of design
skills and information on fashion trends; (iii) lack of marketing channels; and
(iv) competition with imported goods coming mainly from India, e.g. annual shoe
imports from India are about 240,000 pairs or nearly twice the annual output of
Bansbari and the three other companies in the organized sector. However, annual
demand for leather footwear is estimated at 1.3 million shoes, which is mainly
met through imports or manufacture of low grade sandals which are unsuitable in
the cold climate. Nepalese producers will gradually build-up capacity to
manufacture a larger range of inexpensive leather footwear if the appropriate
technical assistance and incentives are provided.
Table 1: SUPPLY AND DEMAND FOR SHOES. NEPAL
Source of Supply           Leather      Rubber     Canvas      Fashion
Footwear    Sandals    Shoes       Sandals    Total
A. Domestic productica
1. Centralized
Sector               94,620      250,000        -
2. Decentralized a/
Sector             141,354          -           -
Sub-total          235.974       250.000        -          -
B. Imports
1. India b/            241,000       60,373    66,784      79,039
2. Third countries cl    -           77,821   270,170        9,466
Sub-total          241.000       138.194   336.957      88.505
Total              476.974       388.194   336.957      99.505  1l290.630
Z of Total                 37.0          30.1      26.1         6.8     100.0
Source:  a/  ISC survey 1980
)| Estimated from Monthly Statistics of Foreign Trade of India
c/ Estimates based on Trade Promotion Center Statistics
disaggregated by the mission.
7.      An unusual feature in Nepal is the fragmentation of the industry into two
groups: leather made from goatskins and leather from cattle and buffalo hides
which are mainly produced in differently structured companies (from the ownership
aspect) and serve different markets. !J  The hide sector, until the creation of
Hetauda Leather Industries in 1982, ./ was concentrated in one public sector
1] Full details are contained in the mission's Working Paper (Project File).
E/ HLI, which was established in March 1982, started as a joint venture owned by
the public sector (Bansbari, NIDC) and private shareholders (local and foreign).
In 1983, the foreign shareholder sold his equity position to a new group of
local shareholders, who have a controlling interest in the company.



ANNEX 1
-40-                              Page 4 of 5
corporation (Banabari), while the goatskin sector is entirely private. On the
market end, semi-processed and finished leather made from goatskins is
exclusively for exports (since there is no local demand for kid leather used in
fashion garments and gloves), while hide leather is used mainly as uppers and
soles for domestically produced footwear, with a small amount exported. Due to
rigidities in equipment (size of drums) and unit size of the rawhide/skin, a
goatskin leather producer cannot easily convert to hide leather processing and
vice versa. Thus the goatskin leather producers who represent the major element
in exports, are also the most vulnerable group in periods of weak international
demand.
8.      Economic Role.  Agro-processing comprises about 70% of Nepal's industrial
output, while leather accounts for about 10. The leather subsector plays an
important role in the domestic footwear market and an even more prominent role in
the export sector. In FY80, leather and leather goods exports amounted to
Rs 198.7 million and accounted for 46% of manufactured exports, or nearly 14% of
total exports. By FY82 leather exports represented about 27% of manufactured
exports and 5% of total exports, which is still sizeable. The growth aad sub-
sequent decline of leather exports in the period FY75-FY83 are shown below:
Table 2: Leather Exports: Quantity and Amount. FY75-FY83
Tanned Goatskins  a/                         Tanned Hides  b/
Unit Value                           Unit Value    Total
Pieces     Amount       Per Skin      Pieces    Amount        Per Hide      Amount
(Mill.)  (Rs. Mill.)    (Rs.)        (Thous.) (Rs. Mill.)    (Rs.)        (Rs. Mill.)
FY76        -cl         -            -             -          -            -           24.9
FY77        -           -            -             -          -            -           55.1
FY78      1.06        76.2         72.2          91.9        4.7           51          80.9
FY79      2.09       124.3         59.4          20.8        4.6          221         128.9
FY80      2.32       194.9         84.1          26.5        3.5          132         198.7
FY81      1.43        93.3         65.3          15.6        3.9          253          97.2
FY82      1.78        82.6         46.4          n.a.       10.7          n.a.         93.3
FY83      n.a.        45.0         n.a.          n.a.        4.0          n.a.         49.0
Source:  Nepal Rastra Bank; Trade Promotion Center of Nepal and Leather Industry Cell.
Note:    Data differs slightly from Table 3.4 of the Bank's Country Economic Memorandum
of October 1983, due to differences in LICC's/TPC figures and in the Rastra
Bank's figures.
a/ In various stages of processing (wet-blue, chrome crust and fully finished leather).
b/ Mainly buffalo sole leather in semi-finished or crust form.
cI Breakdown by hides and skins not available for FY75-FY77.



ANNEX 1
-41-                              Page 5 of 5
9.      Until FY73, Nepal exported solely raw dry-salted goatakins, mainly to
India. Gradually, exports have shifted from raw skins to semi-tanned leather,
particularly after Nepal's ban on exports of raw hides and skins in April 1978.
However, over 80% of Nepal's leather exports are still in the wet-blue
(semi-finished) stage while the remainder consists of crust or finished leather
manufactured from buffalo hides and goatskins. In recent years, Nepal has been
able to export a small quantity of leather goods to the EEC markets. A sig-
nificant feature of Nepal's exports is the attempt to diversify markets.
Recorded exports to India virtually halted in the mid-1970s, when Nepal's
goatskins gained recognition in developed countries, i.e., in the EEC, USA, and
Japan. Unrecorded exports of raw hides and skins to India still occur, although
no reliable estimates are available to determine the extent of this trade.
10.     Institutional Support.  To undertake sector planning and to provide
market assistance to the industry overall, the Leather Industry Coordination Cell
(LICC) was created in July 1982, as a result of the TPI/ISC study and also on
IDA's recommendation; LICC is performing an important information-gathering role
and is providing advice to exporters about possible market sources. The techni-
cal assistance under the IDP would extent this critical role. A leather industry
advisor, experienced in marketing and knowledgeable about production and design
aspects, would be recruited to the LICC to provide assistance on request to the
goatskin leather producers and to B,,sbari and HLI. LICC also could exercise a
key role in arranging initial contacts for marketing tie-ups between interna-
tional importers and local tanneries, finishing companies and leather goods
producers. LICC should actively seek fereign collaboration (joint ventures,
sub-contracting, bilateral agreements) to assist in financing capital invest-
ments, and at the same time, provide tecLznical assistance and product adaptation
advice to meet consumer tastes in different export markets.



ANNEX 2
-42-                           Page 1 of 3
TEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPNFEN 'PROJECT
peposit Rates of
Commercial Banks and the Financial Institutions
Effective from June 15, 1983
Type of Deposits                                   (percent per annum)
1.  Current account                                                -
2.  Saving deposit account                                        8.5
3.  Fixed deposit account
(a)  For 3 months                                            4.5
(b)  For 6 months                                            9.5
(c)  For 1 year                                             12.5
(d)  For 2 years and more                                   13.5
Lending Rates-of
Commercial Banks and the Financial Institution
Purpose of Loan
1. Industrial Loan
(a)  Cottage Industry -/
i)  Fixed capital                                      11
ii)  Working capital                                    11
(b) Basic Industry, Import Substitute Industry,
Export-oriented Industry, Forest-based Industry,
Agro-based Industry and Tourist-based Industry:
i)  Fixed capital -/2                                  12
ii)  Working capital 2                                  15
(c)  Other Industries 3/
i)  Fixed capital                                      17
ii)  Working capital                                    17
2.  Agro-based Industry
(a)  Cardamom, fruits, tea and cotton farming               10
(b) Animal husbandry, Poultry farming, Fishery,
Sericulture and Bee-keeping                            12
(c)  Irrigation              4/                             12
(d)  Other Agricultural Loan -                              15



ANNEX 2
-43-                           Page 2 of 3
Effective from June 15, 1983
(Percent per annum)
3.  Service Loan 5                                                    15
4. Loan on Export Bills
(a)  Letter of Credit -                                           13
(b)  Advance bills collection                                     14
5. Loan against the deposit of His Majesty's Government
Development Bond                                                  14
6.  Loan against the deposit of Fixed deposit receipt                 2% additional
charges more than
the interest carried
by Fixed deposit
receipt.
7.  Other Loan                                                        Minimum 172
(commercial banks
can fix more than
this) 6/
8. Additional Charge on Loan due 7/                                   2.5% more than the
fixed rate of
Interest
9. Misused Loan on Agriculture Industry and
Service Industry 8/                                               Minimum 17%
10. Rebate
The commercial banks and Financial institutions can extend a rebate of
one percent for the timely repayment of interest and principal.
11.  NIDC Guarantee Fee                                                2.5%
12.  NIDC Penalty Rate -                                               Upto 7%
13.  NIDC Commitment Fee                                               0.5 - 0.75
1) An industrial enterprise in which investment in machinery, equipment and tools
does not exceed Rs 0.2 million in value and in which fixed assets do not exceed
Rs 0.8 million, and total debts not exceeding Rs one million.
2) This shall be valid in connection with the Cottage Industries having a loan
more than Rs one million.



ANNEX 2
-44-                  Page 3 of 3
3) All industry not included in No. 1 and 2 above.
4) Only the agricultural loan specified by NRB.
5) Only such industries which are defined by NRB (Nepal Rastra Bank) as service
industry could be priority sector.
6) 1% and 2% more interest to be paid on semi-luxury and luxury items respectively
to the commercial banks for loans extended against the import bills or against
the collateral of luxury items.
7) This is applicable on any instalment due payable.
8) It is applicable from the day the loan amount is disbursed. 2.5% additional
interest as penalty is charged on the overdue amount.
9) Rate of 3% if paid within 3 months, 5.0% if paid after 3 months but
within 6 months, 6.5% if paid after 6 months but within 12 months, 7% if
paid after 12 months.



-45-                          AN      3
Page 1 of 3
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Statement of Investment and Operational Policies ij
1.      The Nepal Industrial Development Corporation, whose objective is to
promote and develop industries in the private sector in Nepal, vill be guided
by the following policies:
I. Scope and Nature of Operations:
(i) NIDC will be guided by the Government's National Economic Plan.
Industries in the plan will be promoted on a priority basis.
(ii) NIDC will participate in or otherwise assist all industrial
enterprises under the industrial classifications of manufactur-
ing, energy based, agrobased specified industry, mines and
mineral processing, tourism service, and assembly as recognized
by HMG under the Industrial Enterprise Act, 1982 as amended
from time to time.
(iii) NIDC will finance small, medium or large enterprises registered
as public or private limited companies whose ownership and
management are controlled by the private sector. It will also
promote and invest in collaboration with government or govern-
ment-owned agencies and organization in selected priority
industrial projects.
(iv) NIDC will finance new enterprises and also the expansion and
modernization of existing companies.
(v) NIDC will assist industrial enterprises by providing:
(a) Medium- and long-term loans in domestic and/or foreign
currencies;
(b) Equity participation;
jj Approval of this Statement by the NIDC Board of Directors would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.



ANNEX 3
-46-                              Page 2 of 3
(c) Guarantees of Loans;
(d) Underwriting share issues of public limited companies; and
(e) Technical and Nanagerial advice.
II. Operational Policy:
(i) NIDC vill finance projects vhich upon careful investigation are
found to be financially and economically sound and technically
vell conceived.
(ii) NIDC vill also finance cottage industries located in industrial
districts and NIDC specified backward areas.
(iii) The minimum financing (debt plus equity) that NIDC vill provide
is Rs 50,000.
(iv) The use of NIDC's loan financing is to be limited to invest-
ments in fixed assets and permanent vorking capital, and
short-term loans for vorking capital based on merit of each
case.
(v) NIDC, vithin the guidelines established by the Rastra Bank,
vill set its interest rates to maintain a reasonable spread and
reflect the cost of capital.
(vi) NIDC vill set the maturity of its loans on the basis of the
debt service capacity of its clients, but will not normally
exceed 15 years and grace period normally not exceeding 3
years.
(vii) NIDC's total financial exposxre vill normally not exceed 70% of
total assets after project implementation. (i.e. 70% of total
project cost for new projects and for existing companies, 70%
of total existing assets plus cost of proposed project.)
(viii) NIDC vill encourage joint ventures with foreign partners in
industries particularly those that require advanced technology.
(ix) To broaden the industrial ownership in the country, NIDC vill
seek to sell its equity investments to the extent possible.
(x) NIDC will adopt appropriate procurement procedures vhich would
ensure that the goods and services procured by projects it
assists are suitable and competitive in price.



-47-                              Page 3 of 3
III. Financial Policies:
(i) NIDC vill require its borrowers to provide adequate collateral;
for working capital loans, NIDC may require collateral in
addition to the assets owned by the company. NIDC will require
its borrowers to keep records in accordance with sound account-
ing procedures. NIDC will have the right to inspect the
enterprises it finances.
(ii) NIDC will not bear the exchange risk on loans repayable in
foreign currency.
(iii) NIDC's long-term debt will not exceed five times its share
capital and reserves.
(iv) NIDC will normally not seek ownership and/or management control
of any manufacturing enterprise.
(v) The total equity investments of NIDC should not at any time
exceed its paid-up share capital and reserves.
(vi) The total commitment of NIDC to any singly enterprise, in all
forms including Equity, Loans aud Guarantees shall not normally
exceed 25Z of its share capital and reserves.
(vii) NIDC will diversify its portfolio to maintain a reasonable
level of risk.
IV. Accounting and Auditing:
NIDC will maintain accounting records which adequately reflect its
business operations and results in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.
V.  Profits and Their Distribution:
NIDC will seek to develop earnings sufficient to cover expenses and
taxes, to provide reserves adequate to the size and risk of its
portfolio.



-48-                                   4
Page 1 of 4
NEPJAL
APPRAISAL OF THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Strategy Statement jJ
FY84-FY87
I. Business Policy:
1.      NIDC's overall lending activities would continue to be guided by the
priorities as outlined in HMG's Industrial Policy of 1982 as amended for time
to time vhich includes the following major objectives:
(i) To encourage private sector industrial investment as an element in
the growth of gross national product;
(ii) to open up gainful employment opportunities in the industrial sector
for a labor force excessively dependent on agriculture;
(iii) to attain self-reliance in the production and supply of essential
consumer goods and most construction materials;
(iv) to maintain regional economic balance;
(v) to increase the output of and attain quality improvesents in cur-
rently manufactured articles;
(vi) to improve the balance-of-payment position through increased exports
and more efficient import substitutinn;
Cvii) to enhance entrepreneurial, managerial and technical capabilities
as a means of assisting the development of industrial organization;
and
(viii) to develop indigenous technologies and to import such appropriate
technologies as will contribute to industrial productivity.
Portfolio Diversification:
2.      NIDC will diversify its portfolio of loan and equity investments.  In
the field of tourism, NIDC shall not for the time being finance general type of
Hotel Projects in the Kathmandu Valley. However, it will continue to finance
J Approval of this Statement by the NIDC Board of Directors would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.



ANNEX 4
-49-                               Page 2 of 4
treking lodges and Hotels in other parts of the country. NIDC will also
emphasize the promotion of export-oriented enterprises in line vith HMIIs policy.
Proiect Promotion:
3.      NIDC will focus its efforts in project identification, development and
promoting industries in the private sector. NIDC will conduct periodic workshops
for selected entrepreneurs (priority to NIDC applicants with approved financial
assistance) which cover the essential elements of project financing and implemen-
tation; NIDC will intensify the dissemination of information of feasible
industrial projects. NIDC's successful and potential clients will be encouraged
to invest and assist in setting up these projects. NIDC will continue to
simplify its lc.an processing procedures and will focus on providing assistance to
its applicants in fulfilling its requirements as well as those of EMG and other
agencies.
Appraisal Standards:
4.      NIDC will take steps to increase the quality of its appraisal reports
particularly Li the areas of technical, market and economic analysis.
5.      It will pay special attention to capacity utilization within an already
existing industry before financing new undertakings. Problems in the subsectors
will be analyzed and steps will be taken to utilize existing capacities before
financing new projects.
6.      To help ensure the promoter's interest and commitment to the project,
NIDC would minimize its participation to the extent possible so that equity
contribution of sponsors would be substantial in proportion to total project
cost; one feasible alternative is to break-up some projects into stages according
to the promoters capacity to provide equity and attain a lower and prudent
debt/equity structure.  NIDC will also pursue joint financing and co mercial
banks and ensure availability of working capital financing. To facilitate
appraisal of selected small industries, NIDC would prepare project profiles for
the use of the appraisal staff and prospective entrepreneurs.
7.      NIDC will improve the "feedback' arrangement between appraisal and fol-
low-up activities.
8.      For subsectors where NIDC has existing clients particularly those with
past due accounts, NIDC will focus in analyzing their problems and ensure that
steps are taken to resolve these problems for the specific projects under
appraisal.
9.      To facilitate project implementation, NIDC will require applicants to
meet pre-establishment requirements prior to approval of financial assistance;
NIDC would capitalize interest during construction and included in the calcula-
tion of total project cost.



ANNEX 4
-50-                              Page 3 of 4
Proiect Implementation:
10.    NIDC vill focus its efforts to improve implementation of its subprojects.
Notwithstanding the steps to be taken prior to approval, NIDC vill continue to
assist clients in all aspects of project implementation and improve its disburse-
ment procedures. After signing of project/loan documents, NIDC in agreement with
the client vill draw-up an updated project timetable indicating specific required
activities and persons/agency responsible for each activity. NIDC will continue
its monthly review/report on the status and progress on all subprojects under
implementation indicating problems and next steps for NIDC, particularly on the
cancellation of subloans with slow and/or no disbursement activities, and the
need to reappraise subprojects due to significant delay in implementation.
Disbursement:
11.     Construction period shall be determined on the basis of the nature of the
project size and cost. Under the present disbursement procedure, NIDC disburses
the loan amount on a reimbursement of actual capital expenditure made by the
borrower upto the agreed debt/equity ratio. To expedite the implementation of
the future projects, NIDC will allow loan disbursements on a non-reinbursement
basis as per the approved debt/equity ratio in case adequate additional col-
lateral is pledged by the investor during construction stage which will be
released after full implementation.
Follow-up and Collections:
12.     Due to its rising level of arrears and number of clients which are
experiencing operational problems and difficulties in repaying their debts, NIDC
will continue to emphasize the collection and realization of its dues. To help
improve the situation, NIDC has established a Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Division with a Special Cell to undertake in-depth analysis of problems projects;
NIDC has increased the rebate on interest as a further incentive for timely
repayment. NIDC vill continue to charge a penalty rate of 7% but will also
provide some rebate for early payments of over dues. Based on a
project-by-project review, NIDC sets annual targets for collection which is
approved by its Board and EMG; these targets are normally reviewed every six
months with necessary adjustments made upon approval of its Board and MEM. For
FY85, the targets are Rs. 30.0 million for principal and Rs. 50.0 million for
interest and other charges.
13.     Performance against these targets will be monitored closely, these tar-
gets will be reviewed and updated annually with the following guidelines:



ANNEX 4
-51-                              Page 4 of 4
(a) annual debt service coverage ratio J should be, at least, 1.1
times;
(b) total arrears in principal and interest should uot exceed the
amount of unimpaired paid-in capital and reserves.
14.    NIDC would seek MC's support and assistance to achieve the above targets
NIDC will closely monitor the implementation of the clearing arrangements agreed
with the commercial banks and HMG's investment and import licensing department.
NIDC will provide adequate qualified staff to thoroughly study its problem
projects and formulate tine-bound action programs leading to the rehabilitation
and improvement in operations. NIDC will hire outside consultants to provide the
required expertise as well as to supplement any shortage in NIDC's staffing
requirements.
Nanasement Information/Financial Plannins:
15.     NIDC will continue to prepare periodic reports on its operations and will
focus on the timely completion of these reports to Management, the Board of
Directors, HHG and other external agencies.
16.     NIDC will ensure that its operations and financial statements are
properly audited by qualified external auditors; comprehensive annual audit
report will be completed no later than two months from the end of each fiscal
year as required by tha NIDC Act; a long-form audit report vill also be prepared
no later than five months from the end of each fiscal year.
17.     In addition to its yearly vorkplan and budget, NIDC will expand its
planning period to at least three years particularly in determining the amount
and necessary steps to meet NIDC's resource requirements in both domestic and
foreign currency. NIDC vill ensure that sufficient funds are available before
commitments are made and will endeavor to diversify its sources of funds.
OrRanization/Staff:
18.     The existing organization structure of NIDC will be maintained and
emphasis will be on the following aspects:
(a) Improvement in inter-divisional coordination and information feed-
back particularly betweer Project Implementation and Follow-up
Divisions and Project Analysis Division; and
(b) training of its staff; NIDC will ensure timely implementation of
the "institutional assistance program" with other development
financing institutions. In addition to NIDC's existing training
program for its staff, seminar/workshops will also be conducted in
areas such as entrepreneural development and project implementation
for its clients and potential investors from different regions.
J This ratio is equal to: Net profit after taxes plus total cash collec-
tion of principal and total interest expenses for year nlus non-cash
charges less uncollected interest income for the year, divided by total
interest expenses for year plus total payments of principal on NIDC
debts.



NEPAL IN0USTiRAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Orgonlzotlon Chad
VW. -dalm  OF=I                                               . 
Ap-    m to MC bd %"on
n ~   ~  ~    _
I              I~
o_      D s             :                                                       al-



-53-                             ANNEX 6
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS
(N. Rupees Millions)
PossY79  ,FY80      FY81       FY82      FY83       FY84 jj
Gross Arnrovals
- Loan                     46.7      51.5      56.9       58.1      112.0 21   124.9
- Equity                    0.6       2.0       -          3.5       14.8 ./    22.1 ])
- Guarantees                3.5                 8.0        6.3        2.8        13.0
Total                50.8       53.5      64.9      67.9       129.6      160.0
Net Commitments
- Loans                    41.6      45.4      45.4       63.0       85.6       114.2
(Foreign Currency)    ( 6.2)    C 3.3)    ( 6.0)    (28;0)    ( 38.5)       (45.7)
(Local Currency)      (35.4)    (42.1)    (40.5)    (35.0)    ( 47.0)       (68.5)
- Equity                    0.9       1.0       4.1        3.1       14.8         9.0
- Guarantees                5.6       1.0       0.4        4.0        2.8        13.0
Total                48.1       47.4      50.9       70.1      103.2      136.2
Disbursements
- Loans                    41.7      24.2      45.9       45.3       47.5 4J    41.5
(Foreign Currency)    ( 6.2)    ( 3.7)    ( 1.4)    (16.6)    ( 23.6)       (15.9)
(Local Currency)      (35.5)    (20.5)    (44.5)    (28.7)    ( 23.9)       (25.6)
- Equity                    0.9       1.7       0.2        4.3       17.7 J      20.6
- Guarantees                3.1       -         0.4        4.0        3.2         7.9
Total                45.7       25.9      46.5      53.6        68.4       70.0
Source: NIDC
Note: Approvals are made in local currency; commitments represent loans with approval
letter or signed loan agreements and commitment fee has been paid; foreign
currency loans are segregated upon approval of lending agencies such as IDA and
KfW; Local currency loans include expenditures in Indian currency.
11 Provisional
O Includes loan of Rs. 40.7 million to Hinal Cement in which NIDC has equity
investment equivalent to 84% of total shares.
J Rs. 14.8 million in a loan converted to equity (Nepal Livestock Ltd.) and
Rs. 82. million in Nepal Arab Bank made in FY84.
i} Net of an amount of Rs. 42.0 million loan to Yak & Yeti Hotel administered
by NIDC for KMG and disbursed in previous years, but shown as disbursement
by NIDC in its accounts.



-54-                              ANNEX 7
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
Tndustrial Distribution of Outstandinu  Loans
For Years Ended July 15 1979 to 1983
(Percent)
TvDe of Industries:                   FY79       FY80      FY81      FY82        FY83
Hotels and Tourism                     45.9      47.7      54.1      53.94       54.30
Transportation                         2.2        2.1        -        0.70       0.60
Power                                   1.3       0.8       0.2       0.02       0.01
Manufacturing                          46.3      44.0      42.2      39.90       40.46
Cement                              5.3        4.0        -         -
Food                               33.6       33.5      28.1      27.59      28.20
(of which sugar)                 (1.2)      (1.5)     (1.4)     (1.47)     (1.49)
Beverages                            -          -        1.6       2.45       2.64
Textiles (including Jute)           3.7        3.6       3.8       3.84       3.52
Saw Milling and Wood Products       0.5        0.4       0.4       0.37       0.39
Printing and Publishing             0.5        0.4       0.5       1.67       1.68
Chemicals                           1.5        1.4       4.8       0.49       0.48
Stone Products (Clay, Bricks)       0.1        0.8       2.4       2.38       2.40
Light Machinery                     0.7        0.6       0.6       0.71       0.68
Ice Making and Cold Storage         0.4        0.4        -        0.40       0.47
Miscellaneous                       _  4.3        4.5       3.5       5.44       4.63
100.00    100.00    100.00     100.00      100.00
Source: NIDC



-55-                                AUNIX 
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPHEUT PROJECT
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Income Statement
for Years Ending July 15. 1980-1984
(Rs in Million)
Income                                                   FY80 F81  Y2      3       FY84
(Provisional)
Interest Income                         23.20      25.50     24.90     29.47       34.19
Dividend Income                          1.77        -        0.08       3.56      13.15
Commitment Fees                          0.35       0.59      0.44      0.81        1.60
Interest on Securities/Deposits          0.20       0.20      0.20      0.20        0.21
Other IncomelCharges                     2.47       2.29      2.70      3.90        2.21
Total Income                        27.99     28.58      28.32     37.94       51.36
Expense
Interest Expenses                        9.69      10.34     12.92     15.65       24.86
Depreciation                             0.33       0.36      0.40      0.51        0.57
Administrative and General Expenses      5.40       5.15      7.36      12.75       7.86
Provision for Bad Debts                  3.24       4.25      2.18       -          3.75
Total Expenses                      18.66     20.10      22.86     28.91       37.04
Net Income Before Taxes                  9.33       8.48      5.46      9.03       14.32
Less:  Provision for Taxes               5.42       6.40      3.98      1.64        2.70
Net Income                               3.91       2.08      1.48      7.39       11.62
=am==_am                       Mmn           m
Financial Ratios (Z)
1. Net Income/Average Equity             2.4        1.2        0.9      4.1         5.7
2. Total Income/Average Total Assets   8.1          7.8        7.1      8.3        10.1
3. Administrative Expenses/
Average Total Assets               1.6       1.4         1.9      1.7 jj      1.5
4.  Income from Loans/
Average Loan Portfolio             9.2       9.5         8.6      9.5        10.2
5.  Interest Expense/
Average Loan Portfolio             3.8       3.9         4.4      5.0         7.4
6.  Gross Spread on Loan Portfolio gj   5.3         5.6        4.1      4.5         2.8
7.  Interest Expenses/Average Debt       6.1       6.1         6.5      6.4         9.0
8.  Provision for Bad Debts/
Average Loan Portfolio             1.3       1.6         0.8       -          1.1
9.  Debt Service Coverage Ratio O        1.17      0.94        1.36     1.52        1.39
jj  Net of unusually high write-off for the year of Rs 5.89 million.
3/ Interest income from loans less interest expense divided by average loan portfolio
(including provisions).
S/ DSCR - Net income after tames plus depreciation, provisions, interest expenses,
principal collections less uncollected interest divided by interest expensus plus
principal repayments on NIDC's debts.



WAL
IWDUSTUAL DEVILOP)fHT PROJICT
NEPAL IMDDSTRIAL DZV LOPNUW COIPORAf IONS
Collection Perfor nsIrrsara Pocition
Por Years lndina .ulY 15. 1980/84
(RI in Itillion)
MO                          ns8l                         nu2            _              83                          FM4
A.  Collection Perforance            PriliDAI  intersut Toe!  phrincil Interest xTotl  Principal   Stermat   ol  uPrincipal  Interest Total  Princpil  Interest TIot
1. Arrears, beginning              19.4        13.9    3L3       21.2       16.6     39.8   37.5        31.6    69.   47.1          41.3      MAA     54.2        40.9    Ila1
2. Aounte falling due
during year                  23.7       21.0       44   32.5          24.4      5      33.9       28.6             37.1       25.8    63j4    39.4         30.1     1ja
3. Total Amount Due Cl + 2)        43.1       34.9    1J0        53.7       43.0     96.7   71.4        65.9    1        84.7       67.1   151.        93.6       71.0   164.6
4. Lecal  Collections              21.9        16.3    1S.       16.2       11.4    27.6   24.3         24.6    48.9   30.5         26.2    56.7    28.6          23.1     5a.
5. Arrears, Ending (3 - 4)         21.2       16.6     iLl       37.5       31.6     6L9    47.1        41.3     88.    54.2        40.9    I9.        65.0       47.9   111.9
6.  Total Outstanding Portfolio   252.3       18.6    270.    262.4         31.6    14.0L  299.9        41.3    J4L.2  322.7        40.9    363       346.3       47.9   l31j
7.  Arreare Percentage
(5 divided by 6)       S       .4S        -      14.7S     13.3        -      I.t=    17.62         -      J hQ 16.8            -      ILL      16.6
B. Percentage of Portfolio
affected by Arrears                              56.4Z                         Zi760                       75.61                        S.4.                         *.A.
9. Collection Ratios:
4/3                          50.8       46.7     AUl    30.2          26.5     IL      34.0       37.3    ijaj   36.0         39.0    .7.a      30.6       32.6    31.4
4/2                          92.4       77.6     S5.      49.S        46.7    jIJj    71.7        66.0     7L.    81.6       101.6     jLj      72.6       76.7    74.4



ANNEX 10
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NEPAL INDUSRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Balance Sheet Statments
As of Years Ended July 15. 1980-1984
(Rs in Millions)
Assets                            FY80         FY81         FY82        FY83         FY84
(Provisional)
Cash                            17.04         8.48       30.58        54.79        39.16
Receivables .jf                 30.85        38.07       41.31        44.30        48.18
Total Current Assets          47.89        46.55       71.89        99.09        62.34
Loans                            252.25       282.39       299.89      322.70       346.30
Less:  Provisions              ( 8.75)      (11.61)      (15.68)     (14.97)      (16.97)
Net Loans                      243.50       270.78      284.21       307.73       329.33
Equity Investments  .J 48.87                   48.87        53.19       68.95        90.62
Fixed Assets                       6.57         7.43         8.13       10.37        11.43
Less: Acc. Depreciation          2.16         2.52        2.77         3.01         3.58
Net Fixed Assets                 4.41         4.91         5.36        7.36         7.85
Other Assets ]|                    7.45         6.45         2.50        9.78        10.10
TOTAL ASSETS                   352.12       377.56      417.15       492.91       525.24
m.m  ...                  umm,.m        m               MM_
Contingent Assets i/              27.89        30.28       36.62        70.78         N.A.
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities:
Taxes Payable                   11.26        16.54       19.02        17.61        11.04
others A/                        6.14         7.75        9x50        12.08        19.85
Total Current Liabilities    17.40         24.29       28.52        29.69       30.89
Long-term Debts:
Local Currency                 112.17       132.49      155.70       205.14       187.87
Foreign Currency                49.75        47.52       63.41        65.12        93.06
Total Long-term Debts        161.92       180.01      219.11       270.26      280.93
Other Liabilities 5/               4.4          4.4
Stockholder Equity
Paid-in Capital                157.77       157.77      157.77       177.77       190.27
Reserves                        10.63        11.09       11.75        15.19        23.15
Total Equity                 168.40       168.86      169.52       192.96       213.42
TOTAL LIABILITIES MAD EQUITY    352.12        377.56      417.15       492.91       525.24
====mmin                    =mm m_,m
Contingent Liabilities 6/         27.89        30.28       36.62        70.78         N.A.
Current  Ratio                     2.75         1.92        2.52         3.34         2.02
Debt/Equity Ratio
- accounting                     0.96         1.07        1.29         1.40         1.32
- contractual                    1.13         1.25        1.52         1.52         1.42
Provisions/Loans (Z)               3.5          4.1         5.2          4.6          4.9
jJ  Net of provision for loss of interest receivable (Rs 5.25 million in FY82 Rs 7.14
million in FY81, Rs 5.75 million in FY80, and Rs 3.55 million in FY79) and interest
in suspense account of Rs 3.74 million in FY82 and Rs 5.40 million in FY83.
.J  Includes government securities and deposits and investment in industrial district.
i/ Receivables from NRB; upto FY81, this item includes Rs 4.4 million in HM1's
advances to industrial districts through NIDC.
g/ Includes dividend payables, client deposits, gratuity and feasibility fund payables.
5j  HNG's advances to industrial district (contra account).
j  Net of managed fund (Rs 47.23 million in FY83) representing  HG loan to Yak and Yeti
Hotel.



-58-                           ANNEX 11
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Proiected Loan ODerations
For Years EndinR July 15, 1985 to 1988
(Rupees Millions)
Loan Approvals                   FY85        FY86        FY87        FY88
Local Currency                63.0        73.0        84.0        97.0
Foreign Currency              52.0        59.0        68.0        78.0
TOTAL                      115.0       132.0       152.0       175.0
Net Commitments
Local Currency                54.0        62.0        71.0        82.0
Foreign Currency              44.0        50.0        58.0        66.0
TOTAL                       98.0       112.0       129.0       148.0
Disbursements
Local Currency                38.0        43.0        50.0        57.0
Foreign Currency              31.0        35.0        40.0        46.0
69.0        78.0       90.0       103.0



-59-                               ANNEX 12
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Proiected Income Statements
For Years EndinA July 15. 1985 to 1988
(Rupees Millions)
Income                                     FY85        FY86         FY87         FY88
Interest Income                            36.2        37.6         39.7         43.5
Commitment Fees                             0.7         0.8          0.9          0.9
Other Income                                5.8         6.0          .2           6.9
TOTAL INCOME                            42.7         44.4         46.8        51.3
Expenses
Interest Expenses                          18.7        20.3         23.2        27.9
Administrative Expenses                     7.7          8.1         8.5          9.9
Depreciation                                0.4         0.4          .4          0.4
TOTAL EXPENSES                          26.8         28.8         32.1.    v .8.2
Income Before Taxes and Provisons          15.9        15.6         14.7         13.1
Provisions for Bad Debts                    4.0         3.9          3.7          3.3
Income before Income Tax                   11.9        11.7         11.0          9.8
Income Tax Provisions                     8.0         7.8          7.3         6.6
Net Income                                  3.9         3.9          3.7          3.2
Ratios (Z)
1. Net Income/Average Equity                1.8         1.8          1.7          1.4
2. Total Income/Average Total Assets        8.1         8.1          8.0          8.2
3. Administrative Expenses/
Average Total Assets                  1.5         1.5          1.5         1.6
4. Income from Loans/
Average Loan Portfolio              10.2         10.0         10.0        10.3
5. Interest Expense/
Average Loan Portfolio                5.3         5.4          5.9         6.6
6.  Gross Spread on Loan Portfolio          4.9         4.6          4.4          3.7
7.  Interest Expense/Average Debt           6.6         6.8          7.0          7.7
8. Provision for Bad Debts/
Loan Portfolio                       1.1          1.0          0.9         0.8



-60-                               ANNEX 13
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Proiected Cashflow Statements
For Years Endina July 15. 1985 to 1988
(Rupees Millions)
Cash Inflows                          FY85        FY86         FY87        FY88
Net Profit before Taxes
and Provisions                    15.9        15.6         14.7        13.1
Depreciation                         0.4         0.4          0.4         0.4
Less: Uncollected Interest
Income for the Year      ( 7.2)       C 7.5)      ( 7.9)       ( 8.7)
Collection on Principal             50.0        59.0         67.0        74.0
Borrowings:
Local Currency                     -          15.0         20.0        25.0
Foreign Currency                  31.0        35.0        40.0         46.0
Total Cash Inflow                   90.1       117.5        134.2       149.8
Cash Outflows
Disbursements:
Local Currency                    38.0        43.0         50.0        57.0
Foreign Currency                  31.0        35.0         40.0        46.0
Equity Investments                   5.0         5.0         10.0        15.0
Debt Repayments                     25.0        25.0         25.0        25.0
Tax Payments                         8.0         7.8          7.3         6.6
Fixed Assets                         0.5         0.6          0.8         1.0
Total Cash Outflows                107.5       116.4        133.1       150.6
Net Cash Inflow(Outflow)             (17.4)        1.1          1.1        (
Cash Balance, Beginning               39.0        21.6         22.7        23.8
Cash Balance, Ending                  21.6        22.7         23.8        23.0
Debt Service Coverage Ratio            1.60        1.68         1.87        1.89



-61-                             AMR 14
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Proiected Balance Sheet Statements
For Years Ed2d Ju   15. 1985 to 1988
(Ruees Milion)
Assets                                     FY85       M6           F Y7         FT-.$B-
Current Assets:
Casb                                    21.6         22.7         23.8        23.0
Receivables                             66.2         73.7         U.6         90.3
Sub-total                             87.8         96.4        105.4       113.3
Investments i                              95.0       100.0        110.0       125.0
Loans and Advances ./                     365.0       384.0        407.0       436.0
Less: Accumulated Provisions            (21.0)      (24.9)       (28.6)      (3.9)
Net Loans/Advances                     344.0        359.1        378.4       40.
Net Fixed Assets                            8.1         8.3          8.7          9.3
TOTAL ASSETS                         534.9        563.8       602.5        651.7
Liabilities and Ecuity
Current Liabilities:
Taxes Payable                           11.0         11.0         11.0        11.0
Others                                  20.0         20.0         20.0        20.0
Sub-total                             31.0         31.0        31.0         31.0
Long-term Debts:
Local Currency                         168.0        163.0        163.0       168.0
Foreign Currency                       119.0        149.0        184.0       225.0
Sub-total                            287.0        312.0       347.0        393.0
Stockholders _'-ity:
Paid-in Capital                        190.0        190.0        190.0       190.0
Reserves ]/                             26.9         30.8         34.5        37.7
Sub-total                            216.9        220.8       224.5        227.7
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY       534.9        563.8       602.5        651.7
Ratios
Current Ratio                               2.83        3.11         3.40        3.65
Debt/Equity Ratio
- accounting                              1.32        1.41         1.55        1.73
- contracual A/                          1.43         1.52         1.65        1.83
Provisions/Loan Portfolio (Z)               5.8         6.5          7.2         7.3
Equity/Loan Portfolio (Z)                  59.4        57.5         55.2         52.2
j/  Includes Rs 2.5 million in IRB receivables.
.]/  Net of maged fund of is 47.23 million.
J Includes capital reserves of Rs 0.30 million.
Al Assumes outstanding guarantees of Rs 23.6 million as in 7183.



-62-                            ANNEX  15
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Disbursements
BY Ouarter    Cumiulative    Percentage
IDA Fiscal Year and Cuarter                  (US$ Millions)
FY85    To September 30, 1984
December 31, 1984
March 31, 1985                    -              -              -
June 30, 1985                   1.0 &J 1.0      1.0           13.3
IY86    To September 30, 1985               0.1             1.1          14.6
December 31, 1985               0.1             1.2           16.0
March 31, 1986                  0.2             1.4           18.7
June 30, 1986                   0.3    0.7      1.7           22.7
FY87    To September 30, 1986               0.3            2.0           26.7
December 31, 1986               0.3             2.3           30.6
March 31, 1987                  0.4             2.7           36.0
June 30, 1987                   0.4    1.4      3.1           41.0
FY88    To September 30, 1987               0.4            3.5           46.7
December 31, 1987               0.5             4.0           53.3
March 31, 1988                  0.4             4.4           58.6
June 30, 1988                   0.4    1.7      4.8           64.0
!!3j   To September 30, 1988                0.3            5.1           68.0
December 31, 1988               0.3             5.4           72.0
March 31, 1989                  0.3             5.7           76.0
June 30, 1989                   0.3    1.2      6.0           80.0
FY90    To September 30, 1989               0.3            6.3           84.0
December 31, 1989               0.2             6.5           86.6
March 31, 1990                  0.2             6.7           89.3
June 30, 1990                   0.2    0.9      6.9           92.0
FY91    To September 30, 1990               0.2             7.1          94.6
December 31, 1990               0.2             7.3           97.3
March 31, 1991                  0.1             7.4           98.7
June 30, 1991                   0.1    0.6      7.5          100.0
US$ 7.5        US$ 7.5
jJ ImportlExport Facility would be made in two disbursements of US$500,000
each (para. 6.10).



-63-                       ANNEX  16
NEPAL
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPIET PROJECT
Supporting Documents Available in Proiect File
A. Economic Environment and IndustriallFinancial Sector
1. NEPAL: Recent Developments and Selected Issues in Trade Promotion,
World Bank Report No. 4663-NEP, October 14, 1983.
2. Economic Survey FY82 and FY83, Ministry of Finance, ENG.
3. Census of Manufacturin2 Establishments, FY77, Central Bureau of
Statistics, National Plauning Commission.
4. Tourism in Nepal, J. Simmons (Working Paper), April 8, 1983.
5. Economic Report, FY81, Nepal Rastra Bank (including Quarterly
Economic Bulletins).
6. Resource Structure of Some Financial Institutions and the Develoment
of Security Market in Nepal, 1980, Securities Marketing Centre, Ltd.
7. Commercial Banking Statistics. May, 1983 Banking Development and Credit
Department, Nepal Rastra Bank.
8. Investors' Guide to Nepal, 1982, Industrial Services Center.
3. Nepal Industrial and Development Corporation
1. Workplan and Budgets, FY83, FY84.
2. Long-form Audit Reports FY80 - FY82.
3. RIDC Act, various financial operational and institutional data.
C. Leather Sector
1. Leather and Leather Goods Subsector, Mission Working Paper No. 1.
2. Modernization of the Bansbari Leather and Shoe Factory, Mission Working
Paper No. 2.
3. Initial Subproiect Review: Proposed Banabari Modernization Project.
4. Initial Subvroiect Review: Proposed Raw Ride Collection Expansion Project.
5. Draft Terms-of-Reference:
(a) RHCDC Hide Collection and Preparation Advisor
(b) Bansbari Tanning and Leather Finishing Advisor
(c) Bansbari Shoe Division Advisors
(d) Cobbler Upgrading Advisor
(e) Process Improvement and Effluent Control Advisor
(f) Leather Industry Advisor
D. Draft Terms-of-Reference for:
(a) Industrial Incentives Study
(b) Light Engineering Sector Study
(c) Tourism Promotion Study



sl0'                                         I7-                                          U'4                                          5h .10                                       1.
, o.) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N E P A L
1<) 1   ,                                                 ~~~~~INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
r    ~~~<,   v +   w^>          + ~~~~Nepal Leather Development Program - Hide CollectLion System    3 
*) .< . ( 4 i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Heoludo Head Officee
3#*    V <   '   v   <,           '             A                                               =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C    Regional Offices
{,, .                                               ?A WETR_0                                                                      Disliric Olfices
y    t    t   S E   T  W gX   .  ~~~~MID  WESTERN                *                                                     ;      National Copilal
(@Mohendfdoagrw5   _    Development Region Boundories
wt 4 J' 4 ' - -- * f tQ t, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Administrative Zoanl Boundaries
\g<Dhanga~dh )iE            I r                           e-.-  Internolionol Boundaries
\Rla Ur;                                            V. 2   , egWESTERN'               ; 
',Gularia           R  A   P  T I                   !K        Pk                                  i
| "'                          'u'-  albosIu    n    _                    f       %        ,  o,   ;       K e~o P k
r~~~~~~ ^w ~~~~~~~~. . f                   .1..  K  bhpiilba t  13I tw ,   G    L    F     r              w    -  nsnrs1    \ J   >na s%j3 
I~~~~                                                     ~       ~      ~ ~~~~~                                               ~      ~~~~ ~~~~~~~ U M--  I  ._  I  __"



