CREDIT NUMBER 1535 NEP
OFFICIAL
DOC U PM
Project Agreement
(Industrial Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated                 1          , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1535 NEP
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1985, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association)   and   NEPAL  INDUSTRIAL   DEVELOPMENT   CORPORATION
(hereinafter called NIDC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Kingdom of Nepal (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 7,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that NIDC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NIDC, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to NIDC on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS NIDC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts A and C of the Project
Management and Operations of NIDC
Section 2.01. NIDC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (a) carry out Parts A
and C of the Project described in said Schedule with due dili-
gence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate tech-
nical,  administrative,   financial,  economic,  accounting  and
investment standards and practices; and (b) conduct its opera-
tions and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards
and practices, with qualified and experienced management and
personnel, and pursuant to the Nepal Industrial Development
Corporation Act, 2016 (1959), as amended to the date of this
Agreement, to the NIDC's Statement of Policy, and to the NIDC's
Strategy Statement.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and the Project
Agreement, NIDC shall submit Sub-loans to the Association for
approval or for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account.
(b) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Association for approval, NIDC shall furnish to
the Association an application, in form and substance satisfac-
tory to the Association, together with (i) a description of the
Beneficiary and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit relent to NIDC under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan;
and (iii) such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
(c) Each request by NIDC for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Beneficiary
and the Investment Project, including a description of the expen-
ditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to NIDC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (ii) the
terms and conditions of such free-limit Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be the
equivalent in the currency of the Borrower (determined as of the
date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account)
of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid
out on account of the cost of goods and services for the Invest-
ment Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit


﻿-3-
allocated pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that the prin-
cipal amount of the Sub-loan or Sub-loans made to any one Bene-
ficiary or for any one Investment Project shall not exceed the
equivalent of $1,500,000.
(e) Sub-loans for fixed investments shall each: (i) have a
maturity of not more than fifteen years including a grace period
of up to three years; (ii) be charged, on the principal amount of
the Sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, inter-
est at the rate of at least 12% per annum, and a commitment
charge at the rate of at least one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Sub-loan not with-
drawn from time to time.
(f) Sub-loans for permanent working capital shall only be
made in conjunction with a Sub-loan for fixed investments, and
each shall: (i) have a maturity of not more than seven years
including a grace period of up to three years; (ii) be charged,
on the principal amount of the Sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, interest at the rate of at least 15% per
annum, and a commitment charge at the rate of at least one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Sub-loan not withdrawn from time to time.
(g) For purposes of this Section: (i) the term "fixed in-
vestments" means machinery and equipment, civil works and related
services required for an Investment Project, and the term "perma-
nent working capital" means the initial materials inputs required
for an Investment Project.
(h) NIDC shall inform the Association, for its prior
approval, of any substantial change proposed to be made by NIDC
in respect of the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.
(i) Except as the Association and NIDC shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests permitted pursuant to the
provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be
presented to the Association on or before March 31, 1989.
Section 2.03. NIDC shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by the NIDC of its obligations under this Agreement
or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿Section 2.04. (a) NIDC undertakes that, unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan shall be made on terms
whereby NIDC shall obtain, by written contract with the Benefi-
ciary or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Association and NIDC, including: (i)
that the Beneficiary shall carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to main-
tain adequate records and accounts; (ii) that: (A) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also
of other relevant factors, such as time of delivery and effi-
ciency and reliability of the goods and availability of main-
tenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them; and (B) such goods and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii)
that: (A) the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in
such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business prac-
tice; and (B) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the
Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods; (iv) the right to
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Asso-
ciation, if the Association shall so request, such goods and the
sites, works, plants and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (v) the right to obtain all such information as the
Association or NIDC shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived
from the Investment Project, including, audited financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association and NIDC; and (vi)
the right to suspend or terminate disbursements under the Sub-
loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations
under its contract with NIDC.
(b) NIDC shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the


﻿-5-
interests of the Association and NIDC; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment; and (iii) achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.05. In addition to the provisions of Section 2.02
of this Agreement, Sub-loans made or to be made to the Bansbari
Leather and Shoe Factory Ltd. and to the Raw Hide Collection and
Development Corporation Ltd. shall exclusively be made for the
expansion   and  modernization   of   their   leather  production
activities, and only after NIDC shall have obtained from the
Borrower, a repayment guarantee satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.06. In order to assist NIDC in carrying out Part C
of the Project, NIDC shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association, such consultants to be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.07. NIDC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other agreements under
which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the disposal of
NIDC by the Borrower or its agencies or third parties for relend-
ing, investing or management purposes. NIDC shall promptly inform
the Association of any action which would have the effect of
assigning, amending, abrogating, suspending or waiving the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof, or any material
provision of such other agreements.
Section 2.08. (a) NIDC shall furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit in respect of Parts A and C of the Project, the carry-
ing out of Parts A and C of the Project, the Beneficiaries, the
Investment Projects, the Sub-loans and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
(b) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as the Borrower and the Association may so agree,
NIDC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of Parts A and C
of the Project, their costs and the benefits derived and to be


﻿derived from them, the performance by NIDC and the Association of
their respective obligations under this Agreement, the perfor-
mance of the Borrower and NIDC of their respective obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.09. NIDC shall cause each of the Subsidiaries to
observe and perform the obligations of NIDC under this Agreement
to the extent to which the same may be applicable thereto as
though such obligations were binding upon each of such Subsid-
iaries.
Section 2.10. Except as the Association and NIDC shall
otherwise agree, NIDC shall: (a) not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, except in
the ordinary course of business; and (b) take all such action
as shall be necessary to maintain its corporate existence and
right to carry on its operations, and to acquire, maintain and
renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary or
u6eful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.11. Except as the Association and NIDC shall
otherwise mutually agree, NIDC shall, in connection with its
appraisal of Investment Projects and prior to approving any Sub-
loan for any such Investment Project, calculate the internal
financial rates of return for all such Investment Projects
estimated to cost the equivalent of 2,000,000 Nepalese Rupees or
more, and calculate the internal financial and economic rates of
return for all such Investment Projects estimated to cost the
equivalent of 5,000,000 Nepalese Rupees or more.
Section 2.12. NIDC shall use in its lending operations a
standard form of loan agreement in form and substance satisfac-
tory to the Association.
Section 2.13. NIDC shall at all times adequately supervise
its loan and investment portfolio in accordance with standards
for supervision satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. NIDC shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of Parts A and C of


﻿-7-
the Project and of each Investment Project (including its costs
and the benefits to be derived from it), and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of NIDC.
Section 3.02. NIDC shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than five months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnisa to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial state-
ments of NIDC and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, NIDC shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 3.07 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
NIDC's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio
within such limit.
Section 3.04. NIDC shall not make any repayment in advance
of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of NIDC which, in
the judgement of the Association, would adversely affect NIDC's
ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.05. NIDC shall:
(a) take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice; and
(b) carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical,
economic and investment standards and practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.06. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
NIDC shall:
(a) on the date on which it shall receive the first payment
or other charges on, or repayment of principal under, the Sub-
loans, open and, thereafter, maintain a separate account on its
books in accordance with its normal financial procedures, and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)  upon receipt of each such payment or repayment under
the Sub-loans, credit the same to the said separate account. All
amounts so credited to the said separate account shall be util-
ized by NIDC, to the extent they are not yet required to meet
NIDC's repayment obligations to the Borrower under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, to finance Sub-loans pursuant to the provisions
of this Agreement, with preference for export-oriented Investment
Projects; and
(c)   prepare and furnish to the Association at regular
intervals all such information, in form and substance satisfac-
tory to the Association, as the Association shall reasonably
request on the status of said separate account and on the utili-
zation of the amounts credited thereto pursuant to paragraph (b)
of this Section.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, NIDC shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary to incur any
debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt
of NIDC and all the Subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding
would be greater than 5 times the consolidated capital and sur-
plus of NIDC and all the Subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a)  "debt" means any debt incurred by NIDC or any Subsid-
iary maturing more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement)
on the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn
down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement,
and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to
the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;


﻿-9
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Nepalese Rupees debt payable in
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by NIDC for the purposes of
servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of NIDC and all the Subsidiaries"
means the total amount of debt of NIDC and the Subsidiaries,
excluding any debt owed by NIDC to any Subsidiary or by any
Subsidiary to NIDC or to any other Subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of NIDC and the Sub-
sidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up capital,
surplus and free reserves of NIDC and the Subsidiaries after
excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity
interests of NIDC in any Subsidiary or of any Subsidiary in NIDC
or any other Subsidiary.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, NIDC shall maintain, in each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on July 15, 1984, a ratio of not less than 1.1
to 1 of the sum of its cash generated from operation and cash
repayments of its debtors for loan principal, to the sum of all
debt service requirements of its debts then incurred and out-
standing, calculated on the basis of the actual figures for the
preceeding twelve months. For the purpose of this Section:
(a) the term "cash generated from operations" means the
aggregate amount of: (i) net profit after taxes but before
provision of depreciation; (ii) other non-cash expenses less
interest and other charges on loans not collected; and (iii)
interest and other charges on loans actually collected;
(b) the   term   "debt  service   requirements"  means  the
aggregate  amount of:   (i) principal   amortization, including
sinking fund contributions, if any; and (ii) interest and other
charges on NIDC's debts then incurred and outstanding, and which
are due and payable during the fiscal year in question;
(c) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
or credit contract or agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount of the loan
or credit is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan or
credit contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee


﻿- 10 -
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into but only to the extent that the guarantee
debt is outstanding; and
(d) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Nepalese Rupees debt payable in
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by NIDC for the purpose of
servicing such debt.
Section 3.09. NIDC shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including Nepalese Rupees) used in its
lending and borrowing operations.
Section 3.10. The Association and NIDC shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of NIDC and the Subsidiaries, and
NIDC shall: (a) furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
administration, operations and financial condition of NIDC and
the Subsidiaries and other matters relating to the purpose of the
Credit; and (b) enable the Association's representatives to
examine any relevant records and documents thereto.
Section 3.11. NIDC shall adopt and, thereafter, maintain and
apply, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association,
NIDC's Statement of Policy and NIDC's Strategy Statement, and,
thereafter, shall not amend in a substantive and material manner,
the NIDC's Statement of Policy or the NIDC's Strategy Statement
without the Association's prior agreement.
Section 3.12. NIDC shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to expedite prompt payment from its debtors, including
payments on overdue accounts, so that the aggregate amount of
arrears of principal and interest of its debtors shall not exceed
NIDC's unimpaired capital and surplus.
Section 3.13. In the event that NIDC shall fail to comply
with the provisions of Section 3.08 of this Agreement, and such
failure to comply shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to NIDC,


﻿- 11 -
then without in any way limiting, restricting or impairing any
right, power or remedy of the Association under the Development
Credit Agreement and this Agreement, the Association may with-
hold further approval and authorization of Sub-loans, including
authorizations for withdrawal applications from the Credit
Account in respect of free-limit Sub-loans approved by NIDC after
the date the Association dispatches notice to that effect to the
Borrower and to NIDC.
Section 3.14. The provisions of Sections 2.02 (h), 3.01,
3.02, 3.04, 3.07 and 3.11 of this Agreement supersede the
provisions of Sections 2.02 (e), 3.01, 3.02, 3.04, 3.05 and 2.08
of the Prior Credit Agreement, respectively.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of NIDC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
NIDC of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿- 12 -
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For NIDC:
Nepal Industrial Development
Corporation
NIDC Building
Durbar Marga
Kathmandu, Nepal
Cable address:                    Telex: 2369 NP
NIDC
Kathmandu
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NIDC may be taken or executed by its
General Manager or such other person or persons as NIDC shall
designate in writing, and NIDC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By               0- a~~1CO  V,e
Regional Vice President
South Asia
NEPAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By                  Autho8e RerL
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of \    'R "C
198
FOR SECRETARY


