Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15068-POL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POLAND
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 3, 1995
Energy, Environment and Transport Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of January 1, 1995)
Currency unit  =  Zloty (Zl)
Zi  1  =  US$ 0.41
US$ 1  =  ZI  2.44
WEIGHTS   AND   MEASURES
(Metric and International Systems)
Gcal         Cigacalorie (one million kilocalories)
GJ          Cigajoule (0.034 tons of coal equivalent or 109 joule)
kcal        Kilocalorie (4187 joule)
kV          Kilovolt
kWh         Kilowatthour
Mt          Million tons
Mtce        Million tons of coal equivalent (0.65 Mtoe, or 29.3 PJ)
Mtoe        Million tons of oil equivalent (1.54 Mtce, or 45.1 PJ)
MVA         Megavolt Ampere
MWe         Megawatt electric (1,000 kilowatts)
MWt         Megawatt thermal (0.86 Gcal/h)
PJ           Petajoule (34,129 tons of coal equivalent or 1015 joule)
TJ          Terajoule (34.1 tons of coal equivalent or 1012 joule)
TOE         Ton of oil equivalent (42.7 GJ)
TWh         Terawatthour (1012 Wh)
ABBREVIATIONS
AC          Alternating Current
CHP         Combined Heat and Power Plant
DC          Direct Current
DHE         District Heating Enterprise
EdF         Electricite de France
ERG         Energy Restructuring Group
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
ESMAP       Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
EU          European Union
FGD         Flue Gas Desulfurization
FSU          Former Soviet Union
GIS          Gas-Insulated Switchgear
HOB          Heat-Only Boiler
LA          Loan Agreement
PCBs        Poly-Chlorinated Biphenyls
PPGC        Polish Power Grid Company (PSE)
SECAL       Sector Adjustment Loan
SOE         State-Owned Enterprise
UCPTE        Union  for  the  Coordination  of  Production  and Transmission  of
Electricity
POLANID - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Loan  and Project  Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  vii
PART  I - INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 1
PART  II  - THE  SECTOR   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               2
A.   Economic  Significance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              2
B.   Sector Restructuring   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               3
a.   Development  Policy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           3
b.   Demonopolization,  Commercialization and Restructuring  . .                           3
c.   Energy  Pricing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           4
d.   Energy Regulatory Framework  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            5
C.   Power  Sector   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              5
a.   Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            5
b.   Generation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            6
c.   Transmission  and Distribution  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           6
d.   Power Demand   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            7
e.   Power  Sector Restructuring   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           8
D.   Environmental  Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
E.   Bank Sector Assistance  Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
PART  III  - THE BORROWER  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
A.   Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
B.   Staff and Training   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
C.   Project  Preparation  and  Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
D.   Functions  of PPGC  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
E.   Integrated Resource  Planning   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
This report is based on the rindings of an appraisal mission which visited Poland in November 1993. The mission
comprised Messrs. H. Busz (Task Manager), R. Benmessaoud (Energy Planner), J. Cai (Economist/Financial Analyst) and
B. Baratz (Environmental Expert). H. Schreiber (Environmental Economist) contributed. Peer reviewers were H. Garcia
and J. Besant-Jones. The project was redefrned in January 1995. The report was issued by the Energy, Environment and
Transport Division (H. Apitz, Chief) of the Central Europe Department (K. Dervis, Director).



- iv -
PART    IV    -   THE   PROJECT    .                         .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  18
A.    Project  Objectives  and  Scope    . .  . .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    18
B.   Project  Cost  and  Financing  Plan  . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .    19
C.    Environmental  Assessment    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    20
D.    Procurement  Arrangements    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    21
E.       Disbursements                     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  23
F.       Implementation                         .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  24
PART  V  -  FINANCIAL    ASPECTS   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                                                                              25
A.   Past Performance and Present Position  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
B.       Financing    Plan                      .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  27
C.   Future  Financial  Performance    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
PART  VI  - BENEFITS  OF  THE  PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    29
A.       Project   Benefits                          .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  29
B.       Major   Risks                .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  30
PART VII  - AGREEMENTS  AND  CONDITIONS    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30



v 
ANNEXES
Annex 1-1          Documents Available in the Project File
Annex 2-1          National Energy Balance
Annex 2-2          The Power Sector
Annex 2-3          The Current Network Condition
Annex 3-1          PPGC Organization Chart
Annex 3-2          Transmission Assets Transfer
Annex 3-3          Electricity Tariff Structure
Annex 3-4          Least-Cost Power Generation Investment Program
Annex 4-1          Project Description
Annex 4-2          Project Costs
Annex 4-3          Procurement Schedule
Annex 4-4          Disbursements Schedule
Annex 4-5          Project Implementation Plan
Annex 4-6          Supervision Action Plan
Annex 5-1          Financial Statements, 1993-2001
Annex 6-1          Economic Rate of Return Calculation
MAP                IBRD - 25502



POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          The Polish Power Grid Company (PPGC).
Guarantor:         Republic of Poland.
Amount:            US$160 million equivalent.
Terms:             Currency pool loan with a maturity of 17 years, including four
years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project
Objectives:        The project's objectives are to: (a) improve the reliability
of the existing high voltage grid through rehabilitation and
reinforcement; (b) enhance security of power supply in Poland
by interconnecting the Polish power grid with that of Western
Europe, thus improving Poland's power trade and wheeling
capability; (c) improve the network's operational performance
and control through transmission loss reduction and improved
dispatching, thereby enhancing energy conservation and
efficiency;  (d)  reduce  environmental  pollution;  and  (e)
enhance PPGC's institutional capabilities. The project takes
place within the framework of the continuing policy dialogue
with the Government regarding the energy sector restructuring
program, particularly as it relates to achieving further
improvement in energy pricing policies and introduction of a
sound regulatory framework.
Proj ect
Description:       The project comprises: (a) investments in rehabilitation and
upgrading of key substations and modernization of high voltage
transmission lines; and (b) technical assistance to PPGC.
Benefits:          The project has an estimated rate of return of 21%, using
PPGC's incremental transmission revenues as a proxy for the
economic benefits.   In qualitative terms benefits can be
described  as  follows:    (a)  enhanced  reliability  of  the
transmission system; (b) reduced transmission losses and
operation and maintenance costs; (c) increased income from
power wheeling and exports; and (d) reduced environmental
pollution.
Risks:             The main risk associated with the project is the possibility
of delayed increases in electricity prices.   Such a delay
could negatively affect PPGC's internal cash flow, needed for
further  system  improvements.       However,  this  risk  is
manageable, given the Government's commitment to energy price
reform  as  demonstrated  by  energy  pricing  adjustments
undertaken since 1990 and its efforts to introduce an energy



- viii -
regulatory framework, combined with recent favorable changes
in asset revaluation and depreciation policy. Furthermore,
the project's cash flow is based on the conservative
assumption of zero price increases in real terms over the
medium term.   Price  decreases  in real  terms  are highly
unlikely over the medium term and would, in first instance,
only lead to a slowing down of the pace of investments and
their associated benefits.   The risk of procurement and
implementation delays are manageable because: (a) PPGC has set
up a procurement unit that has received training from
specialized Bank staff; (b) adequate staff has been allocated
to the different project management activities. This staff
could, if necessary, be assisted by consultants who would
provide both functional support as well as training under the
project's technical assistance component; and (c) tight
reporting schedules on procurement and implementation progress
during supervision.
Poverty
Category:          Not applicable.



- ix -
Estimated Costs:
US$ Million
PROJECT COMPONENTS
Local    Foreign     Total
A. System Rehabilitation and Modernization                65.1      102.5     167.6
- Substations                                      51.9       74.2      126.1
- Lines                                             13.2      28.3       41.5
B. Technical Assistance                                   0.8        2.5        3.3
PROJECT BASE COSTS                           65.9      105.0     170.9
C. Contingencies:                                         12.7      31.0       43.7
- Price Contingencies                               6.5       20.4       26.9
- Physical Contingencies                            6.2       10.6       16.8
D. Import Duties and Taxes                               29.3                  29.3
E. Interest During Construction                                     31.8       31.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         107.9      167.8     275.7
Financing Plan:
_________ =US$ Million
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Local     Foreign     Total
IBRD                                                               160.0      160.0
PPGC                                                    107.9        7.8      115.7
TOTAL                              107.9      167.8     275.7
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
IBRD FY
FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99    FY2000   FY2001
Annual                           9.6     19.2    38.4    32.0        51.2       9.6
Cumulative                       9.6     28.8    67.2    99.2       150.4    160.0
Percentage                       6%       18%     42%      62%       94%      100%
Economic Rate of Return: 21%
Map:                IBRD 25502
Product ID No.:   PL-PA-8604



PART I - INTRODUCTION
1.    In the context of its Economic Transformation Program (1990), the Polish
Government sought Bank cooperation to develop an energy policy that would enhance
efficiency and increase competition in the sector. Implementation started with
the Energy Resource Development Project (Loan 3215-POL), followed by the Heat
Supply Restructuring and Conservation Project (Loans 3377/83-POL) which included
a Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL; Loan 3377-POL); and the Katowice Heat Supply and
Conservation Project (Loan 3809-POL). The SECAL supported a comprehensive energy
sector restructuring program, including price liberalization, commercialization
and privatization of energy sector enterprises where possible, and introduction
of a sound and consistent regulatory framework.
2.    The Polish Power Grid Company (PPGC) was the first enterprise in the
electric power sector to become a joint stock company.   The company is fully
owned by the Treasury, represented by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. PPGC
plays a pivotal role in the sector because of its dispatching and system planning
functions and because it has taken a lead role in defining, and seeking to
resolve, the issues related to the profound restructuring that the sector is
going through. The Government asked the Bank to assist in the preparation of a
high priority power transmission project to improve the reliability of the power
grid and reduce transmission losses, as well as to cooperate in sector investment
planning and in issues related to the proper functioning of PPGC in a
restructured power sector.
3.    Poland  is strategically  located between Eastern and Western Europe.
Because of its geographical position, the efficient interconnection and future
development of the European power network depends to a large extent on Poland's
ability to upgrade its power system in order to fully meet the performance and
interconnection criteria of the (West European) Union for the Coordination of
Production and Transmission of Electricity (UCPTE).
4.    However, a satisfactory performance of the Polish power system within the
European context can only be achieved by first ensuring a reliable domestic
system. The proposed US$276 million project aims to help achieve that goal. The
amount of the proposed Bank loan is US$160 million, covering 95% of the foreign
exchange costs of the project, or 58% of the total project costs after import
duties and taxes. The Bank loan would also cover interest during construction
on the loan amount given the length of the project's construction period and the
fact that the Bank loan would constitute only a modest portion of PPGC's overall
investment program financing requirements. The remaining project costs would be
funded by PPGC from net internal cash generation.
5.    Documents and detailed information concerning the sector and the project
are available in the Project File (Annex 1-1).



PART 11 - THE SECTOR
A. Economic Significance
6.    The energy sector is one of the largest sectors of the Polish economy.
Energy intensity is estimated to be about two times as high as in European OECD
countries on a purchasing power of currency estimate of GDP basis, although per
capita energy consumption is at about 60% of the OECD level. New energy pricing
policies, introduced starting in 1990, have led to price levels and structures
that are now beginning to provide incentives for energy conservation and
efficiency.   The Government is no longer providing funding for energy sector
investments. The more efficient energy enterprises are beginning to have cash
flows which allow them to self-finance minor investments. Government subsidies
for energy production are now only provided to a small number of coal mines,
while subsidies for household consumption of heat have been reduced from 78% in
1991 to about 10% at the beginning of 1995. The fiscal impact of these policies
has been a dramatic reduction in energy sector outlays in the Government budget.
7.    Poland's energy sector consists of five subsectors: two energy producing
subsectors (hard coal/lignite and oil/gas), two energy conversion subsectors
(electric power and district heating), and one energy processing subsector (oil
refining).   Together,  they account  for about  10% of the country's  total
investments. The energy sector accounts for about 8% of GDP and directly employs
4% of the working population.
8.    Energy consumption  in Poland decreased substantially  as  the  economy
experienced a sharp decline starting in 1990 while energy prices were being
increased significantly. Industrial energy consumption declined by 31% through
1992 primarily due to the contraction in output in many industrial sectors and
closure or downsizing of several major energy-intensive industries. Residential
energy consumption decreased by 14% because of a considerable reduction in real
household incomes and proportionally larger increases in residential energy
prices. Corresponding to this, domestic energy production dropped by 20% for
coal and 25% for natural gas.   Coal exports decreased by almost one third.
Energy imports (mainly oil and natural gas) also decreased considerably due to
the overall decline in domestic energy consumption. As energy prices are moving
towards economic levels, energy consumption patterns are changing: the share of
coal, while still dominant, is declining in final consumption, and the share of
oil and gas is increasing. This process would accelerate when the current supply
constraints on natural gas decrease (para. 9). Details on energy production and
consumption are in Annex 2-1.
9.    The most crucial issue in energy trade is Poland's exclusive dependence on
Russia (via the Ukraine) for all its gas imports. Poland is concerned that the
economic and political situation there, and its potential impact on gas
production and transmission, could interrupt supplies. Hence, Poland is actively
examining alternative gas supply options such as supplies coming via a new
pipeline through Belarus, the Britannia field in the North Sea, or supplies from
Norway. These new supplies, however, are likely to be much more expensive than
the price of gas currently supplied by Russia (although that price is likely to
be revised upwards as well).   The Government and the Bank have an ongoing



- 3 -
dialogue regarding the various gas import proposals and the guarantee issues
related to take-or-pay contracts.
B. Sector Restructuring
a. Development Policy
10.   Under the energy SECAL (Loan 3377-POL) of the Heat Supply Restructuring and
Conservation Project, the Government undertook to implement a comprehensive
energy sector restructuring program.   Major changes have been and are being
implemented in the energy sector in order to make it more competitive and viable.
Firstly, most subsectors have been demonopolized and restructured. Secondly,
many of the state-owned enterprises have been converted into joint stock or
limited liability companies. Privatization of selected companies would follow
as soon as possible, but the speed of the process depends on a number of factors
(e.g., political will, allowed return on equity, etc.).  Thirdly, energy prices
have been adjusted considerably. Fourthly, a new Energy Law will be introduced
which would, inter alia, put an appropriate regulatory framework into place and
create an Energy Regulatory Agency.   The regulatory framework would aim to
enhance competition, allow open access to new entrants, protect consumers and
avoid distortions in investment decisions between "network" fuels (district heat,
gas and electric power). Good progress was made under the SECAL in implementing
this energy sector restructuring program. However, continued implementation of
the Government's energy sector strategy is important, inter alia, in order to
enable private sector participation in development of the energy sector. Further
progress needs to be made in adjusting energy prices towards economic levels and
in introducing the new regulatory framework, and the Bank is continuing its
dialogue with the Government on these issues (paras. 14-15).
b. DemonoRolization. Commercialization and Restructuring
11.   A February 1993 law transferred the responsibility for commercialization
of the power and coal sectors to the Ministry of Industry.  Sixty three coal
mines have been grouped into seven commercialized multi-mine companies and three
commercialized single-mine companies. A closure program for 8 out of the total
of 71 mines has been initiated, and part or all of 4-5 other mines is expected
to be slated for closure. The power sector has been demonopolized into separate
transmission, generation and distribution companies. The transmission company
(the Polish Power Grid Company - PPGC), the 33 distribution companies and three
out of 34 generating plants have been commercialized.   The remaining 31
generation enterprises would be commercialized after their merger into a small
number of competitive generating companies has taken place. The Polish Oil and
Gas Company, the last remaining monopoly, would be commercialized by the end of
1995,  to be followed by separation of the service companies.   To enhance
competition, the first exploration and production licenses were awarded (to AMOCO
and British Gas). However, some contractual issues still need to be resolved
before exploration and production will start in earnest. Licensing rounds for
other acreage and for coal-bed methane exploration and production took place in
October 1992 and contracts were signed by AMOCO (IFC made a US$8.7 million equity
investment in an AMOCO-operated coalbed methane project) and McCormick. In the
district heating sector, significant restructuring and commercialization is
underway with a new emphasis on network efficiency improvements, energy



- 4 -
conservation, cost reduction and competitiveness with other heat sources. About
100 out of 500 DHEs have been commercialized, including those of Gdansk, Gdynia
and Krakow, all Borrowers under the Bank's Heat Supply Restructuring and
Conservation Project.   Those enterprises have started to spin off service
companies which, in several instances, have been privatized. Six small DHEs have
been privatized, which makes the district heating sector the first energy sector
in Poland where actual privatization of operating companies took place. However,
it is unlikely that privatization of larger energy enterprises, such as
electricity generating plants,will occur in the near future. Finally, in the
petroleum sector all activities (refining, transmission and distribution) are
generally still in the hands of State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs), although there
are some joint ventures and fully independent companies on the distribution end.
The Government is in the process of defining its position with regard to the
future ownership structure of the petroleum sector.
c. Energy Pricing
12.   Energy price  reform has made major progress  since  1990.   Although
significant further adjustments remain necessary for prices to reach economic
levels, the impact is beginning to be felt in the areas of energy efficiency and
conservation and reduction of pollution. The main elements of the reform include
coal price liberalization, increase of industrial energy prices towards economic
levels, and gradual increases of household energy prices first to the level paid
by industrial consumers and then to levels reflecting economic costs.  After
major price adjustments of all network fuels through January 1, 1992, the
Government slowed down the pace of energy price increases. However, the system
of approximately quarterly price adjustments is expected to result in modest real
price increases over the medium term. Network fuel prices, though still being
controlled, are now on average at about 60% of their estimated economic levels,
with individual fuels ranging from 50-100% depending on tariff categories.
Network fuel tariff studies have been completed under terms of reference and with
consultants satisfactory to the Bank and could provide the Government with
guidance for the economic pricing of network fuels.
13.   Coal prices ex mine, now being set virtually freely by the market, have
almost reached import parity levels (adjusted for quality) following major price
increases during the last quarter of 1993.  In addition, coal mine operating
subsidies have been eliminated, except for those mines that are being closed
down.   Coal export controls have been suspended. As of September 1, 1994,
electricity prices for industry and households were at about 61% and 51% of their
estimated economic levels, respectively. The average residential price is about
138% of the average industrial price (less than 50% in early 1990). The average
gas price for industry is now at 100% of its economic level. The gas price for
households is at 61% of its economic level; it is now at about 140% of the price
for industry (16% in early 1990). District heating contract prices have moved
to about 63% of their economic level and the Government reduced subsidies to
households from 78% in 1991 to about 10% as of January 1, 1995. These subsidies
have already been eliminated in many major cities and are expected to be
eliminated in most of the country by the end of 1996.
14.   Given that the SECAL's pricing conditionality was met, the Bank and the
Government started a policy dialogue on how to proceed with price adjustment from



here on to ensure that energy prices would reach economic levels.   A key factor
in the Government's decision-making process about energy pricing should be the
fact that most of the resources for the energy sector's huge investment needs
would have to be generated domestically. Given the scarcity of budget funds, as
well as for reasons of economic efficiency, these would have to come from the
sector's internal cash flow and from borrowing. Foreign direct investment also
has a vital role to play, but such capital, as well as internal and external
borrowings, will only be forthcoming if there is a transparent regulatory
framework and if energy prices are allowed to fully reflect economic costs.
d. Energy Regulatory Framework
15.   The Government has prepared a draft energy law for presentation to the
Parliament. This law would set up the future energy regulatory framework and
establish the Energy Regulatory Agency. As it stands, the draft provides for
competition in the network fuel subsectors and for open access to new entrants.
The Energy Regulatory Agency would have adequate autonomy, subject to overall
accountability to the Council of Ministers.  The draft law is expected to be
submitted to Parliament in the Fall of 1995. The Bank/ESMAP will cooperate with
the drafting of secondary legislation, permits, licenses, statutes and training
of personnel for the future Energy Regulatory Agency.
C. Power Sector
a. Organization
16.   The power sector underwent substantial demonopolization and divestiture.
Until September 1990 it consisted of 106 enterprises combined in the Power and
Lignite Board.  Upon dissolution of the Power and Lignite Board, all service
enterprises were spun off into joint stock companies. The sector now consists
of 68 autonomous enterprises specialized in the generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity. There are 34 thermal power and combined heat and
power generating enterprises; 33 distribution enterprises, who also own 113 small
hydro plants and one pumped storage plant; and one transmission company (PPGC)
which also owns four pumped storage plants.
17.   Electricity dispatching is done by PPGC, which is moving towards a merit
order dispatching system. It has set separate capacity and energy charges and
has curtailed its power purchases from more expensive generators.  These are
vital steps towards a new system, with major implications for both efficient as
well as inefficient producers. Equally importantly, power purchase agreements
are now being introduced. These elements constitute the corner stones of an open
and competitive power sector (para. 33).
18.   Through its national dispatch center and five regional dispatch centers,
PPGC maintains optimum electricity supply and transmission efficiency and
reliability, and manages international power exchanges and transits (para 46).



-6-
b. Generation
19.   As of the end of 1993, the Polish power sector had an installed capacity
of 32,750 MW0; 90% of this belongs to the power industry and 10% to industrial
auto-producers. The power industry generates most of its electricity through
thermal power plants (condensing units: 22,078 MW9, combined heat and power
units: 5,353 MW.) and the remaining 2,007 MWe through hydropower plants. In
addition to electricity generation, the power industry supplies heat to district
heating networks in fifty major cities. Its total available thermal capacity is
about 26,940 MWt, of which 11,435 MWt in CHP units and 15,505 MWt in large HOBs.
On average, CHP plants account for 66% of the power sector's total heat
production, but for only 10% of total electricity generation. Thus, while CHP
is crucial to heat supply, it constitutes still a relatively small portion of
electric power production. This situation should be reversed over time, since
increased use of CHP is energy efficient, relatively non-polluting, and increases
heat network dispatchability.
20.    Generating capacity is designed primarily for burning hard coal (66%) and
lignite (28%), while the remaining 6% is provided by hydro plants. About 39% of
the energy generated by the sector is produced by lignite-fired plant, 52% by
coal-fired plant, 3% by hydro plant and 6% by individual autoproducers. However,
up to half of the electricity currently purchased by PPGC during peak season is
produced by the large lignite generators. Implementation of the power tariff
study's recommendations should ensure that the true costs of lignite and its
environmental impact are adequately reflected. Coal-fired thermal power plant
are designed to operate under base load rather than cyclical conditions. They
have the ability to turn down to approximately 80% of rated output.  However,
because of the mix of generating plant within the system, i.e., CHP operating as
base load during the winter and not subject to merit order dispatch, together
with very limited peaking capacity comprising principally pumped storage plants,
the thermal generating units are obliged to operate under a reduced two shift
operation mode or be completely shut down, especially during the low demand
period in summer. This situation should change over time, as older base load
capacity is retired and as operationally more flexible power plants are
introduced.   The latter could be either through the use of gas turbines for
peaking or through thermal generating plants with the ability to turn down to 40%
of rated output. However, increased use of CHP will remain necessary for more
cost-effective and efficient heat generation compared to using polluting and
inefficient local heat-only-boilers.
21.   The Polish power system has many units which have passed their design life.
By 1998, when new emission standards go into effect, 17% of capacity will have
an average age of about 35 years; 47% of capacity will be about 29 years old.
Poor instrumentation and automation control and the use of high ash coal are
other factors contributing to a low average plant availability of 75-85%,
compared to 85-90% for Western Europe (including scheduled maintenance). Poland
has currently no nuclear generating capacity and none is planned.
c. Transmission and Distribution
22.   The Polish high voltage transmission grid comprises four voltage levels:
750, 400, 220 and 110 kV.  The 750 kV line was completed in 1984, the 400 kV



- 7 -
system in 1964 and the 220 kV system in 1952. The 110 kV system is much older
and is in some areas in significant need of rehabilitation. Most CHP plants are
integrated into the 110 kV network. The 110 kV network currently operates on an
interconnected basis throughout the country with the exception of the Katowice
area, where it is sectionalized in order to limit fault levels.  Most of the
large generators (200 MW unit rating) are connected to the 220 kV network, which
represents a partial overlay of the existing 110 kV system. The 400 kV system
originally played a limited role. When established its principal function was
power wheeling, particularly from the Ukraine to the Czech Republic, and power
exchange with the former East Germany. During recent years the 400 kV system was
further developed to permit bulk power transfer within the country. However,
neither the 400 kV nor the 220 kV systems adequately offload the 110 kV system.
This results in significant losses in the 110 kV system as it must fulfill the
dual roles of subtransmission and distribution system.
23.   Medium and low voltage networks are poorly designed and obsolete in some
places, lack connecting and safety devices, and need major rehabilitation.
Transmission and distribution losses in Poland average over 14%, compared to 7-8%
in Western European countries of comparable size. About 85% of these losses are
in distribution networks.   PPGC's proposed investment program, of which the
proposed project is an integral part, would offload the underlying networks and
transport power on a much more efficient basis, resulting in a reduction in power
losses of about 120 GWh/year.
24.   Various studies were undertaken to determine the optimal sequencing for
transmission system investments: (a) a UCPTE study, which provides an assessment
of the transmission modernization and reinforcement required to permit
interconnection with Western Europe; and (b) a long-term power system development
study (para. 68), which defines network configuration to the year 2010. Both
studies identified transmission projects needed in the immediate future that both
meet the long-term development needs of the system and that satisfy the
requirements of UCPTE and which are typical of requirements that any power system
should meet to have secure and efficient system operations. These projects are
part of PPGC's proposed investment program. More detail on the power sector and
the current network condition is provided in Annexes 2-2 and 2-3.
d. Power Demand
25.   Electricity demand increased at 2.2% per annum during 1980-88 and peaked
at 149 TWh in 1988.   Since then it decreased to 131 TWh in 1993.  The gross
reserve margin of the system is about 25-30%, typical for a thermal system.
However, since the winter peaks are pronounced in Poland, during the remainder
of the year the margins may go up to 40-50%.
26.   The future demand for electricity depends not only on economic growth but
also on the combined effects of structural changes in the economy and measures
to enhance energy conservation and efficiency. The complexity of the transition
towards a market economy, the uncertainty about the pace of implementation of
structural reform and the impact of continuous energy price adjustments have made
the preparation of a reliable medium term electricity demand forecast very
difficult.



27.   Since  1991,  various  Polish  and  foreign  agencies  have  carried  out
electricity demand forecasts using different methods.   For example,  demand
forecasts prepared by the Paris-based International Energy Agency and the Polish
Ministry of Industry and Trade were carried out by following mainly the
traditional income elasticity approach, while other demand forecasts by Polish
research institutes were prepared with additional technical, microeconomic and
population variables as determinants.   Despite the differences in focus and
methods, these forecasts generally agree on the trend of the future electricity
demand.   Most predict slightly decreasing demand through 1994 and gradually
increasing demand thereafter.
28.   In addition to the above PPGC, in cooperation with foreign consultants,
recently also prepared a demand forecast using the current assessment of
macroeconomic developments.   Three scenarios of electricity demand, based on
alternative GDP growth scenarios (high, medium and low growth), were used. The
low GDP growth scenario was chosen as the base case both for the least cost
investment plan (para. 68) as well as for the power tariff study (para. 58). It
estimates that electricity demand through 1994 would remain at the 1990 level,
and that demand between 1995 and 2000 would grow at approximately 2.5% per annum.
This appears realistic, in view of the Bank's own assumption of an annual GDP
growth rate of about 5% starting in 1995 and consumer elasticity of demand in
response to further price increases.   Therefore, this scenario has also been
retained for the financial and economic calculations in this report.
e. Power Sector Restructuring
29.   Mergers.   Conform the Government's 1991 letter of sector development
policy, the existing 34 generating enterprises would be regrouped into a smaller
number of joint stock companies. The merger criteria would be competitiveness
and financial viability. The hard coal-fired generating plants would be grouped
into a maximum of four companies  (representing about 4,000 MW each).   The
lignite-fired power plants and their adjacent lignite mines would be combined
into three generating companies. The lignite-fired plants would have capacities
of 4300 MW, 2500 MW and 2000 MW, respectively. Additionally, there would be 19
CHP companies.
30.   The number of distribution companies would remain at the present 33.  Six
of these would serve a minimum of 150,000 consumers, and 27 would serve more than
200,000 customers each. It was felt that the current size of the distribution
companies was appropriate and that the benefits of mergers would be far
outweighed by the costs, including loss of contact with customers. In addition,
the current bulk tariff structure for distributors virtually ensures that prices
for end-users would probably not vary by more than 20% throughout the country.
31.   Energy Law and Regulatory Framework.   It is expected that the proposed
energy law (para. 15) would notably: (a) create an independent Energy Regulatory
Agency; (b) allow the existence of different forms of ownership; (c) encourage
competition within generation; (d) reduce the natural monopoly within
transmission and distribution by applying third party access rules; and (e)
mandate integrated resource planning.



- 9 -
32.   The Energy Regulatory Agency would be an autonomous body.   While the
natural monopoly parts of the industry would continue to be regulated, there
would be considerable scope for managerial independence within a structure that
combines appropriate price controls with efficiency incentives. The preliminary
thinking is that prices charged by the transmission company (bulk tariff) would
be regulated on a cost basis. The prices charged by the distribution companies,
and by the generators in medium term contracts, would be regulated on the basis
of standardized costs. The prices in long-term generation contracts would result
from competitive bidding. The prices in short term and spot contracts would be
set by competition rather than regulation. Nevertheless, initial market rules
would provide that the regulatory agency would have the option of investigating
these prices under certain circumstances. Therefore, the cost-based regulated
market share would be declining.
33.   Electricity Market.       Under the emerging electricity market framework
designed by PPGC in cooperation with consultants, long term (up to 20 years)
power purchase agreements are now being signed between PPGC and the generators
for 80% of each generator's output.  About 15-20% of each generator's output
would be sold to PPGC under short-term (up to 1 year) power purchase agreements.
In the long run, about 5% could possibly be sold on a daily (spot market) basis,
if such a system is manageable. The short-term and daily contracts would have
higher profit margins than the long-term contracts, in order to compensate for
uncertainty. PPGC would sign contracts with all generators connected to the 220
and 400 kV network. Generators connected to the 110 kV network would have the
option to sign contracts either with PPGC or directly with the distribution
companies.
34.   These agreements would establish the provisions under which PPGC would
purchase the capacity and the energy generated at each plant, including price
levels and adjustment provisions, guaranteed quantities and conditions of
metering and supply. The model long-term power purchase agreement was developed
in cooperation with the Bank and USAID.   Such agreements are of paramount
importance to investors and lenders, since under limited recourse financing only
the revenues associated with the availability of capacity and the sale of power
are available to cover debt service payments and dividends. Payments are divided
between capacity and energy charges. Capacity charges cover all fixed costs,
including debt service and depreciation. In return, the generators guarantee the
plant's availability under safe running conditions, with bonus and penalty
provisions as appropriate. The energy charges cover the variable portion of the
costs associated with power generation and a profit margin.
35.   In the case of a CHP plant, a thermal purchase agreement would need to be
signed between the local heat distribution enterprise and the generator.   In
substance this agreement would be similar to the power sales agreement. Because
the main issue is the allocation of total cost between heat and power, the two
agreements would normally be negotiated virtually simultaneously.
36.   Separate grid charges would be established, on the basis of which supply
competition could develop over time. Access to transmission and distribution
networks would be open to competing power sources, including independent power
producers. Franchising, under which one company would operate the system but the
assets themselves would be owned by another company, would be another possible



- 10 -
way of enhancing efficiency within distribution.   This option is currently
favored over the concession option, under which one company owns and operates the
assets for an extended period of time.
D. Environmental Aspects
37.   Energy production and consumption represent the single most serious threat
to the environment in Poland. However, the substantial increases in domestic
energy prices since 1990 are beginning to provide incentives for energy
conservation and for fuel switching away from coal.    Since  1989,  energy
consumption fell by 21%; emissions decreased by more than 30%.   In heavily
industrialized areas emissions reductions are even more significant. This has
also affected the levels of ambient air pollution.   Apart from some highly
polluted areas, average levels of exposure in Poland to the major air pollutants
are no longer significantly higher than in industrialized countries in Western
Europe.
38.   Particulates (soot, dust) and not S02 and/or NO. are the most serious type
of pollution in Poland, both in terms of health impact as well as economic costs.
Therefore, the most significant improvements in environmental quality can be
achieved by control of emissions from "low stack" boilers. Removal of sulfur
dioxide by means of expensive flue gas desulfurization (FGD) in high stacks
should, at this time, be limited to new plants and/or at locations where the
greatest impact on ambient air quality and transboundary pollution can be
demonstrated,  and where FGD is the least-cost solution.   Although Poland's
contribution to transboundary pollution is considerable, the country is a net
importer of S02 and possibly N0O.
39.   The Government has expressed its intention to move  towards  adopting
European Union standards, and has introduced new emission standards that should
become effective starting January 1, 1998.  While the emission standards are
reasonable, with the exception of the timing of the introduction of the S02
standard, the proposed ambient standards are much stricter than comparable
standards in the European Union. Uncertainty about how the emission standards
will be interpreted and the future dispatching strategy (para. 57), combined with
a lack of investment funds, makes it difficult for generating enterprises to plan
any environmental investments that may be required. This virtually ensures that
the standards cannot be enforced by 1998. The Bank is engaged in a dialogue with
the Government on setting realistic and enforceable standards that are driven by
the need to achieve a healthy ambient air quality. In setting ambient standards,
cost-benefit analyses of the damage caused by different pollution levels and the
costs of reducing emissions would need to be carried out. Emission standards
should then be designed to ensure that the desired ambient standards are met.
The Government agreed that it will review its air pollution emission standards
for the power s6ctor by December 31, 1995 and promptly thereafter: (a) revise
these standards to ensure: (i) compliance with international treaties and
protocols; (ii) consistency with EU emission standards; and (iii) unambiguous
interpretation of such standards; and (b) ensure compliance by the power sector
with such standards on a least-cost basis. Such standards should be based on the
need to achieve a healthy ambient air quality and on the premise that power
plants should contribute their fair share in reaching that target.



- 11 -
40.   Economic instruments (as opposed to the regulatory approach) are becoming
increasingly important as a tool of pollution control policy. They also create
incentives for energy conservation and environmental improvement.  In Poland, a
number of these instruments, like emissions charges, are already in place. Other
instruments, such as the bubble concept and tradeable permits, are under
consideration. It would be desirable for these instruments to become part of
future air pollution regulations. The Bank has cooperated with the Government
in this respect through a study and subsequent seminar on alternative policy
instruments for the control of air pollution, funded by the UK Know How Fund.
E. Bank Sector Assistance Strategy
41.   The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy as discussed
by the Board of Directors during the presentation of the Katowice Heat Supply and
Conservation Project on November 17, 1994 and according to which the Bank would
aim at: (i) assisting the Government in addressing the most critical structural
issues (public finance reform, downsizing of large loss-making sectors and
financial  sector  reform);  (ii)  supporting  private  sector  development  and
catalyzing private sector financing or participation; and (iii) financing medium-
sized projects in social and economic infrastructure with increased emphasis on
projects at the local government level. The Bank's strategy in the energy sector
envisages projects that support priority rehabilitation and modernization
investments in the power, district heating and gas subsectors that enhance energy
conservation and efficiency and reduce environmental pollution.   In the coal
subsector the Bank aims to assist the Government's downsizing efforts by helping
to mitigate the social cost of restructuring.
42.   Under the Energy Resource Development project (Loan 3215-POL) the Bank
supports gas pricing reform; domestic production of gas; and increased private
sector participation in developing petroleum resources.   Under the SAL (Loan
3247-POL), coal prices were decontrolled and the first steps were taken towards
elimination of energy-related subsidies and cross-subsidization of household
energy consumers. Under the Heat Supply Restructuring and Conservation Project
(Loans 3377/83-POL), in particular the SECAL of that project (Loan 3377-POL), and
under the Katowice Heat Supply and Conservation Project (Loan 3809-POL), the Bank
broadened and deepened its support for further comprehensive energy sector
restructuring.   While good progress has been made on energy pricing,  the
Government and the Bank are engaged in a policy dialogue about the additional
measures needed to bring energy prices to their economic levels and to introduce
the new regulatory framework (paras. 14-15).
43.   Further industrial and household energy price adjustments will be necessary
for energy sector enterprises to be able to finance an adequate portion of
investments from net cash flow; accelerate energy conservation and efficiency
improvements (in industry but also in households); enable increased domestic gas
production and gas imports; encourage fuel switching and introduction of clean
coal technologies to reduce environmental pollution; and create one essential
precondition for attracting much needed private capital to the sector.   The
relatively greater adjustment effort will need to be focused on bringing
household prices further in line with economic levels. This is also particularly
important for the distribution companies.  However, the Bank recognizes that



- 12 -
special measures should be taken to protect the lowest income groups through
measures that do not encourage excessive use of energy.
44.   In preparing this project, the lessons learned in past power projects in
other Regions as recorded by the Operations Evaluations Department were applied.
Special emphasis was put on ensuring that all preparatory work necessary for
project implementation was done prior to loan effectiveness. Furthermore, the
project takes place within the framework of the continuing policy dialogue with
the Government regarding the energy sector restructuring program, particularly
as it relates to achieving further improvement in energy pricing policies,
introduction of a sound regulatory framework and integrated resource planning
(para. 66). This is consistent with the principal recommendations of the Bank's
1992 Energy Sector Policy Paper.
PART III - THE BORROWER
A. Organization
45.   The Polish Power Grid Company (PPGC) would be the Borrower of the Bank
loan. PPGC was created as a joint stock company on August 2, 1990, just prior
to the dissolution of the Power and Lignite Board monopoly on September 30, 1990.
All PPGC shares are held by the Treasury, represented by the Ministry of Industry
and Trade. PPGC has a Supervisory Council of 11 persons appointed for a period
of three years. The Council is chaired by the Vice Minister of Industry and
Trade. PPGC has a two-tier management structure, consisting of a four-member
Board of Directors (senior management) which is appointed for three year terms
by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and the Management, consisting of the
various department heads. The organization chart of PPGC is shown in Annex 3-1.
46.   PPGC has the following main responsibilities within the Polish power
sector: (a) manage power grid operation, taking into account considerations of
economy and safety; (b) set the rules for the domestic wholesale electricity
market; (c) export and import electricity; (d) ensure adequate fuel stock
management; and (e) develop the least-cost investment program for the Polish
power sector as a whole.   In addition, PPGC has assumed a major role in
developing detailed policy recommendations for sector restructuring and for the
functioning of a new domestic wholesale electricity market (para. 33).
47.   In August 1993 the high-voltage transmission assets (covering all lines and
substation equipment at the 750, 400 and 220 kV levels, plus interface equipment
at the 110 kV level) and four major pumped storage facilities were transferred
from the distribution companies to PPGC. These assets are indispensable for PPGC
to exercise its dispatching function and for coordinated investment planning.
Details on the assets transfer are provided in Annex 3-2.



- 13 -
B. Staff and Training
48.   As of the end of 1994, PPGC had a staff of 1,527 persons of which 484 were
employed at headquarters in Warsaw (including the National Dispatching Center)
and the remaining 1;043 in the five regional branches. Salaries and wages paid
by PPGC are competitive with the remainder of the industry. The structure of
compensation offers adequate incentives, the ratio between highest and lowest
wages being in the order of 12:1. There are two trade unions active within PPGC:
Solidarity (about 210 members) and the Dispatchers Union (about 250 members).
Relations between management and the trade unions are satisfactory.
49.   PPGC's staff is generally well qualified in technical matters.  Out of the
1,527 people employed, 744 have university degrees.   About 78Z of those are
engineers, while economists account for virtually all of the remaining staff with
advanced degrees. Shortcomings are now beginning to be felt keenly in the areas
of finance, investment management, and in legal matters.
50.   In the past, training was provided on a department by department basis,
with the department director identifying training needs of his staff.   However,
in 1993 a new personnel section was established with the specific task of setting
up a data base of the staff, including performance appraisals and employee self-
assessments. These data were used to determine the best fit of current personnel
to available positions, identify the need for new employees, and establish
training programs. The analysis indicated a need for additional staff training
and, as a result, PPGC tripled training expenditures.
51.   Three  departments  are  currently  involved  in financial  and  economic
management:  the Accounting,  the Economic and the Finance Departments.   The
Accounting Department is responsible for financial reporting, settling accounts
between PPGC and the generators and distributors, and cash transactions.  The
Economics Department is mainly responsible for designing and calculating retail
prices and internal transfer prices among the three subsectors in the power
industry, and for contracting between PPGC and other entities (generators,
distributors, coal mines, import/export). The Finance Department was established
in 1993 in recognition of the need for PPGC to meet the demands of a modern
commercial utility in a market economy. The main responsibilities of the Finance
Department are financial management and corporate financial planning, which had
been almost non-existent in PPGC until the Finance Department was created. As
it is gradually strengthened these functions would play an increasingly important
role in PPGC's financial management.
52.   However, further restructuring of the economics and finance complex should
take place. Considering the tasks that PPGC will need to carry out in overall
power sector restructuring and in implementing its own investments, it would be
desirable to establish a centralized financial management system under a Chief
Financial Officer reporting to the Executive Board of PPGC.  Under the Chief
Financial Officer the following principal functions should be performed:
management accounting, corporate planning, budgeting and budgetary control,
financial accounting, cost accounting, and internal control and auditing. Part
of the proceeds of the Bank loan would be used for staff training in these areas.
Agreement was reached that PPGC will present, by June 30, 1996 a comprehensive



- 14 -
proposal, satisfactory to the Bank, to introduce a sound corporate financial
management organization and implement this by December 31, 1996.
C. Project Preparation and Implementation
53.   Due to the scarcity of investment funds in recent years, combined with the
burden of having to take a lead role in the ongoing energy sector restructuring,
PPGC had neither the need nor the opportunity to organize an adequately staffed
project preparation and implementation unit. For the few ongoing projects tasks
were generally assigned on an ad-hoc basis, although more formal arrangements
were made in connection with the Warsaw-Bialystok transmission line. Investments
during 1991-93 averaged about US$43 million per year; these investments were
started by the former Power and Lignite Board and only needed completion.
54.   However, the proposed project poses requirements that are of a different
magnitude than what PPGC has experienced so far. A large number of sub-projects,
each with its own implementation schedule, must be managed carefully in order to
ensure that they are completed on time. Among the major tasks to be done are:
scheduling, budgeting, monitoring and reporting. Some of the specific tasks are:
feasibility studies preparation, obtaining right-of-way, legal/contractual
aspects, environmental reviews, procurement, bid evaluation and contract award,
and construction supervision. Hence, PPGC has created a project preparation and
implementation unit and has assigned the staff necessary to manage all the tasks
for each sub-project, including a project manager to ensure coordination. The
size of this staff will vary, depending on the extent to which PPGC wishes to
subcontract major parts of the work to engineering design offices and the
distribution  companies.    Bank  consultants  under  Canadian  grant  financing
cooperated with PPGC in project preparation and management.
55.   Since  1990,  only  minimal  investments  have  been  undertaken  by  the
distribution companies for maintenance and rehabilitation of the 400 and 220 kV
networks, partly because of lack of funds and partly because of the planned
transfer of these assets to PPGC. The future challenge will be to ensure that,
despite separate ownership of different network components, coordinated
investment planning will take place in order to achieve the required performance
objectives  of the power network.   In this regard,  the obsolescence  of a
significant portion of the 110 kV system, along with its poor operational
performance,  is  of  primary  concern.    Therefore,  a  general  program  for
rehabilitation of the interconnected 400/220/110 kV network should be prepared,
while recognizing the unique characteristics of the 110 kV grid in each district.
This would ensure proper sequencing of investments at 400 and 220 kV levels in
conjunction with those at the 110 kV level nationwide, as well as establishment
of investment priorities at the 110 kV level on a regional basis. Agreement was
reached that PPGC will: (i) prepare, by December 31, 1996, a comprehensive
program including detailed guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
rehabilitation of the 110 kV network in conjunction with the rehabilitation of
the 400 and 220 kV networks; and (ii) issue such guidelines by June 30, 1997.



- 15 -
D. Functions of PPGC
56.   Dispatching.    At  present  PPGC  uses  generation  loading  tables  to
economically dispatch generation.   These tables are revised periodically to
reflect changes in unit characteristics and variable costs. The latter, however,
only take the cost of fuel and transportation into account and exclude the
effects of transmission losses and environmental charges. The unit data used to
develop the loading tables are based on the incremental cost curve for each unit,
i.e., the increase in costs incurred at each loading level when the unit output
is increased by a small increment. Those units with the lowest incremental costs
are loaded first when additional generation is required. Within the constraints
of its narrow definition of costs, PPGC is currently operating -manually- a merit
order dispatching system.
57.   Transmission losses and emissions could be taken into account by adjusting
the unit incremental cost curve. For losses, the adjustment factors would depend
on the current operating state of the power system and the extent to which
additional costs are incurred in transmitting power from a given plant to the
load centers. Similarly, adjustment factors for emissions would depend on the
operating state of the unit and its emissions characteristics. These factors are
important for a more comprehensive merit order dispatching system and for
encouraging generating plant owners to make the necessary investments in
environmental retrofitting. Other issues that must still be resolved in this
connection are: incentives to be given to generators that meet or exceed the new
environmental standards prior to 1998 to offset the additional cost of the
pollution control equipment, compensating between generators that receive such
equipment as a grant and those that have to borrow, etc. Agreement was reached
that  PPGC  would  prepare,  by  December  31,  1995  a  program  to  introduce
environmentally constrained economic dispatching and implement this by June 30,
1996.
58.   Tariff Setting.  Pending the introduction of a new regulatory framework
(para. 15), PPGC is still extensively involved in tariff setting. Retail tariffs
are set by the Ministry of Finance, having received the advice of the Ministry
of Industry and Trade (which, to a large extent, relies on the advice of PPGC).
Internal transfer pricing rules are set by the Ministry of Industry and Trade,
on the advice of PPGC.   Details on the current retail and internal transfer
pricing tariff structures are in Annex 3-3.  An electricity tariff study was
commissioned by PPGC in 1992 under USAID grant financing, under terms of
reference and by consultants satisfactory to the Bank. The study was completed
towards the end of 1993 and is instrumental in the ongoing restructuring of
electricity tariffs.
59.   Fuels Management.  Under its statute, PPGC is obliged to assist generators,
if necessary,  in keeping adequate supplies of fuel in stock.   Its National
Dispatching Center sets the standards in this regard. At present, the sector
operates without an operating permit system for generators; such a system is
expected to be introduced under the new Energy Law. Permits to operate would
stipulate the fuel reserve levels to be maintained by each generator.
Alternatively, the required fuel reserve level for a generator could be specified
in the long-term sales contract between the generator and PPGC.



- 16 -
60.   The current standards are that minimum reserve levels must range from 10
days of operation for plants near the mines, to 45 days for the plants that are
farthest away. In the latter case, higher reserve levels are necessary due to
potential transportation problems during winter. The National Dispatching Center
monitors fuel reserve levels for all system generators and large CHP plants on
a daily basis. The financial costs implied by these fuel requirements are among
the cost elements reflected in the variable charge paid by PPGC to each
generator.
61.   ExRort and Import of Electricity.   Although exports  and imports  of
electricity constitute a minor share of total Polish power consumption, this
function is important from the points of view of security of supply, reduction
of generating and investment costs, and expo-rt revenues.  Imports and exports
peaked at about 8.5% of total domestic consumption in 1988 and 1990,
respectively. Important changes have taken place in recent years: (a) imports
as a percentage of total domestic consumption have steadily declined from 8.4%
in 1988 to 4.3% in 1993; (b) exports as a percentage of total domestic
consumption increased from 5.4% in 1988 to 8.5% in 1990 and then decreased to
6.1% in 1993; and (c) net electricity trade has shifted from a deficit to a
surplus since 1990, increased annually since then to 3.1% of domestic consumption
1992 and decreased to 1.8% in 1993. These changes are illustrated in Table 3.1.
62.   Most electricity imports go currently to border regions which are not yet
fully connected to the Polish main transmission network. Imports from the FSU
peaked in 1989 at 7.7 TWh and declined rapidly thereafter to 1.0 TWh in 1990.
Most imports are currently from Germany. Except for a long-term export contract
with Austria, which accounted for about 60% of annual exports in recent years,
most exports are to meet short term contracts, and the export quantities vary
according to the supply/demand situations of both domestic and international
electricity markets.
63.   Given the rapidly changing demand and supply situation, it is in Poland's
interest to reinforce its domestic network, in part to be able to connect to the
UCPTE network. This could supply Poland with cheaper peaking power and enhance
security of supply while, at the same time, enabling it to trade electricity with
Western Europe. In addition to joining the UCPTE pool, Poland can still maintain
its east-west wheeling power function through asynchronous ties with the FSU's
power systems.
64.   Poland, the Czech and Slovak Republics, and Hungary have long operated an
interconnected power system (Centrel), with a central dispatching office located
in Prague. A working group has been set up between these countries in order to:
(a) coordinate joint operation of their power systems; (b) achieve joint
connection  to  UCPTE;  and  (c)  achieve  a  synchronous  UCPTE-Centrel-Turkey
connection once UCPTE standards have been reached.  In October 1993, the four
countries successfully completed a test of the interconnection and synchronous
operation of their networks without ties to the FSU and German networks. The
test was in full compliance with UCPTE operating criteria.



- 17 -
Table 3.1: Poland - Electricity Trade (in GWh), 1988-1993
_  1988    1989   1990    1991    1992   1993
Total Domestic Consumption  148,846  147,258  135,398  132,077  128,671   131,252
Imports                   12,456   12,059   10,437    6,708   5,034    5,600
Exports                    7,980   10,268   11,477    9,326   9,066    8,011
Imports/Total              8.4%    8.2%    7.7%    5.1%    3.9%       4.3%
Exports/Total              5.4%    7.0%     8.5%     7.1%    7.1%     6.1%
Net Trade                 (4,476)  (1,791)    1,040    2,618   4,032    2,411
65.   Least-Cost Investment Planning.   One of PPGC's major functions is to
undertake least-cost generation and transmission investment planning for the
entire power sector (para. 68). The current period of relatively low electricity
demand provides an ideal opportunity for implementing an aggressive generating
plant retirement,  rehabilitation and modernization program.   Because of the
expected low demand growth, any new plant construction would be a function of the
retirement program. Retirements are in turn determined by the age and technical
condition of the existing units, rehabilitation and environmental requirements,
and availability of a competitive primary fuel mix. Details on the least-cost
power generation investment program are provided in Annex 3-4.
E. Integrated Resource Planning
66.   During project preparation the Bank and PPGC, under USAID, Austrian and
French grant financing, initiated a program aimed at encouraging an economically
more efficient allocation of power sector resources.   This program covered
supply-side resource planning at generation, transmission and distribution levels
and demand-side resource planning (measures for modifying the timing and level
of consumer demand).   The activities undertaken include:  (a)  load demand
forecasting; (b) assessment of demand-side management potential at the national
level and for a pilot area covered by the Gliwice and Torun electricity
distribution  companies;  (c)  least-cost  power  generation  and  transmission
investment planning (para. 68); (d) optimization of cogeneration development; (e)
economic dispatching under environmental constraints; (f) electricity transfer
pricing and retail tariffs; and (g) power system analysis.  These activities were
carried out by PPGC in cooperation with Polish institutes and local and foreign
consultants.
67.   All the above  studies have been completed.   As a result,  PPGC has
established a basic in-house integrated resource planning capacity to carry out
these activities on a regular basis and to enable it to effectively supervise
consultants in this field.   Funds have been allocated under the technical
assistance component of the proposed loan to help PPGC achieve this objective.
Funding for implementation of the demand-side management study's recommendations,
which is the responsibility of the distribution companies is envisaged, inter
alia, under the Bank's proposed Electricity Distribution Project (FY96).



- 18 -
68.   The Bank arranged Austrian and French grant financing for consultants to
work with PPGC in preparing a least-cost generation and transmission investment
program  to  identify investment priorities  in the sector.    Of particular
importance was the need for dual optimization of power and heat systems. A CHP
development study was also undertaken.   The major focus of the study was to
identify units for retirement, rehabilitation and environmental retrofitting, and
to determine the economic dispatching strategy with environmental constraints,
needs for new generating capacity, optimum future capacity structure given the
fuel supply mix, and optimum development of the transmission grid. The study was
completed in November 1994.    A master plan study for telecommunications and
telecontrol of the Polish power system, including Supervisory Control And Data
Acquisition and Energy Management Systems, was also prepared.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Scope
69.   Objectives.   The project's objectives are to: (a) improve the reliability
of the existing high voltage grid through rehabilitation and reinforcement; (b)
enhance security of power supply in Poland by interconnecting the Polish power
grid with that of Western Europe, thus improving Poland's power trade and
wheeling capability; (c) improve the network's operational performance and
control through transmission loss reduction and improved dispatching, thereby
enhancing energy conservation and efficiency; (d) reduce environmental pollution;
and (e) enhance PPGC's institutional capabilities.   The project takes place
within the framework of the continuing policy dialogue with the Government
regarding the energy sector restructuring program, particularly as it relates to
achieving further improvement in energy pricing policies and introduction of a
sound regulatory framework.
70.   Project Scope.   The project, supported by a US$160 million Bank loan,
comprises the following major components:
a.    the  substation  modernization  program,  consisting  of:  (i)  the
modernization of strategic substations in the Western and Central-
Western regions of Poland (including a complete upgrading and
modernization of the major substation Mikulowa) to meet the design
performance levels required for system reliability and international
interconnections; and (ii) shunt reactive compensation at specific
substations, to ensure steady voltage control and avoid having to
switch off 400 kV lines under light load conditions;
b.    the 220 kV line modernization program, consisting of urgently needed
rehabilitation and upgrading of 220 kV lines to achieve satisfactory
overall system performance levels and interconnect major substations
for dispatching purposes; and



- 19 -
c.    technical assistance in selected areas of project and financial
management, integrated resource planning and training, as required.
71.   The project is part of a larger investment program to reinforce Poland's
high voltage grid. The Bank loan would finance only the direct foreign exchange
costs of those high priority components for which procurement and implementation
can start immediately.   Not included under Bank financing are, for example,
construction of a major substation and two major new transmission lines for the
Ostrow system, due to the fact that their right-of-way acquisition and
environmental assessments are not sufficiently advanced.  A detailed project
description is provided in Annex 4-1.  The program, the project and the Bank-
financed components are presented in Annex 4-2.
72.   Satisfactory performance of the Polish power system can only be achieved
by ensuring a self-sufficient and reliable system. With respect to the power
transmission network, this involves a comprehensive medium-term program
consisting of urgently needed rehabilitation and reinforcement of existing
facilities (lines and substations), combined with a long-term functional
reconfiguration of the high voltage 400, 220 and 110 kV networks in order to
gradually allow the 110 kV network to become a distribution network only.
73.   A Poland-UCPTE  interconnection study was completed in 1993,  jointly
undertaken by PPGC and utilities from France, Germany and Sweden.  The study
formulated a comprehensive investment program that PPGC needs to undertake prior
to joining the UCPTE.  This would require significant grid outages to permit
implementation of this program in various locations of the network.   These
outages must be planned on a coordinated basis so as not to jeopardize the
electricity supply and demand balance, and in order to ensure that maximum
security is maintained at all times. Close involvement of dispatching staff and
of the generation and distribution companies concerned would be essential, both
during and after the preparation of a detailed project implementation schedule.
B. Project Cost and Financing Plan
74.   The total project cost, including interest during construction (para. 86),
taxes and duties, is estimated at about US$276 million equivalent. Of the total
cost, US$168 million would be in foreign exchange, and US$108 million equivalent
would be in local costs. All cost estimates are based on international prices
as of March 1994. A physical contingency of 10% of the base cost has been added,
plus a specific contingency to allow for the possibility of using Gas Insulated
Switchgear at the Mikulowa substation. Foreign and local price contingencies are
assumed to average 2.5% per annum. A summary of the project cost is presented
in Table 4.1.  Project cost details are in Annex 4-2.



- 20 -
Table 4.1 Prlect Cost
PROJECT COMPONENSLcl                            Foeg        oa
A. System Rehabilitation and Modernization             65.1     102.5     167.6
- Substations                                      51.9      74.2     126.1
- Lines                                            13.2      28.3      41.5
B. Technical Assistance                                 0.8       2.5       3.3
' - S  T  PROJECT RASE''CTSU     :    i i- -i59       15        170.9
C. Contingencies:                                      12.7      31.0      43.7
- Price Contingencies                              6.5       20.4      26.9
- Physical Contingencies                           6.2       10.6      16.8
D. Import Duties and Taxes                             29.3                29.3
E. Interest During Construction                                  31.8      31.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS179                                161.8     215.1
75.   The project's financing plan is summarized in Table 4.2 below.
Table 4.2 Proiect Flnancing Plan
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
0  00    ;Local : Forei  Total
IBRD                                                            160.0     160.0
PPGC                                                 107.9        7.8     115.7
TOTAL                             179       167.8     275.7
C. Environmental Assessment
76.   The project is rated category B, in accordance the Bank's Operational
Manual Statement 4.01 of October 1992.   This category is reserved for projects
which may have relatively minor adverse environmental impacts, despite the fact
that the project would result in a net reduction in air pollution. The chief
requirement under a "B" rating is for PPGC to prepare an environmental monitoring
and mitigation plan. PPGC has done this. Audible noise within the substations
would be taken care of through noise suppression techniques as part of the
project design, based on background noise surveys already made. This meets the
requirements of an environmental mitigation plan. Monitoring of the lines for
audible noise and electric field intensity would be undertaken by PPGC as part



- 21 -
of its routine procedures. The power transformers could be a source of possible
oil leakage or fires.   Under the project provision has been made for oil
containment at the transformers for all substations, together with fire
prevention water deluge systems.
77.   PPGC is taking a pro-active environmental stance and is undertaking a study
-under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank- of possible usage of poly-
chlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in the 110 kV network. Although it is not known
whether PCBs were, in fact, used as a coolant in the Polish power system, it was
common in many power systems throughout the world until about ten years ago.
However, because of PCBs' high toxicity, utilities in some countries have started
to gradually replace PCBs by mineral oil. PPGC has already presented a study,
satisfactory to the Bank, that concluded that no PCBs are present in the 400 and
220 kV systems. Agreement was reached that PPGC would prepare, by December 31,
1995, a study on the use of PCBs for the 110 kV distribution network in Poland.
None of the equipment to be installed under the project would utilize PCBs.
78.   PPGC contacted the Polish Society for the Protection of Birds and the
Gdansk Ornithological Society, to solicit their opinion about the environmental
impact of the proposed transmission line routings that are part of its investment
program. These entities have reported favorably on the proposed transmission
line routings. Ihe lines would also be running mostly at a considerable distance
from population centers and resettlement for this component, as well as for
substation rehabilitation, would not be required.   In addition, the design of
the transmission lines and the width of the right-of-way are well within EU
standards for noise and electric field intensity.
79.   Through the project's network reinforcement and rehabilitation components,
transmission losses would be reduced and electricity dispatching improved. This
would result in a corresponding reduction in energy production by the generating
plants and would provide further incentives for the retirement of some of the
oldest and most polluting generating units. The project fits, therefore, well
in Poland's climate strategy under the Framework Convention on Climate Change,
which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as with its obligations
under the Second Sulfur Protocol. Reinforcement of the grid in the Ostrow area
would also permit the rehabilitation and full environmental retrofit of the
strategically important 2000 MWe lignite-fired Turow power plant in the south-
western part of the country.
D. Procurement Arrangements
80.   Procurement would be carried out by PPGC's procurement unit.  The unit has
qualified staff and has the necessary office equipment. The unit has received
training in international procurement by specialized Bank staff.
81.   The Bank's standard bidding documents would be used for Bank-financed
components.   To the extent practicable, invitations for bids would be grouped
into sizeable bid packages so as to enhance competition and benefit from
economies of scale in bid prices. All procurement packages valued at US$300,000
and above would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.   In the
evaluation and comparison of bids for equipment to be procured through ICB,



- 22 -
Polish manufacturers would receive a domestic preference in bid evaluation of 15%
of the c.i.f. price or the prevailing customs duty applicable  to non-exempt
importers, whichever is less, provided they can prove that the value added to the
product in Poland exceeds 20% of the ex-factory bid price.  Equipment procured
through ICB would account for about 93% percent of equipment requirements
financed by the Bank, and for 49% of total equipment requirements. It consists
of 26 packages at an aggregate cost of about US$119 million.   A procurement
schedule for major equipment items is presented in  Annex 4-3. The procurement
arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: Procurement Arrangements
(Figures in US$ million)
PROClREMENT METODS a/
C(MIPENEM                     ICR       LIB     OTHER !/   IDC    TOTAL
A.   SUBSTATION EQUIPMENT                   164.1                16.3             180.4
(91.5)              (0.3)             (91.8)
B.   LINE EQUIPMENT                         49.1      9.1        1.1              59.3
(27.4)    (5.1)     (0.6)             (33.1)
C.   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE c/                                     4.2               4.2
(3.3)            (3.3)
D.  INTEREST DURING CONSMRUCTION                                          31.8    31.8
_________________________________ ___________________   _____________ (31.8)  (31.8)
TOTAL                      213.2      9.1       21.6     31.8   275.7
(118.9)   (5.1)      (4.2)    (31.8)  (160.0)
I/ Figures between brackets indicate Bank financed portion.
j2/ Includes International Shopping and Direct Contracting.
/ includes consuttants'services, training and supporting computer software/hardware.
82.   The exceptions to ICB procurement would be as follows:
(a)   Limited International Bidding (LIB).  This procedure would be used
for equipment which is required for the replacement of existing
units and which can only be supplied by a limited number of
suppliers. It is estimated that this equipment would be procured in
2 LIB packages, not exceeding an aggregate amount of US$5.7 million.
(b)   International Shopping (IS). This procedure would be used for small
amounts  of  equipment.    Contracts  for  equipment  and  materials
estimated to cost less than US$300,000 per package, not exceeding an
aggregate amount of US$1. 2 million equivalent would be awarded under
this procedure, based on comparing price quotations obtained from at
least three eligible suppliers from at least three different
countries.



- 23 -
(c)   Direct Contracting.   This procedure would be used for items of a
proprietary nature, or where compatibility with installed equipment
is required. This would be the case for the procurement of computer
software and hardware for power system analysis. Direct contracting
would be used for equipment and materials estimated to cost an
aggregate amount not exceeding US$0.5 million equivalent and would
be financed under the technical assistance component of the project.
(d)   Consulting Services and Training.   Qualified short-listed firms
would be invited to submit proposals for consulting services and
training in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants. Contracts for consulting services would be procured
from consulting firms (estimated at US$2.5 million). As needed, the
services of individual specialists would also be contracted
(US$300,000).   In addition, an amount of US$0.5 million has been
allocated  within  the  loan  amount  for  training  purposes.    A
procurement schedule for consulting services and training, including
procurement arrangements, is presented in Annex 4-3.
83.   Retroactive Financing.  In agreement with the Bank, the Borrower is in the
process of procuring equipment to start implementing the project.   These
procurement actions would be completed in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines. Payments made under such contracts after December 1, 1994 would be
eligible for reimbursement under retroactive financing arrangements up to 10% of
the loan amount (US$16.0 million).
84.   Procurement Review.   The Bank would conduct a prior review of all ICB
packages and all procurement packages over US$300,000 each. In addition, prior
approval would be sought for the use of the LIB, international shopping and
direct contracting.   Other contracts would be subject to the Bank's ex-post
reviews. In the case of consulting services and training, all terms of reference
and selection procedures would be subject to the Bank's prior review and
approval, regardless of value. In addition, prior review would be undertaken for
all consulting contracts above US$100,000 (firms) and US$50,000 (individuals).
The Bank's standard bidding documents would be used for ICB and LIB packages and
for the recruitment of consultants.
E. Disbursements
85.   The loan disbursement schedule is based on the Bank's disbursement profile
for energy projects in the Europe and Central Asia Region (Annex 4-4). The
disbursements schedule is summarized in Table 4.4.



- 24 -
Table 4.4 Estimated Disbursements
US$ Million
ILBRD) FY
FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99    FYZOOO   FY-2001
Annual                          9.6     19.2    38.4    32.0      51.2       9.6
Cumulative                      9.6     28.8    67.2    99.2    150.4    160.0
Percentage                      6%      18%      42%     62%       94%     100%
86.   The loan would finance up to 100% of the eligible direct foreign exchange
expenditures for goods and services, as well as up to 100% of the eligible ex-
factory costs of locally produced goods. Interest during construction on the
Bank loan would also be financed from the loan, given the length of the project's
construction period and the fact the Bank loan would constitute only a modest
portion of PPGC's overall investment program financing requirements.
Disbursements for contracts valued at less than US$300,000 equivalent would be
on  the  basis  of  statements  of  expenditures  which  detail  the  individual
transactions.  The documentation to support these expenditures would be retained
by the Borrower. The documentation would be audited by independent auditors and
be made available for review by the Bank upon request.   Applications  for
withdrawals against contracts valued at more than US$300,000 equivalent would be
fully documented. To facilitate disbursements, the Borrower would establish a
Deutsche Mark (DM) denominated Special Account with a qualified commercial bank.
The initial authorized allocation of the Special Account would be DM3.0 million
and increase to DM6.0 million when aggregate withdrawals and commitments attain
US$20.0 million equivalent. Retroactive financing would be provided for up to
US$16.0 million equivalent (para. 83).
F. Implementation
87.   The project would be implemented during FY1996-2001.           The project's
completion date is expected to be June 30, 2001 and the closing date December 31,
2001. The project implementation plan is shown in Annex 4-5.
88.   The Project Account, the Special Account, the Statement of Expenditures,
and the financial statements of the Borrower would be audited at the end of each
fiscal year in accordance with international standards. Agreement was reached
with PPGC that it will appoint independent external auditors acceptable to the
Bank and present, within six months after the end of each fiscal year, audited
financial statements showing its performance and position.
89.   Systems and procedures would be set up to ensure effective monitoring of
project implementation by the Borrower and the Bank.  In particular, the Borrower
would furnish the Bank with a series of progress reports on a regular basis.
Close  attention  would  be  paid  to  the  procurement  process  and  project
implementation. The Borrower would report on selected key variables and other
statistical information that would be monitored, in order to ensure that



- 25 -
efficiency gains are achieved.  Agreement was reached with PPGC that it will
submit these progress reports to the Bank by May 15 and November 15 of each year.
Agreement was also reached that PPGC will prepare and submit to the Bank, within
six months after the closing date of the loan, a project completion report.
90.   In  addition  to  regular  supervision  of  procurement  action,  project
implementation, quarterly progress reports, etc., regular supervision missions
would take place. A supervision effort averaging about 20 staffweeks per fiscal
year is expected to be required from the Bank. The supervision action plan is
shown in Annex 4-6.
91.   The project's success would be measured by such criteria as reductions in:
(i) transmission losses; (ii) widespread system disturbances; (iii) total energy
production costs; and (iv) unserved energy.
PART V -FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Past Performance and Present Position
92.   The Polish accounting system has been substantially modified since 1992 to
conform with European Union standards. The new system, once fully implemented,
would enhance the transparency of financial transactions and make financial
accounts a far better management tool than has been the case so far.
93.   An analysis of the past financial performance of PPGC (summarized in
Table 5.1) is of limited value as a guide to its future performance due to the
fact that PPGC has been operating with a significantly larger asset base since
August 1993 (para. 47). PPGC has so far used mainly short-term borrowings, since
long-term borrowings were generally unavailable during recent years, or too
expensive. Long-term debt appeared on the books in 1993, when PPGC inherited a
small amount of debt from the distribution companies when the high voltage assets
were transferred.   In 1994 PPGC obtained an EBRD loan against the sale of
electricity export receivables.
Table 5.1 Past Financial Performance Indicators
INDICATORS              1992    1993    1994
Operating Ratio                21%     37%      65%
Net Internal Cash Generation  226%     35%    115%
Current Ratio                   1.4     1.1      1.0
Debt/Debt & Equity           0/100   0/100     5/95
Debt Service Coverage (times)  15.5     2.2     2.2



- 26 -
94.   Net internal cash generation covered a large part of total applications.
Initial investments were limited to construction of the Warsaw-Bialystok and the
Gdansk-Olsztyn transmission lines plus a small substation; these investments were
carry-overs from the period before PPGC was created (para. 53).  Starting in
1994, however, PPGC began to make significant investments in telecommunications
facilities to improve electricity dispatching. The operating and current ratios
were satisfactory.
95.   The average collection period   for accounts receivable increased from
10 days of total revenues at the end of 1992 to 36 days at the end of 1994. This
reflects the overall economic situation and the build-up of mutual arrears among
enterprises. About 80% of the accounts with billing cycles shorter than a month
(mainly industrial users) were behind in their payments, as well as 78% of the
accounts with multi-month billing cycles (mainly residential users). Though most
of these bills are paid eventually, a portion of them (equal to about 1.5-2% of
annual revenues) will never be paid.   The majority of these defaults are by
industrial firms. The increasing level of accounts receivable forced PPGC to
delay payment of accounts payable from 5 days at the end of 1991 to 29 days at
the end of 1993. The entity also had to borrow short-term to finance working
capital needs.
96.   As for the rest of the energy sector, fixed assets in the power sector were
until recently significantly undervalued.   Studies indicated that, based on
replacement value methodology, the high voltage and pumped storage assets should
be revalued by factors of at least six times.   Control of asset revaluation
indices was one of the tools used by Government to ensure that prices do not
increase too quickly. However, in the context of its review of energy pricing
policy (para. 14) the Government decided to allow energy enterprises to revalue
all assets to replacement value and to gradually reflect this in increased
depreciation charges, starting in 1995. This would lower reported profits and
corporate income taxes, thereby significantly benefitting enterprise cash flow.



- 27 -
B. Financing Plan
97.   The financing plan during 1995-2001 is summarized in Table 5.2.
Table 5.2 Financing Plan. 1995 - 2001
Amount      %                          Amount       %    l
(million US$)                          (million US$)
Source of Funds                          Uses of Funds
Operating Income           116    12     The Project              276      29
Depreciation               529    56      Other Investments       581      62
Less: Debt Service        (261)   (28)
& Tax
Internal Sources       385    41        Total Investments      857      91
IBRD Loan                  160    17
Other Loans               395    42       Changes in Working
Capital & Cash           83       9
Total Loans             555    59
Total Sources           940    100      Total Uses             940     100
98.   PPGC would finance 41% of total applications from net internal cash flow
during the project implementation period.  This is based on the conservative
assumption that electricity prices will neither increase nor decrease in real
terms during the period. Furthermore, due to the major change in depreciation
policy allowed by the Government (para.96) and consequent increases in
depreciation charges, net operating income would go down while cash flow would
remain adequate.   It is assumed that revenues would continue to be divided
through the internal transfer pricing system as follows: 68.0% to generation,
6.8% to transmission and 25.2% to distribution. These percentages may change as
PPGC gains more experience with the actual operating costs and investment
requirements of the high voltage system.
99.   The above scenario would enable PPGC to implement the project and its core
network reinforcement program of about US$722 million equivalent, plus certain
other investments related to further network reinforcement. It is tentatively
assumed that the Bank would favorably consider extending a loan or guarantee for
a second transmission project to help implement PPGC's investment program -
including notably the large Ostrow component- once implementation of the current
project is sufficiently advanced.
100.  PPGC's total operating expenses, excluding power purchases and depreciation
expenses, are estimated to increase at an annual rate of about 8% through 2001.



- 28 -
In part this is due to the uncertainties connected with estimating the true
operating costs of the newly transferred high voltage assets.   The cost of
insurance is estimated to increase sharply as a result of asset revaluation. The
average collection period for accounts receivable is assumed to gradually decline
from 36 days in 1994 to about 20 days in 2000 and thereafter.
C. Future Financial Performance
101. Actual and forecast financial statements for 1993-2001 are shown in
Annex 5-1. The forecasts are expressed in US dollars, to eliminate the problems
associated with forecasting in an inflationary environment, combined with
changing price relationships. The main forecast financial performance indicators
are summarized in Table 5.3.
Table 5.3 Forecast Financial Perfornance Indicators
INDICATORS           1 995    996    1997   1998   1999    2)00 t2001
Operating Ratio            93%     95%     94%    92%    90%      89%    89%
Net Internal Cash Generation    98%    42%    51%    37%    36%   52%    58%
Current Ratio               1.1     1.1    1.1    1.2    1.2       1.2    1.2
Debt/Debt+ Equity Ratio     5%      3%      7%    11%    16%      19%    20%
Debt Service Coverage (times)    3.0    3.2  2.8    2.3    2.5     2.2    2.1
102.  PPGC' s financial performance would be satisfactory. Operating ratios would
be high due to the new depreciation policy combined with the assumption that
tariffs will not increase in real terms during the implementation period.
Nevertheless, as a result of the new depreciation policy internal cash generation
ratios would remain solid at an average of 41%, providing room for additional
investments. The debt/equity ratio would remain below 20% and the debt coverage
ratio well above 2.0 times, reflecting PPGC's underleveraged position and
capacity for future borrowings to finance additional investments.
103.  The financial performance targets are set at reasonable levels and should
be achievable under most scenarios.   Agreement was reached that PPGC will,
starting with the year 1995: (a) generate funds from internal sources sufficient
to obtain a 30% net internal cash generation ratio based on a three-year moving
average (the previous, current and next year); (b) maintain a debt service
coverage ratio of at least 1.5 times the annual debt service; and (c) present to
the Bank, by September 30 of each year, the estimated financial statements for
the current year and the forecasts for the next year.



- 29 -
PART VI - BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT
A. Project Benefits
104. The focus of the economic analysis is on the entire investment program of
PPGC.   This is mainly because the benefits associated with the investment
components under the project cannot be quantitatively measured in isolation from
other components of the program, unless arbitrary assumptions on allocating the
benefits to each component are made. The internal economic rate of return (ERR)
is, therefore, calculated on the basis of the incremental benefit and cost
streams connected with the 1995-2001 investment program, of which the Bank
project is an integral part. It covers the program's highest priority components
and is crucial for undertaking the remainder of the program. Details on the ERR
calculation are provided in Annex 6-1.
105.  Benefits.    The economic benefits associated with the entire investment
program  can  be  summarized  as  follows:  (a)  enhanced  reliability  of  the
transmission system; (b) reduced transmission losses and operation and
maintenance costs; (c) increased income from power wheeling and exports; and (d)
reduced environmental pollution.  For the purpose of the ERR calculation,  PPGC's
incremental transmission revenue is used as a proxy for the economic benefits of
its investment program and operations.
106.  Incremental transmission revenues were based on the difference between
revenues with and without the program and were valued using transmission revenue
and net export revenue. With the program, PPGC would be able to have firm power
contracts for domestic sales and exports to Austria and the Czech Republic and
maintain power exports to Germany.  Without the program, a portion of PPGC's
domestic and export contracts would be on an interruptible basis and at 50% of
the price of firm contracts; exports to Germany would cease, resulting in lost
revenues  for  the  company.    Other  quantifiable benefits made possible by
implementing the program comprise: (i) a reduction in ordered capacity by about
2% of annual peak demand per year (or 540 MW./year) valued at the marginal cost
of generation capacity of US$53/kW/year; (ii) a reduction in incremental
operating and maintenance (O&M) costs estimated at 2% of the value of the
existing assets annually; and (iii) savings equivalent to about US$14 million per
year due to transmission system reinforcement resulting in reduced unsupplied
demand (during the winter period mainly), a better use of merit-order dispatching
resulting in lower generation costs, and reduced transmission losses.
107.  Costs.   The costs associated with PPGC's investment program and used for
the ERR calculation comprise: (i) the total costs of the investment program over
the period 1995-2001, excluding price contingencies, custom duties and taxes, and
interest during construction; and (ii) the corresponding annual incremental O&M
costs, estimated at 2% of the cumulative capital investment costs. Other costs
such as incremental overhead costs for implementing the program were assumed to
be offset by the reduction in manpower requirements at the substation level
resulting from the improved telecommunication and telecontrol of substations.
Estimates of the local and foreign costs are in March 1994 prices. Local costs
are either directly costed in international prices or are converted to US dollars
using the average 1994 exchange rate.



- 30 -
108.  Internal Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis.   The internal
economic rate of return, based on the benefit and cost streams discussed above,
is estimated at 21%, which is above the 12% discount rate generally applied to
Poland. A sensitivity analysis was carried out to test the robustness of the
ERR. The ERR would go down to 12% if investment costs were to increase by 50%,
or if all quantifiable benefits were to decrease by 40%. A combination of 20%
higher investments costs and 25% lower benefits would decrease the ERR to 12%.
The ERR is also affected, to a lesser degree, by changes in the price for
interruptible contracts: if this price increases from 50% to 90% of the price for
firm contracts, the ERR would go down to 12%.
B. Major Risks
109. The main risk associated with the project is the possibility of delayed
increases in electricity prices. Such a delay could negatively affect PPGC's
internal cash flow, needed for further system improvements. However, this risk
is manageable, given the Government's commitment to energy price reform as
demonstrated by energy pricing adjustments undertaken since 1990 and its efforts
to introduce an energy regulatory framework, combined with recent favorable
changes in asset revaluation and depreciation policy. Furthermore, the project's
cash flow is based on the conservative assumption of zero price increases in real
terms over the medium term. Price decreases in real terms are highly unlikely
over the medium term and would, in first instance, only lead to a slowing down
of the pace  of investments  and their  associated benefits.   The  risk of
procurement and implementation delays are manageable because: (a) PPGC has set
up a procurement unit that has received training from specialized Bank staff; (b)
adequate staff has been allocated to the different project management activities.
This staff could, if necessary, be assisted by consultants who would provide both
functional support as well as training under the project's technical assistance
component; and (c) tight reporting schedules on procurement and implementation
progress during supervision.
PART VIl - AGREEMENTS AND CONDITIONS
110. During negotiations, PPGC agreed to:
a.    present, by June 30, 1996 a comprehensive proposal, satisfactory to
the Bank, to introduce a sound corporate financial management
organization and implement this by December 31, 1996 (para. 52 and
Loan Agreement (LA) 4.02);
b.    (i) prepare, by December 31, 1996, a comprehensive program including
detailed   guidelines,   satisfactory   to   the   Bank,   for   the
rehabilitation of the 110 kV network in conjunction with the
rehabilitation of the 400 and 220 kV networks; and (ii) issue such
guidelines by June 30, 1997 (para. 55 and LA 3.04(a));
c.    prepare, by December 31, 1995 a program to introduce environmentally
constrained economic dispatching and implement this by June 30, 1996
(para. 57 and LA 3.04(b));



- 31 -
d.    prepare, by December 31, 1995, a study, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, on the use of PCBs for the 110 kV
distribution network in Poland (para. 77 and LA 3.04(c));
e.    appoint independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank and
present, within six months after the end of each fiscal year,
audited financial statements showing its performance and position
(para. 88 and LA 5.01(b));
f.    (i) submit to the Bank, by May 15 and November 15 of each year,
progress reports; and (ii) prepare and submit to the Bank, within
six months after the closing date of the loan, a project completion
report (para. 89 and Minutes of Negotiations); and
g.    (i) generate funds from internal sources sufficient to obtain a 30%
net internal cash generation ratio based on a three-year moving
average (the previous, current and next year); (ii) maintain a debt
service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 times the annual debt
service; and (iii) present to the Bank, by September 30 of each
year, the estimated financial statements for the current year and
the forecasts for the next year (para. 103 and LA 5.02(a), 5.02(b)
and 5.03(a)).
111.  The Government agreed that it will review its air pollution emission
standards for the power sector by December 31, 1995 and promptly thereafter: (a)
revise these standards to ensure: (i) compliance with international treaties and
protocols; (ii) consistency with EU emission standards; and (iii) unambiguous
interpretation of such standards; and (b) ensure compliance by the power sector
with such standards on a least-cost basis (para. 39 and Guarantee Agreement
3.01).
112. On the basis of the above mentioned agreements, the project is considered
suitable for an IBRD loan in the amount of US$160 million equivalent for a period
of 17 years, including four years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate. The loan would be made to the Polish Power Grid Company and would
be guaranteed by the Republic of Poland.



I    ANNEXES          I



Annex 1-1
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
Legal
1.    Statute of PPGC
2.    Draft Energy Law (Update)
Financial/Economic
1.    PPGC Audit Reports and Annual Reports for 1992 and 1993
2.    Electric Power Tariff Study (RCG/Hagler, Bailly, September 1993)
3.    Pricing Proposal for the Energy Sector (Ministry of Industry and Trade
(MoIT), February 10, 1993)
4.    Power Retail Tariffs (Ministry of Finance, January 1993)
5.    Internal Transfer Prices in Power Sector (MoIT, 1992)
6.    Bulk power purchase contracting in a competitive market: an interim report
(PPGC/Coopers & Lybrand, October 1993).
7.    Diagnostic study on financial management (PPGC/ESB International, January
1993).
8.    Statistical Data on the Polish Power Industry, Energy Information Centre
Selected Working Papers
1.    Least-Cost Investment Study (PPGC/Verbtnd-Plan, December 1994)
2.    Transmission Optimization Study (Electricite de France, July 1993)
3.    PPGC - Findings and Recommendations related to the Telecommunications and
Telecontrol Systems and Energy Management System (Glenn Stagg, 1993)
4.    PPGC  - Review of the Organizational  Structure and Staffing Resources
(Glenn Stagg, 1993)
5.    Reorganization of the Electricity Sector in Poland (DECON, November 1992)
6.    Trends in Polish Power Industry Development (Jan Popczyk, November 1992)
7.    Restructuring of the Polish Power Industry - Achievements and Challenges
(Jan Popczyk and Zbigniew Kedzierski, February 1993)
8.    Polish Power Industry (PPGC - undated)
9.    PCB's studies-Stages 1 and 2 (Institute of Power Engineering, December
1993 and April 1994)
10.   Strategic Orientation for the Energy Sector in Poland (MoIT, June 1994)
Technical
1.    Modernization of the Polish Power Transmission System, Feasibility Study
(PPGC, 1993)
2.    400kV Ostrow Transmission System Project - Volumes I-V (PPGC, September
1993)
3.    400/220/110  kV Mikulowa  Substation Renovation  - Volumes  I-III  (PPGC
September 1993)
4.    Pre-feasibility and Feasibility Studies of Installing Shunt Reactors in
Polish 400 kV Grid (PPGC, June 1993 and August 1993).
5.    Joint Study on National Polish Power System (Final Report)(PSE,  EDF,
Vattenfall, VEAG and ABB, April 1993
6.    PHARE Regional Programme 1992 Study C, Support to the Implementation of
the Agreement between CENTREL and UCPTE (Final Report) Executive Summary
(August 1994)



Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 4
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
National Energy Balance
1.    Economic Reform and the Energy Sector.           The Polish economy, which
contracted sharply in 1990-91 after the Economic Transformation Program was
launched in January 1990, shows signs of recovering. After a 12 % decline in
1990 and an 8 % decline in 1991, GDP registered an increase of 1.5% in 1992 and
3.8% in 1993, the most recent year for which complete data are available. Among
the important structural changes which have taken place, the dominance of heavy
industries has declined and light industries have steadily increased in
importance. These macroeconomic and structural changes have had a major impact
on the energy sector.   Industrial energy consumption experienced the largest
decline (15% in 1990, 12% in 1991 and 8% in 1992), due to the significant
decrease in industrial output and the closure or downsizing of several major
energy-intensive enterprises, and a modest 1% growth in 1993. Residential energy
consumption also declined because of the decrease of real household incomes
combined with large increases in residential energy prices.   The level of
residential energy consumption in 1993 was 3% higher than in 1992 but still 11%
lower than in 1989. Consequently, Poland's total energy consumption decreased
by almost 20% in 1990 and by about 3% in 1991, and gradually increased by about
1% per year during 1992-93.
2.    Declining Production.   Poland produces on average 97% of its total energy
needs. Hard coal, lignite and natural gas are the main energy sources produced
in Poland.   Since 1990, their production experienced large declines due to
Poland's industrial restructuring and decline in industry demand. Hard Coal and
lignite: Continuing the downward trend started in 1989 when coal mines produced
a total of 111 million TOE, production decreased by about 17 million TOE (a 15%
drop) in 1990, by about 4 million TOE in 1991 (a 4% drop), by about 2 million TOE
in 1992 (a 2% drop), and reached 89 million TOE in 1993. With an annual hard
coal output of 76 million TOE (134 million tons) Poland is now ranked as the
world's seventh largest hard coal producer rather than the fourth as it had been
for many years until 1989.   Natural Gas: Domestic production of natural gas
varies according to the seasonal variations in gas demand, with contracted gas
imports (exclusively from the Former Soviet Union (FSU)) providing the base
supply. In 1990 production declined by about 1 million TOE, a 31% decline from
the 1989 level of 3.5 million TOE. Though it bounced back by about 12% to reach
a level of 2.7 million TOE in 1991, production in 1992, at a level of 2.6 million
TOE, was at only about 75% of the 1989 production level. Because of additional
gas supply requirements to meet growing demand from residential customers
combined with a decrease in gas imports, domestic production increased in 1993
by 28% to a level of 3.3 million TOE, corresponding to 95% of the 1989 production
level.
3.    Changes in Energy Trade.  Net imports account on average for 3% of Poland's
total energy needs. While imports typically provide nearly 100% of oil supplies
and 60-75% of gas supplies, exports consist mainly of hard coal. Because of
factor such as export quotas, the abrupt decline in exports to the FSU, and the



Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 4
continuous production declines, hard coal exports dropped sharply from the 1989
level (19.4 million TOE) and were in 1991 about 74% of the 1989 export level.
Starting in 1992, Poland diversified its export market and gradually increased
its coal exports again, to reach in 1993 about 85% of the 1989 export level. On
the import side, Poland imported 14.1 million TOE of crude oil in 1993, 5% less
than the 1989 level. More than half of the crude oil imports came from the FSU.
Natural gas imports from the FSU decreased in 1991 by about 1.5 million TOE from
the 1990 level (a 21% decline). Gas imports in 1992 stayed at the 1991 level and
decreased by 12% in 1993. Energy trade is now almost exclusively conducted in
hard currencies. In monetary terms, total energy imports in 1993 were US$2.3
billion, equal to 12% of total goods imports. Total energy exports were US$1.4
billion, equal to about 10% of total goods exports.
4.    Declining Role of Coal and Increasing Role of Gas, Oil and District Heat.
As the structure of the Polish economy changes and energy prices are being
adjusted towards economic levels, Poland's energy consumption is moving away from
coal towards natural gas and oil. Tighter enforcement of environmental standards
will accelerate this change. Though the share of coal (hard coal and lignite)
in primary energy supply has been stable at about 93% during 1989-93, the share
of coal in final energy consumption has declined significantly, from 41% in 1989
to 36% in 1993. During the same period, the combined share of oil and gas in
final energy consumption increased from 27% to 29% and the share of district heat
increased from 21% to 24%.   The drop of coal's share in final consumption
reflects in part the changes in the structure of industrial production, because
industrial sectors with high coal consumption experienced the sharpest
contraction during this period.   Another factor is the increasingly higher
environmental user charges and penalties, which induce a fuel switching away from
coal. Even though domestic supplies of both oil and gas will in the short-term
remain low compared to the potential demand, domestic gas production could supply
in the medium-term a larger part of demand if Poland's reserves of natural gas
and coal-bed methane are tapped more efficiently.



Annex 2-1
Page 3 of 4
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Summary of Energy Balances, 1989-1993
('000 TOE)
138$  1990   1991   2e21002=   10031
DOMESTIC PRODUCTION    116486      98273     94885      93525    94226
of which: Coal   111136   94460     90703      89189    89177
Oil      179       175       172       216       255
Gas     3464       2378      2658      2586      3304
Hydro      140        122       122       130       128
Other     1567      1138      1230       1404     1362
IMPORTS    26173      24073     20182      21270    20750
of which: Coal    656       393        38         91       92
Oil   14840      13113     11545     13207    14109
Gas     6364       6778      5321      5391      4735
Electricity  1037       897        577       433       482
Other     3276      2892      2701       2148     1332
EXPORTS    -22736    -22227    -16704    -16866   -18358
of which: Coal   -19435    -19302    -14324    -14882   -16502
Other    -3301     -2925      -2380     -1984    -1856
STOCK CHANGE        805      -1138      -788      -732     1306
TOTAL PRIMARY ENERGY SUPPLY    120728      98981     97575     97197    97924
LOSSES IN CONVERSION,                                             327
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION     38030     32633     32959      32127    32071
TOTAL AVAILABLE FOR CONSUMPTION      82698     66349     64617      65070    65853
of which :Coal    34080    21905    22463     23357    23832
Oil & Oil products    13978  11464     11260     12062    11897
Gas     8513       7901      6877      6843      7080
Electricity  8931      8248       7687      7358     7485
Heat    17197     16831      16330     15450    15559
CONSUMPTION BY SECTORS    82698       66349     64616    65070    65853
Industry    30334    25796     22782     20887    21082
Iron & Steel   8149      7348      5630      5238      5292
Chemicals    5209       4454      3979      3868      4011
Non-Ferrous Metals    704       561       547        336      355
Non-Metallic Minerals  4570      3494      3292      3149      3112
Other Industry    11702    9940      9334      8296      8312
Transport    9577      8056      8396       8798     8691
Agriculture   3190      3046      2869       2728     2693
Residence & Unspecific    34016  25062     27049      29271    30277
Non- E!r!Ise      5581      4389      3520       3386     3110



Annex 2-1
Page 4 of 4
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
National Energy Balance, 1993
('000 TOE)
liii.                                    u_n .n.mIhI Imm,.aim.~m  m. .~. _.,  * ,  .u.... lm.   a ,,  .. ,l.  ....   M ....  M.1 ...
IIANI      I'II1IF      I 11 11      'FIRK tlIHU                            IU J
c flMl,    MllS:I      (*111.    T'HItl I  tlIIIIREI    Il  11f'                       I LA I      11) I 11.
igenrms Production                            8YIT7         1362          255                      3304          IZX                                9422
mport                                            92                     14109         1332         4735                       482                   2075
Eixport                                      - 16502                                -1154           -13                     -689                   -18358
Sock Changes                                   1662                      -540          -31          215                                              13
hYOTAL PRIMARY ENERGY SUPPLY                  74429         1362        13824           147        8241           128        -207            0       97924
Stistical Differences                          -492                         0          255            1                                              -236
blic Electricity                                                                                               -128         128
Futoproducers of Electricity                                                                                       0           0
HP Plants                                    -33070                                  -148            -5                    10470        4145       -18608
Autoproducer for CHP                          -6562        -322                      -962           -50                      733        6213         -950
istrict Heating                              -9226         -106                      -368         -169                                  7161        -2708
as Works                                        -81                                    -8           37                                                -52
Poleum Refineries                                0                   -13824        13124           -37                      -39         -285       -1061
oal Transformation                            -983                                                 -60                                              -1043
iquefaction
r Transformation
n Use                                       -1090           -8                      -130        -262                     -2217        -1638       -5345
Distribution Losses                            -20                                    -14         -616                     -1383         -37        -2070
FTAL FINAL CONSUMPTION                       22905          927            0        11897         7080             0        74851      15559        65853
fNDUSTRY SECTOR                             7223          143            0          748         1836            0        3272         7860       21082
ronad Steel                                    3164                                     94          556                       628         850        529
|Chemical                                       186           0                       169          255                       742        2659         4011
of which: Petrochemicals                          0                                   104                                     76         627          80
on-Ferrous Metals                                78           2                         3           35                       173          64          355
on-Metallic Minirals                          1950            7                       103          580                       254         218        311
"ransport Equipment                              74           0                        27           34                       108         303          54
|chinery                                       340            1                        34          163                      371          654        1563
inring    Quarrying                            169           0                         60          131                      269          394        1023
ood& Tobacco                                    834           4                        82            64                      269         1102        2355
rPulp and Print                               40           0                        38             2                      169         718          967
ood and Wood Products                          114         124                         37            4                       91          242         61
onstruction                                     130           1                        95            6                        64         150         44
exdles and Leather                              134           2                         5            6                       130         499          77
IOther                                        10           2                          1            0                        4            7          2
*RtANSPORT SECTOR                               288            C            0         7772            4             0         461         166         8691
irTransport                                      0                                    686                                      1           3         6
oadTransport                                     56           0                      6764             1                       68          67        695
iways                                         230                                   260             3                      385           88         9
mernalNavigation                                  2                                     62            0                         7           8          7
THE   SECTORS                                15277          713            _         1726         3969            0         3752        7533       3297
griculture                                     320            6                      1649            3                       574         141        2693
rommerce and Public                                           0
|Residendal                                                                                      3392                      1567                    495
pfiher                                       14957          707                        77          5741                     1611        7392       25318
on-      v Use                                   117           71                      1651         12711           0            O                    311
of which: industry                              114          71                      1626         1271                         _                     308.
|~~~ .=                                                                                                                       _



Annex 2-2
Page 1 of 6
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Power Sector
A.    General
1.    Generation.   As of the end of 19931/, the power sector had an installed
electric  capacity  of 32,750 MW., of which  29,438 MW0 belongs  to the  power
industry and 3,312 MWe to auto-producers (manufacturing industry).  The power
industry generates its electricity from 27,431 MWe of thermal power plants
(system power plants: 23,354 MWe M/, combined heat and power (CHP) plants: 4,077
MW0) and 2,007 MWe of hydropower plants (run-of-river: 677 MWe., pumped-storage:
1,330 MW8). About 5.5% of the capacity of system plants can produce electricity
in cogeneration mode, bringing the available cogeneration capacity to about 5,353
MWe. In addition to electricity generation, the power industry supplies heat to
district heating  networks  throughout Poland.   Its  total available  thermal
capacity is about 26,940 MWt, of which about 11,435 14Wt are in CHP units and
15,505 MWt in heat only boiler (HOB) units. About 80% of the CHP units and 66%
of the HOB units are installed at the CHP plants. The remaining HOB capacity is
at the system plants (6%) and at HOB plants (28%).
2.    Gross electricity generation was about 134 TWh in 1993, down about 8% from
its 1989 peak (145 TWh) .  About 97% of the electrical energy is produced in
thermal plants; autoproducers account for about 6% of this total. The remaining
3% is hydro electrical energy; the share between run-of-river and pumped storage
plants is on average in the ratio 42:58.
3.    Until 1989, the power industry consumed on average about 60 million tons
(Mt) of low grade hard coal and about 70 million tons of lignite annually.
Average calorific values were about 4,360 kcal/kg for coal and 2,000 kcal/kg for
lignite. The coal that is being supplied typically has a high ash content (up
to 30%), despite the fact that most boilers are designed for an ash content of
up to 15%. As a result of slugging, plant outages are frequent. Because of the
sharp decrease in both electricity and heat demand, 1993 consumption of hard coal
and lignite was down to 41 Mt for hard coal and 66 Mt respectively. However,
more stringent environmental requirements have recently induced power plants to
seek better quality coal with at least 5,100 kcal/kg calorific value, 15-20% ash
content and less  than 0.8%  sulfur content.  Generating  capacity  is fuelled
primarily by hard coal (66%) and lignite (28%), while the remaining 6% is
provided by run-of-river hydro plants (2%) and pumped storage hydro plants (4%).
}V    The most recent year for which consistent sector-wide data are available.
2/    As used in Poland, the term system power plant means a power generation plant consisting of condensing
units that produce electricity only and that are connected to the 400 and 220 kV networks. There are 23 such
system power plants in Poland. Nine of them also have cogeneration units that supply district heat to the
neighborhoods.



Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 6
The volume of gas used for electricity generation is practically insignificant.
Small quantities of oil are consumed mostly for start-up and flame stabilization.
4.    The power industry has 55 thermal power plants, of which 32 are combined
heat and power plants.  In addition, it has 114 run-of-river hydro plants and 5
pumped-storage hydro plants.  The largest thermal power plant is the lignite
fired Belchatow plant with an installed capacity of 4,320 MWe.  The largest
hydropower plant is the pumped storage plant of Zarnowiec, with a total output
of 680 MWe. Auto-producers operate about 223 thermal power plants, the largest
being located at the oil refinery in Plock (275 MWe).
5.    Transmission Network.    The national electric power transmission grid
consists primarily of the 400 kV and 220 kV networks, with total lengths of 4,316
km and 8,294 km respectively, and of one 750 kV line of 114 km. Power is being
traded between Poland and its neighboring countries (Czech Republic, Germany, and
FSU) at the 400 and 220 kV voltage levels as well as at 750 kV, the latter mainly
for electricity import from the FSU. In addition, the Polish transmission grid
is used for power transit between the FSU and Austria and Switzerland, through
the Czech and Slovak systems.
6.    Substations.  The total power rating of the substations in the Polish power
industry  is  106,835  MVA.    At high voltage  levels,  there  are  159  power
transformers of total installed capacity of 30,225 MVA, of which: (i) 14 units
(5,920 MVA) are for power transfer involving 400/220 kV transformation; and (ii)
145 units (24,305 MVA) are for bulk-power supply involving 20 units (5,000 MVA)
of 400/110 kV transformation and 125 units (19,305 MVA) of 220/110 kV
transformation.    In addition,  there  are  two units  (5,000 MVA)  involving
750/400 kV transformation for power transfer from Ukraine.
7.    Status of Interconnection with UCPTE network.    Despite the absence of
synchronism between the UCPTE and the former CMEA system, there is a potential
transmission capacity of nearly 15,000 MVA in service or under construction
between the two systems. A large share of this capacity is currently used to
supply isolated zones. Otherwise, expensive back-to-back direct current links
allow the coupling of two non-synchronized systems.   The total capacity of
Poland's international interconnections is 4,500 MVA. The electricity exchanged
between Poland and its neighboring countries in 1993 was 8.0 TWh for exports and
5.6 TWh for imports. Energy exchanged with the FSU has been drastically reduced
to about 1.0 TWh (imports only) from its 1989 level of 7.7 TWh. The 750 kV line
from Ukraine is now practically unused.
8.    Several working groups of the UCPTE/UNIPEDE are studying the possibilities
of eventual connection of the Czech, Slovak, Polish and Hungarian power systems
to the unified UCPTE system, and the sequencing of such connections. In 1993,
the Polish Power Grid Company completed a study which evaluates opportunities for
adapting Poland's generation and transmission facilities to UCPTE requirements,
both from the technical as well as from the organizational point of view. This
study was done in collaboration with public utilities from France, Germany and
Sweden. This study identified the transmission development, rehabilitation and
modernization investments needed in the immediate future that satisfy both the



Annex 2-2
Page 3 of 6
operational requirements of the UCPTE system and at the same time meet the long-
term development needs of the Polish power system.   This is because UCPTE
operating requirements are typical of requirements that any power system should
meet to have secure and efficient system operations. In addition to the UCPTE
study, a long-term transmission development study was performed by Electricite
de France (EdF) which defined the optimal network configuration up to the year
2010, and analyzed the economic benefits of the identified network development.
In October 1993, the Czech and Slovak Republics, Hungary and Poland successfully
completed a test of the interconnection and synchronous operation of their four
networks, without ties with the FSU and German networks and in full compliance
with the UCPTE operation criteria.
9.    Distribution.   The distribution networks consist of the 110 kV grid, and
the medium and low voltage levels.  The 110 kV network has a total length of
31,446 km. The medium voltage network includes rated voltages ranging from 1 kV
to 60 kV, and has a total length of 267,403 km. The low voltage network consists
of voltage levels lower than 1 kV, and has total length of 366,200 km.
B.    Operational Status of the Existing Facilities of the Power Industry
a.    Generation
10.   Age of the Units.   The Polish power system suffers from aging units, most
of which have passed their design life. Out of the 255 turbosets, 89 units with
a total capacity of 2,831 MWe (or 10% of the installed electric capacity) have
been in service for over 30 years; 69 units (or 7,349 MW0 or 27% of total
installed electric capacity) are over 20 years old. By end-1997, corresponding
to the introduction of new emission standards, the average age for 17% of the
total capacity will be about 35 years and for 47% it will be about 29 years.
11.   Most of the thermal power plants built before 1985 were designed based on
Eastern European standards (Czechoslovak, Polish or Soviet) and the design life
is 15 years (or 100,000 hours) of operation, whereas the ones built after 1985
are designed based on Western standards (30 years lifetime or 200,000 hours).
By 1998, any rehabilitation work done on thermal power plants commissioned before
1980-85 will extend the lifetime by another 15-20 years at most and will include
major boiler and turbine overhaul. After that, additional investment for life
extension would have to be reconsidered. Although age of the plant does not tell
us much about the technical condition of the plants, it is an important factor
to consider in deciding whether or not to extend the life of the unit, and to
install major environmental control equipment such as flue gas desulfurization.
12.   Unit Availability - Forced Outages.  Poor instrumentation and automation
control, use of low quality coal and poor combustion techniques, and unit age are
some of the factors contributing to the low average plant availability in Poland
(75-85%), compared to an average for Western Europe of 85-90%.
13.   Efficiency.  Plant efficiency is defined as the utilization of the energy
content of the fuel consumed. At full production, the efficiency of Poland's



Annex 2-2
Page 4 of 6
coal-fired plants ranges from 25% to 36% for condensing units and from 60% to 84%
for cogenerating units. Lignite-fired units have an average efficiency of 34%.
Typical average efficiencies for coal-fired thermal plants and cogeneration units
in Western Europe are 34% and 85%, respectively.
14.   System Flexibility.  96% of Poland's power generating capacity is baseload
capacity, not adapted for load following.   Although the peaking function is
ensured by the pumped storage hydro plants (4% of power generating capacity), the
Polish power system is in need for further peaking capacity, mainly from gas
turbines.
15.   Environmental Performance.  Until 1989, the power industry generated about
2.0 Million tons (Mt) of SO2 and 0.8 Mt of dust annually. It contributed 50% of
the SO2 and 31% of the dust emitted nationwide.  In 1993, the power industry
generated about 1.3 Mt of S02 (35% reduction) and 0.3 Mt of dust (63% reduction),
contributing to 47% of the SO2 and 17%% of the dust emitted nationwide.  The
following factors contributed together to these reductions: (i) the sharp
decrease in both electricity and heat demand; (ii) more stringent environmental
requirements; (iii) the use of better quality coal in electricity and heat
production; and (iv) environmental protection investments within the power
industry focusing initially almost exclusively on improving the efficiency of the
electrostatic precipitators  to reduce particulate emissions.   The average
efficiency of these precipitators is currently 97%. NOx emissions from the power
industry were stable at about 0.4 Mt annually (a third of NOx emitted
nationwide).  The introduction of new environmental standards (para. 16) will
cause a shift in investments towards equipment for limiting sulfur dioxide and
nitrogen oxides, as well as for further improvements in electrostatic
precipitator performance to reach an efficiency level of above 99%.
16.   The Government of Poland introduced new environmental standards for the
period after December 31, 1997. The standards are for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen
oxide and particulate emissions and distinguish three categories: A (old plants);
B (rehabilitated plants); and C (new plants). About 2,900 MW. (or 11%) of the
total installed capacity of thermal power plants does not meet the SO2 emission
level for Category A. About 12,300 MWe (or 45%) marginally meet the Category A
emission levels for particulates. Because of recent improvements in fuel quality
about 60% of the capacity of existing thermal power plants now meets the Category
B level for SO2.  Only 10% and 25% of the capacity of existing thermal power
plants meet Category B emission level for particulates and NOx, respectively.
However, because of ongoing investments in efficiency improvement of
electrostatic precipitators compliance with Category B emission levels for
particulates will be achieved for about 50% of the thermal power plants by 1995
and up to 90% by 1997. Similarly, ongoing investments in primary NOx reduction
methods (combustion modifications and installation of low-NOx-burners) will
permit to achieve compliance for about 40% of thermal power plants by 1997. Flue
gas desulfurization installations were completed by the end of 1994 for thermal
power units with a 2,240 MW0 total capacity. None of the thermal power plants
comply with Category C emission limits for SO2 at this stage.



Annex 2-2
Page 5 of 6
17.   Cogeneration of Heat and Power.   Over the period 1990-92, CHP plants
account for 66% of the power industry's total heat production but only for 10%
of total electricity generation. A number of large HOBs were originally planned
to be CHP units, but because of a shortage of funds they were kept as heating
plants without electricity cogeneration capability. These HOBs are inefficient.
Investment in CHP is crucial to heat supply but is a relatively smaller concern
in overall electric power investment.   The total contribution of CHP plants
belonging to power industry and autoproducers to public district heat sales is
estimated to be in the range of 20-30% (50-60% of the heat sold by the power
industry and autoproducers to district heating enterprises is cogenerated),
depending on the load factor.   This proportion is below the 70-80% range
generally considered as optimal. By introducing proper pricing for bulk heat
between the power utility and the DHEs and enforcing environmental regulations
for heavily polluting local HOBs, CHP's contribution in both power and heat
production should be increased.   In addition, a strategy towards converting
either existing condensing plants and/or coal burning HOBs to a CHP mode of
operation should be developed, wherever natural gas fired CHPs/HOBs are not a
viable option.   Both strategies would provide a higher efficiency of coal
utilization and environmental improvement.
18.   Staffing.  The power industry employed about 57,545 people in 1993, of
which more than half of the employees are in generation. For the power industry,
operating personnel is on average high at 575 employees per TWh of sales compared
to a West European average of 355 employees/TWh. However, for Western European
utilities with similar overall sales, this indicator is in the range 130-200
employees per TWh.
b.    Transmission and Distribution
19.   The 400 kV transmission grid was build during the 1970s and '80s. Although
quite modern in concept, it is still not a fully integrated system.   Hence,
reliability of electricity supply in case of plant failure is low. The 220 kV
grid was built in the 1950s and '60s, and is fully utilized.  Some areas in the
Upper Silesia are overloaded, thus increasing energy losses.  Networks at 110 kV
voltage and lower are of poor design and obsolete technologies, lack connecting
and safety devices, and are in need of major rehabilitation. Transmission and
distribution losses in Poland average about 14%, and are the highest in Europe
(average 7-8% for similar systems); about 85% of these losses are in the
distribution networks. A detailed assessment of the high voltage transmission
networks is presented in Annex 2-4.
C.    Power Demand
20.   Present Power Demand.  1993 peak demand was at 22,749 MW., up by about 6%
over the 1992 peak but still about 6% lower than the 1989 peak and 3% over the
1990 peak. During 1990-93, system gross reserve margin varied within the 25-33%
range,  typical for a thermal system.   However,  since the winter peaks are
pronounced in Poland, this means that during the remainder of the year the
margins may go up to 40-50%.  Over the period 1990-93, the share of households



Annex 2-2
Page 6 of 6
has remained at about 22% of final electricity consumption, the share of the
commercial sector has increased from 8% to 11%, and the share of the industry has
decreased from 61% to 58%. The balance is for agriculture and street lighting,
which has remained stable at about 9% of total consumption.
21.   System Load Factor.   Until 1989, the system load factor was on average
about 69%. This is typical for a system with a flat load curve and confirms that
the Polish system is energy intensive. The load factor decreased to about 66%
during 1990-91, increased to about 70% in 1992 and decreased again to 66% in
1993. The decrease in 1990-91 and in 1993 can be explained partially by the
energy restructuring program and consumer awareness due to increases in energy
prices. The 1992 increase in the load factor can probably be explained by the
fact that consumers have become accustomed to the new electricity price levels.
The load factor is an important factor to consider in planning energy strategy
for the future.   A high load factor is significant in several respects:  (i)
efficiency measures must be effective over a period of many hours in order to
have a significant impact; (ii) it makes it more difficult to schedule planned
maintenance, especially when long lasting reliability problems appear; and (iii)
it makes pollution problems more severe and increases the need for pollution
controls.
22.   This period of relatively low electricity demand combined with the current
excess capacity provides an ideal opportunity for: (a) implementing a more
aggressive plant retirement, rehabilitation and modernization program; (b) making
provision for installing additional peaking plants (e.g., relatively cheap and
quick to install gas turbines), if demand growth should materialize, thus
deferring any major capital intensive baseload plants beyond 2000; (c) defining
an implementation strategy for improving the environmental performance of thermal
power plants to the extent possible to meet new emission standards on a least-
cost basis; (d) strengthening the transmission grid, and increasing its transfer
capacity and reliability through automation and loop closing; and (e) reducing
transmission and distribution energy losses through flow switching from the
presently overloaded 110 kV grid to higher voltage carriers.



Annex 2-3
Page 1 of 3
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Current Network Condition
General Assessment
1.    The 400 kV transmission system was designed originally to permit wheeling
of power through Poland, particularly from the Ukraine to the Czech Republic, and
exchange of power with the former East Germany. However, during recent years,
the 400 kV system was further developed to function as an overlay of the lower
voltage systems to permit bulk power transfer within the country and thereby
offload these systems.  System reliability under (n-l) criterionl, is not always
met and will be further negatively affected once Poland loses its interconnection
with the former East German system (possibly by end of 1994). Equipment at the
400 kV level is generally less than 20 years old and in better condition than the
220 and 110 kV equipment.  However, modernization of the 400 kV equipment is
needed  to  provide  more  reliable  equipment performance.   Under light load
conditions, the system voltage control is presently inadequate and is in need of
reactive power compensation. This would avoid having to switch off 400 kV lines
as a means to control system voltage.
2.    At the 220 and 110 kV levels the situation is worse, especially at the 110
kV level. Because of obsolete design, equipment at these voltage 'Levels is no
longer capable of meeting the original functional specifications in a
satisfactory way.   Current system protection under fault conditions  is not
secure.    Equipment  failure  is  therefore  high  and  system  reliability  is
significantly reduced. In addition, equipment can explode and is thus unsafe.
Current equipment technology is also obsolete and 220 kV and 110 kV equipment is
more than 20 and 40 years old, respectively. This poses severe problems with
respect to availability of spare parts, network operation, operators and workers
training, and of compatibility with more modern equipment. Protection, control
and telecommunications systems, at both the 220 kV and 110 kV substations,
provide inadequate performance from the point of view of both security and
dependability. Energy management and network dispatching cannot be carried out
on real-time basis. Finally, transmission losses are high, especially at the 110
kV level.   This is due to the fact that the 110 kV system is overloaded in
certain areas and is used as a sub-transmission system rather than as a regional
distribution network. Modernization of the 400 and 220 kV levels will permit to
off-load the 110 kV network and thus reduce transmission losses.
Current Condition of the Network's Primary Apparatus
3.    At the 400 kV Level.  The equipment at this level is relatively recent (on
average less than 20 years old) and its performance is relatively better than
that of the other voltage levels. Some of the 400 kV primary equipment will need
The (n-1) criterion is that a power system must be able to maintain its supply and demand balance even in
case of an outage of one major network operating element (the largest generation plant, or one transmission
line, or one transformer, or in certain instances one busbar).



Annex 2-3
Page 2 of 3
to be replaced in order to shorten fault clearance times and provide more
reliable equipment performance.
4.    At the 220 kV Level.  A large proportion of the 220 kV equipment is at
least 20 years old.   Service experience has illustrated that most problems
encountered are mechanical in nature, especially with equipment of the air blast
design, which could explode. Operational performance has been quite unreliable.
For 220 kV primary apparatus, spare parts are no longer available, as the design
is no longer being manufactured.  At the 220 and 110 kV levels, a mixture of
modernization of substations and direct replacement is required.
5.    At the 110 kV Level.  The worst situation is at the 110 kV level, where
much of the primary equipment is totally obsolete, at least 40 years old in
design and service life, and requires frequent attention to maintain a barely
acceptable level of mechanical performance. There is a mixture of airblast and
minimum oil circuit breaker types, none of which are likely to be capable of
performing their assigned rating and cannot be assigned any useful fault current
interruption rating. Spare parts are virtually unavailable, which represents a
major problem.
Current Condition of the Network's Secondary Apparatus
6.    The secondary equipment utilized in both the 220 and 110 kV substations,
comprising the protection, control and telecommunications systems, provides an
inadequate performance from the point of view of both security and dependability.
Transmission lines require duplicate main protection, but the existing scheme
comprises only a single main protection with supplementary ground relaying. In
many instances fault clearing times are quite long, resulting in poor network
performance. In a number of instances busbar zone protection is not provided,
which may cause widespread shutdown of the 220 kV network in case of a busbar
fault.   The secondary equipment needs to be upgraded to achieve more secure
protection clearing times in order to meet the performance criteria of the Polish
power grid, whether interconnected with UCPTE or operating in isolation.
Redundancy of protective relaying, together with design diversity is necessary
to achieve these objectives, particularly in the case of transmission line
protection. The same level of redundancy and security will need to be applied
to the auxiliary power systems supplying the relaying schemes to achieve the
necessary duplication of the AC and DC auxiliary power systems.   At large
substations at key points within the transmission system, emergency diesel
generators will be needed to permit the restoration of power supply to the
substation in the event of a total power system blackout.
Factors Influencing Future Network Development
7.    Future development plans need to recognize the following factors:  (a)
short-term loss of synchronous ties with VEAG (the power system covering the
former East Germany); (b) reinforcement of ties to the Czech Republic and
Slovakia to permit North-South power flow; (c) loss of synchronous ties to the
FSU; (d) need to reinforce power supply to the Southwestern load area of Poland,
particularly in view of the loss of ties to VEAG; (e) power system upgrade to
meet UCPTE performance levels that would permit restoration of synchronous ties
to VEAG and thus to UCPTE; (f) need for shutting down generating units at major



Annex 2-3
Page 3 of 3
plants for refurbishment and environmental upgrading, together with the upgrading
and modernization of the major Mikulowa 400/220/110 kV substation; and (g) need
for reactive power control to avoid switching off 400 kV lines for system voltage
control. These factors are significant in determining the short and medium term
system reinforcement requirements.
System Planning Criteria
8.    Current system planning utilizes the (n-i) criterion. Modernization of the
400 and 220 kV facilities will be required to provide more rapid and secure
tripping under system fault conditions, e.g. duplicate main protection on
transmission lines, installation of bus zone protections, etc. The 220 kV system
will not be significantly expanded but relatively small incremental investments
will be needed. The principal investments will comprise reinforcement of the
110 kV system, via 400/110 kV transformation, in order to relegate it to its
proper function of power distribution on a regional basis and interconnection of
CHP plants.
Work Required at 400/220/110 kV Levels
9.    The work required across the 400/220/110 kV interconnected system may be
classified as follows: (a) modernization in accordance with UCPTE criteria, e.g.
decrease of fault clearing time, faster circuit breakers and protection relays,
and higher security relaying systems  to ensure fault detection.   This is
typically required for 400 kV equipment in substations that are essential to the
UCPTE interconnection; (b) refurbishment as required by increase in network load,
e.g.  fault levels and changes of the circuit breakers.   This is typically
required for the 220 kV equipment in substations that are essential to both the
Polish power network and the UCPTE interconnection; (c) replacement of inadequate
equipment as indicated by poor performance, high failure rate, lack of spare
parts, high maintenance costs, obsolete equipment and design limitations. This
is typically required for 220 and 110 kV substations using the old Russian type
of equipment; and (d) replacement of equipment likely to fail (explode) and that
could endanger the safety of operating staff and of the public where stations are
close to public areas.   This is typically required for the 110 kV equipment
substations.
10.   A comprehensive survey has been completed by PPGC that identifies all 400
and 220 kV primary equipment in need of replacement. A priority schedule was
established for replacement of 400 and 220 kV equipment in substations located
in the western part of Poland (adjacent to the borders). These substations are
critical both to the Polish power network and the UCPTE interconnection.   A
program for rehabilitating the other 400 and 220 kV substation equipment will be
implemented after completion of this project. While this schedule also includes
replacement of 110 kV substation equipment in conjunction with 400 and 220 kV
equipment, a major separate replacement program will also be required for all
other 110 kV equipment, which is the responsibility of the distribution
companies. This should be developed in conjunction with the relegation of this
network to a normal power distribution function (as opposed to a subtransmission
function). In other words, the 110 kV equipment substations should be replaced
only if they are an integral part of a long-term distribution system development
plan.



Annex 3-1
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
PPGC Organizational Chart
,~~~~~~~~.   .   .-. ... ........  .. ., ...  .....    .
SUPERVISORY
COUNCIL
BOARD
OF DIRECTORS
..................... .........  . . .. . .^
lS ........77
STR~ATEGIC              EXECUJTIVE               REIONAL
_ FUNCTIONS               FUNCTrIONS               MGT. OFFICES
DEVELOPMENT              TEHIA                    WRZW
ECONOM ICS         - I NVESTM ENTS                KATOWICE
INTERNATIONAL           INTERNATIONAL
|STRATEGY                 DIVISION                 POZNAN
FINANCE
AND                    RADOM
ACCOU NTI NG
PERSONNEL                         |
AND     ll BYDGOSZCl
ADMINISTRATION|ll
I CIVIL    I
LEGAL 
OFFICE
BOARD|
|ADMINISTRATION|
l PUBLIC   l
l POWER    l
DIPAC



Annex 3-2
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Transmission Assets Transfer
1.    Following  creation  of  PPGC  as  a joint  stock  company  in  1990,  an
unanticipated legal issue arose.   The high voltage transmission and pumped
storage assets could not be simply transferred from the (state-owned)
distribution companies to a joint stock company, except as a sales transaction
at a prohibitive cost.  However, the Law on Ownership Transformation of Certain
State-Owned Enterprises of Fundamental Importance for the State Economy of
February 5, 1993 enabled the Minister of Industry, inter alia, to transfer assets
between commercialized entities by decree.   Such transfers are subject to
approval from the Anti-Monopoly Office and the Council of Ministers, the latter
in order to avoid payment of a 40% transfer tax.
2.    Under the above mentioned law,  the power distribution companies were
commercialized in July 1993. An August 31, 1993 decree on the transfer of assets
to PPGC stipulated transfer of all lines and substation equipment at the 750,400
and 220 kV levels, selected pumped storage plants, and some equipment at the 110
kV level to PPGC. Since certain investments will be needed at the 110 kV level
to protect investments proposed to be made at higher voltage levels, ownership
of interface assets at the 110 kV level was important.
3.    Asset Valuation.  As for the rest of the energy sector, fixed assets in the
power sector are significantly undervalued. Studies performed by consultants for
the Grid indicate that, based on replacement value methodology, the high voltage
and pumped storage assets should be revalued by a factor of about 6.0 times. The
gross book value of the assets transferred to PPGC was about US$ 415 million,
while the gross replacement value would be US$ 2.4 billion. The net values are
about 50% of the corresponding gross values.
4.    Pumped Storage Plants.  Pumped storage plants are primarily used to cope
with peak demand. Their effective operation requires a detailed knowledge of
marginal costs at different times of the day, as well as exact information of all
circumstances concerning the ability to generate electricity elsewhere in the
network. These factors favored transfer of these assets to PPGC. Four pumped
storage plants (Zarnowiec (680 MW), Porabka-Zar (500 MW), Zydowo (150 MW), Dychow
(48 MW)) were transferred to the Grid and merged into one large joint stock
company. Prior to August 31, 1993, these plants were independent companies, not
associated with a distribution company.   The Grid has taken a 75% equity share
in these companies, and the plants themselves took most of the remaining share
capital. The plants are being operated and maintained by four separate joint
stock companies, owned by the employees who got a part of the share capital of
the pumped storage power plants themselves. One pumped storage plant (Solina;
136 MW) remained with its local distribution company. This will enable it to
meet its local peak demand and thus reduce its take-off from the national grid.
As a result, its bulk supply price could be lower.



Annex 3-3
Page 1 of 5
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Electricity Tariff Structure
A.    Retail Tariff Structure
1.    A new structure for power retail tariffs was introduced on January 1, 1993.
The new structure intends to establish retail tariffs for different consumption
categories on the basis of costs of delivering a unit of electric energy, so it
represents a significant step towards price rationalization in the power sector.
Table 1 shows the retail tariff structure as of January 1, 1995.
2.    The new structure is mainly composed of the following classes of tariffs
on the basis of voltage levels:
Class A - high voltage tariff for voltage levels equal to or above 100 kV
(mainly large industrial enterprises);
Class B - medium voltage tariff for voltage levels between 1 kV and 60 kV
(medium industrial and commercial enterprises, railroad); and
Class C - low voltage tariff for voltage levels below 1 kV (small
industrial, commercial, large rural, and residential customers with demand
of more than 40 kW on capacity or of 80 MWh on energy per year);
Class G - low voltage tariff for residential customers with demand of less
than 40 kW and 80 MWh, respectively, per year.
Class R - medium or low voltage level tariff for customers not connected
to meters and whose usage lasts a short period of time, such as lighting
for outdoor concerts, shooting films).
3.    Each class is further subdivided into several categories according to
whether: (a) capacity and energy are charged separately, and (b) charges are
differentiated by time of a day. A system of symbols is developed to represent
each tariff category in each class. A typical tariff category can be represented
as (Xyz), where X represents the class of the tariff (A, B, C, G, or R); Y
indicates whether the tariff is two-part (capacity and energy) or one-part (2 for
two-part and 1 for one-part); and Z indicates whether the tariff is time-related
(1 for one rate over 24 hours, 2 for peak and off-peak rate, and 3 for peak, off-
peak and night rate).  For example, C22 represents a low voltage level tariff
with a two-part charge (capacity and energy) and two rates (peak and off-peak).
4.    Most customers with capacity demand higher than 40 kW or annual energy
demand of more than 80 MWh are charged according to a two-part tariff. Customers
whose capacity demand is lower than 40 kW and annual energy demand is less than
80 MWh are charged a one-part tariff and can choose either uniform or time-
related rates.



POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Retail Tariff Structure
(as of January 1, 1995)
- -  - ...         :Capacity Demand Rate (zl/kW)   _                              Rates for the Active Energy zl/kWh       _      _
Montht1V                        Monthly rate
Tariff -: Annuat---rate    -rate for -   - Mo  nthly.rate-    for actual used  Flat                 Off peak                     -
Clss   -for ordered      ordered        for actual      demand above   124 hour)   Peak rate          rate      Day rate  ... Night rat*e
demand        demand  :- used demand           the ordered        rate                                                    ....
__________ --___-__-__-   dem and                                |-                      : ._.
A 21         22.80           1.90           5.52               9.50           0.08
A 22         22.80           1.90           5.52               9.50             -          0.12         0.07          -
A 23         22.80           1.90           5.52               9.50             -          0.12          -          0.07          0.04
B 11-                                                           -             0.12                 -                  -            -
B21          25.08          2.09            5.71              10.45           0.09           -           -
B22          25.08          2.09            5.71              10.45             -          0.12         0.07          -            -
B23          25.08          2.09            5.71              10.45             -          0.12          -          0.07          0.05
C21          27.60          2.30            7.61              11.50            0.12          -           -            -            -
C22a         27.60          2.30            7.61              11.50             -          0.17         0.11          -            -
C22b         27.60          2.30            7.61              11.50             -            -           -          0.13          0.07
C1l                    -                      -                 -             0.18           -           -            -            -
Cl2a                                                                            -          0.20         0.11          -            -
Cl2b                                                                            -            -           -          0.20          0.08
Gl                                                                            0.15                      |--
G12                                                                             -                                   0.17          0.07
cr q :j
w    x
F~U,



Annex 3-3
Page 3 of 5
5.    The demand charge in a two-part tariff is determined as follows:
i)    Before December of each year,  the customer submits an order of
demanded capacity (measured as the maximum 15-minutes active load
for each service line) in every month for the following year. If
the ordered capacity does not vary by month, there is a 10% discount
on the charge. The capacity demand can also be ordered during the
year with a monthly advance notice, but the charge will be 30%
higher. The customer can also make adjustment on already ordered
capacity with one month advance notice, in which case the charge
will be 20% higher for the month in which the adjustment is made.
ii)   If the actual used capacity is more than ordered,  a penalty is
applied: the excessive capacity load will be 500% higher than the
ordered capacity charge.
6.    The time zones for setting the time-related rate for the two-part tariff
is as follows:
Month     Seaso       Peak lime              Off-Peak Time
Morning  Evening      Day     Nghft
January      Winter   8-11    16-21       6-8 11-16   21-6
February              8-11    16-21       6-8 11-16   21-6
March                 8-11    18-21       6-8 11-18   21-6
April        Summer  8-11    19-21        6-8 11-19   21-6
May                   8-11    20-21       6-8 11-20   21-6
June                  8-1 1    20-21      6-8 11-20   21-6
July                   8-11    20-21      6-8 11-20   21-6
August                8-11    20-21       6-8 11-20   21-6
September             8-11    19-21       6-8 11-19   21-6
October      Winter   8-11    18-21       6-8 11-18   21-6
November              8-11    16-21       6-8 11-16   21-6
December              8-11    16-21       6-8 11-16   21-6
7.    The time zone for setting the time-related rate for the one-part tariff is
as follows:
[  Month        P"k rime        Off-Peek nlm
April to September    8-11   20-21  Remaining hours
October to March   8-11   17-21     Remaining hours
or time zones negotiated with the distribution companies and set in the supply
contract:
Low Price Zone    10 hours per day (8 hours in off peak period and 2
hours in non off-peak period)
High Price Zone    The remaining 14 hours



Annex 3-3
Page 4 of 5
8.    The following table summarizes the distribution of the number of customers
and the volume of consumption in each tariff class during January 1994.
Number of      %        Consumption       %
Customers        |         (MWh)
Class A                287       0.0        27,968,410     30.0
Class B              24,371      0.2        25,868,518     27.7
Class C            1,339,077     9.1        14,485,586     15.5
Class G           13,340,823    90.7        25,036,958     26.8
Class R               2,266      0.0           18,697       0.0
Total            14,706,824    100.0       93,378,169    100.0
B.    Transfer Pricing Structure
a.    Between Generation and Transmission
9.    The transfer price between generation and transmission is composed of a
fixed charge, representing the capacity payment, and a variable charge,
representing fuel and other variable expenses.
10.   Fixed Payment Calculation.   Capacity for any generating plant, can be
specified in 5 different ways:
i)    Standard Capacity (SC): the average annual achieved capacity of the
generating plant during the last 3 years;
ii)   Declared Capacity (DC): the capacity the generating plant desires to
sell, calculated by subtracting the planned and expected forced
outages from the standard capacity;
iii)  Ordered Capacity (OC): the capacity PPGC plans to buy;
iv)   Non-Ordered Capacity (NC): the capacity declared but not bought; and
v)    Realized Capacity (RC): the capacity actually sold to PPGC.
The following always holds:
SC => DC => OC => RC, and SC -> OC + NC.
11.   Each year, on the basis of projected demand and a reserve margin, the
Ministry of Industry and Trade prepares an annual capacity balance. The capacity
is then allocated to generators, according to the average cost of production in
generating plants, starting with the least cost producer such as the base load
plants.   For these low cost producers,  DC is equal  to OC;  for high cost
producers, OC is less than DC, or OC is equal to zero. The fixed payment for



Annex 3-3
Page 5 of 5
each generating plant is determined based on the standard capacity, but with
higher payment to ordered capacity and lower payment to non-ordered capacity.
12.   Realized capacity may be less than ordered capacity due to a variety of
reasons. If it is due to lack of demand, the total ordered capacity is paid.
If it is due to plant failure, the plant has to compensate PPGC for the
undelivered capacity.
13.   The payment to each unit of capacity is composed of: depreciation, debt
service, repair and maintenance cost (overhead) and the allowed return to fixed
assets in generating plants. The levels of depreciation and debt service vary
among generating plants, so they are determined on the basis of each individual
plant. However, the repair and maintenance cost is determined by the averages
for different types of generators of all generating plants. Altogether there are
8 types of different generators grouped according to capacity, fuel requirements,
and mode of generation (power only or CHP), and each of them has a different cost
structure. The allowed return on fixed assets, which may vary from time to time
and is defined as the rate of return on the book value of the fixed assets, is
uniform across generation, transmission and distribution subsectors. However,
only a portion (65% in 1994) of this allowed return on the fixed assets is
included in the fixed payment; the remaining 35% is part of the variable payment.
By transferring a portion of the return on assets to the variable payment, those
generators which sell more electricity to PPGC receive higher payment for their
fixed assets.
14.   Variable Payment Calculation. The variable payment to each unit of energy
delivered is the sum of the following cost items: fuel, transportation,
environment fee and a portion of the return on fixed assets. The cost of fuel
is calculated on the basis of the calorific value of the standard fuel (hard
coal) for all plants; the transportation cost is calculated on a standard rate
per unit of standard fuel for all plants; and the environment user charges are
calculated based on the emission levels of standard fuel and the actual
environmental fee. For CHP plants of capacity less than 100 MWe, the payment is
an aggregate unit kWh charge, comprising fixed and variable costs, calculated on
the basis of prices set for collector power plants.
b.    Between Transmission and Distribution
15.   The  transfer  price  between  PPGC  and  the  distribution  companies  is
determined individually, taking into account the following cost items of the
distribution company: depreciation, debt service, repair and maintenance costs,
the rate of return on fixed assets and distribution losses.   The repair and
maintenance cost is an average for all distribution companies. Other costs are
also individually dependent on each distribution company.



Annex 3-4
Page 1 of 5
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Least-Cost Power Generation Program
Background
1.    The least-cost investment program (LCIP) for power generation is a part of
PPGC's integrated resources planning (IRP) activities. At the request of PPGC,
the Bank arranged grant-financed assistance for the LCIP study for power
generation. The firm Verbund-Plan GmbH of Austria was selected for this task.
Several Polish institutes and foreign firms participated in this study. Because
of the necessity to collect and establish consistent sector-wide data, the study
took about two years and was completed on December 1994.
2.    The study covers the planning period 1992-2020 with 1992 as the base year.
Its major focus includes identifying units that are candidates for retirement,
those that are suitable for rehabilitation and environmental improvement, an
analysis of economic dispatching strategy under environmental constraints, the
needs for new generating capacity, and a future capacity structure given the fuel
supply mix.   The results of the study and the recommendations for the next
iteration are summarized below.
Rehabilitation of System Power Plants
3.    Methodology.  System power plantsl/ were first analyzed on a unit-by-unit
basis and units with operating time above 120,000 hours were considered as
candidates for rehabilitation. Because of the large number of units and possible
rehabilitation combinations thereof, which exceed the optimization capabilities
of available computerized tools for system analysis, the system power units were
grouped into in 14 aggregate plants, each aggregate comprising a number of units
of  similar  size  and  design.    For  each  aggregate,  the  following  four
rehabilitation options were analyzed: (i) doing nothing, i.e. keeping the unit
running without any investment until retirement (option 1); (ii) life extension
to 240,000 hours total and modernization to reach design performance level
(option 2); (iii) same as (ii), with additional improvement in operational
efficiency and flexibility (option 3); and (iv) same as (iii), with additional
life extension to 270,000 hours total (option 4).
4.    Results.  A system optimization was carried out, resulting in the following
rehabilitation strategy for the aggregate plants. In most cases, rehabilitation
turned out to be more economic than new capacity investments.   For most hard
As used in Poland, the term system power plant means a power generation plant consisting of condensing
units that produce electricity only and that are connected to the 400 and 220 kV networks. There are 23 such
system power plants in Poland. Nine of them also have cogeneration units that supply district heat to the
neighborhoods.



Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 5
coal-fired 200 MWe units, advanced rehabilitation (options 3 and 4) is
recommended. This would apply to about 1,600 MW. for option 3 and 5,200 MW. for
option 4.   For the remaining hard coal-fired units (5,200 MW,) option 2 is
preferable. Advanced rehabilitation (option 3) is also recommended for 6,120 MW.
of lignite-fired units. Rehabilitation of existing oil-fired units (400 MW.)
using the same oil-firing technology is not economic.   For plants with unit
capacity less than 100 MW0, rehabilitation is not economic and repowering or
conversion to cogeneration should be considered. Rehabilitation of system power
plants would result in an increase in available capacity of 1,530 MW. during
1994-2010, of which 860 MWe would be achieved during 1994-2000. About 67% of the
capacity increase would be achieved in the hard-coal fired plants and the
remaining 33% in the lignite-fired plants.
5.    Costs and Schedule.  Assuming a rehabilitation implementation capacity of
2,000 MW0 per year and a site constraint of no more than two rehabilitation units
in one site during the same year, the above can be implemented during 1994-2005.
Investment for rehabilitation of system power plants would amount to US$3.2
billion, with an annual average of about US$345 million during 1994-2000 and
about US$225 million during 2001-2005.
Environmental Upgrade of System Power Plants
6.    The 1998 Polish emission standards are for sulfur dioxide (S02), nitrogen
oxide (NOx) and particulate emissions and distinguish three categories: A (old
plants); B (rehabilitated plants); and C (new plants). Compliance of the system
power plants with the 1998 Polish emission standards, applied on a unit-by-unit
basis, would require: (i) a reduction of NOx and particulates emissions for both
Category B and C by about 56% and 34%, respectively; and (ii) a reduction of SO2
emissions by about 30% for Category B and 80% for Category C. Using commercially
available technologies for the environmental retrofit of the system power plants,
compliance with Polish emission standards would require investments in
environmental  installations  amounting  to:  (i)  about  US$1.14  billion  (or
UScent 0.35/kWh) for Category B standard, of which US$660 million (or 58%) for
S02 compliance, US$260 million (or 23%) for NOx compliance and US$220 million (or
19%)  for  particulates  compliance;  and  (ii)  about  US$3.7  billion  (or
UScent 0.9/kWh) for Category C standard, of which US$3.2 billion (or 86%) for S02
compliance. However, a reduction of about 12% (US$80 million) in investment
costs for desulfurization equipment could be achieved by applying the bubble
concept over each system power plant.
7.    Compliance of the system power plants with the S02 ambient air standards
would require an additional US$900 million investment in desulfurization
installations over the requirements for Category B compliance, bringing the total
investment cost for environmental compliance to about US$2.0 billion.
Development of Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Plants
8.    CHP development remains a priority strategy for the Polish energy sector,
as it improves the efficiency of heat production and reduces environmental



Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 5
pollution, compared with a situation where heat and power are produced
separately. Because CHP development involves local optimization, there is no
satisfactory methodology for carrying out dual optimization to find a national
LCIP for the rehabilitation, environmental upgrade and expansion of a system
containing many plants that produce both heat and power. It is also expected
that most CHP units that are candidates for retirement would be replaced by the
cogeneration alternatives resulting from the local optimization. The problem is
further complicated by the large number of CHP rehabilitation candidates and
potential for CHP development in Poland. In addition, the economic justification
for the rehabilitation and environmental upgrade of existing CHP plants should
be evaluated in conjunction with an assessment of the associated district heating
systems and of the local environmental requirements and site specifics. Such an
assessment in turn would provide the optimum heat cogeneration requirement within
the  region.    However,  development  of new CHP plants  and  any additional
cogenerated electricity should also be evaluated from the power system point of
view and on a case-by-case basis.  For all these reasons, a ranking list and
priority schedule of CHP candidates was not established within the framework of
this study. Only a general assessment of CHP development potential in Poland was
made instead.
9.    Potential CHP development over the period 1995-2010 would cost about US$6.6
billion (US$220-500 million per year) and would include: (i) rehabilitation of
existing CHP sources and Category B environmental upgrade (US$1.84 billion, of
which US$1.15 is for the period 1995-2000); (ii) adaptation of some system power
plants to produce heat in cogeneration mode (US$275 million, of which US$220
million is for the period 1995-2000); and (iii) development of new CHP sources
(US$4.5 billion, of which US$1.8 is for the period 1995-2000). The retirement
and the rehabilitation of CHP plants would result in a net increase in available
capacity of 322 MW0 during 1994-2010, of which about 90% would be achieved before
2000.
10.   For existing CHP plants, compliance with Polish emission standards would
require investments in environmental installations amounting to: (i) about US$500
billion for Category B standard, of which US$180 million (or 36%) for S02
compliance, US$150 million (or 30%) for NOx compliance and US$170 million (or
34%) for particulates compliance; and (ii) about US$1.7 billion for Category C
standard, of which US$1.4 billion (or 82%) for SO2 compliance. Compliance with
the SO2 ambient air standards would require an additional US$180 million
investment over the requirements for Category B compliance, bringing the total
investment cost for environmental compliance to about US$680 million.
Second Sulfur Protocol
11.   The recently signed Second Sulfur Protocol introduces both annual quotas
of SO2 emission quantities for the country and SO2 emission limits for existing
and new power plants. Under this protocol Poland should reduce its SO2 emission
level by 37% in 2000, 47% in 2005 and 66% in 2010 compared to 1990 level.
Compliance with the protocol would cost about US$4.5 billion in desulfurization



Annex 3-4
Page 4 of 5
installations, of which US$3.5 billion is for the system power plants and US$1.0
billion is for the CHP plants.
Retirement Program of Power Plants
12.   By the beginning of 1998, when the new emission standards will become
effective, the average age of 17% of the total installed generating capacity in
the power industry will be 35 years; about 47% will have an average age of 29
years. The study's recommendations include the retirement of about 7,852 MW, of
power generating capacity during 1994-2010, consisting of 4,710 MW. (60%) of
lignite-fired system units, 1,605 MW8 (21%) of coal-fired system units and 1,537
MW8 (19%) of CHP units. About 3,046 MW0 of the total capacity is recommended for
retirement before 2000 and would consist of: (i) 1,840 MW. (60%) of lignite-fired
system units including, inter alia, 6 units (1,200 MW0 total) at the Turow Power
Plant that will be completly rebuilt; (ii) 565 MW8 (19%) coal-fired system units;
and (iii) 641 MW8 (19%) for CHP units.
Investment in New Capacity Plants
13.   Because of the low demand growth and the current excess base-load capacity,
requirements for new plants are going to be mainly dictated by the retirement
program. Retirements are in turn dictated by the age and technical condition of
the existing thermal units, the rehabilitation and environmental requirements,
and  the  availability  of  a  competitive  primary  fuel  mix.    Assuming  the
rehabilitation and retirement program as previously described, the optimization
model shows the following main results: (i) the Polish power system needs peaking
capacity: the first 150 MW gas-fired peaking unit is required as early as 1998;
(ii) without constraint on gas availability, all expansion candidates would use
gas-fired technology consisting of either peaking turbine units or base-load
combined-cycle units; and (iii) there is no robust justification for either the
Mloty pumped storage power plant or the Lower-Vistula hydro-cascade.
Waste Management
14.   The investment upgrade required for environmental compliance raises a major
and growing concern about the recycling and disposal of waste products from power
plants. First, landfill areas are becoming scarce in Poland and the market for
usable waste products (such as gypsum) is still very limited. Second, pollution
controls often change the chemical composition of waste products for landfill,
which makes them not always in compliance with the local environmental
regulations.   Third,  if a market for usable waste products is not created,
investment in waste treatment associated with desulfurization installations is
no longer justified and the untreated waste products must be disposed of, which
is a major problem.
15.   About 13 million tons of waste products (fly ash and bottom ash) from
system power plants alone are produced annually of which 30% is used in the
cement industry. The installation of pollution controls in these plants would



Annex 3-4
Page 5 of 5
increase this amount to about 17 million tons of which 9 million tons could be
used for building materials if the market for such products is developed.
Recommendations for the Next Iteration
16.   The following is a list of the most important issues to address during the
next iteration of the LCIP, which will be undertaken by PPGC's own-newly
established IRP unit:
(a)   An  unambiguous  interpretation  of  the  air  pollution  emission
standards applicable to power plants is required to permit the power
sector to plan its investment and ensure compliance on a least-cost
basis;
(b)   The combined rehabilitation and environmental upgrade for existing
power plants should be compared with an alternative gas option,
assuming initially no constraint on gas supply availability;
(c)   The environmental compliance upgrade for all power plants with
operating hours over 120,000 hours that are not candidates for
rehabilitation must be economically justified;
(d)   CHP  development  should be  refined,  taking  into  account  local
optimization. New coal-fired CHP plant should be compared with gas-
fired combined-cycle, cogeneration alternatives;
(e)   The implementation schedule for the rehabilitation and environmental
upgrade of existing plants should be determined using technical-
economic and site criteria; and
(f)   The retirement program for power units should be revised using time-
series of unit performance criteria such as unit efficiencies,
production costs and load factors during the most recent five years
of operation.   A schedule for the retirement of existing units
should be developed accordingly.
17.   The second iteration of the LCIP will address these issues to permit the
formulation of policy recommendations on the long-term development of the energy
sector, especially with respect to the fuel mix for power generation, the trade-
off between clean coal technologies, environmental upgrade of existing coal-fired
facilities and increased share of gas for power generation.



Annex 4-1
Page 1 of 6
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Project Description
A. The Program
1.    Satisfactory performance of the Polish power system can only be achieved
by ensuring a self-sufficient and reliable system. With respect to the power
transmission network, this involves a comprehensive medium-term program
consisting of urgently needed rehabilitation and reinforcement of existing
facilities (lines and substations), combined with a long-term functional
reconfiguration of the high voltage 400, 220 and 110 kV networks. The proposed
project recognizes the current sub-transmission function of the 110 kV level and
the need to implement immediate rehabilitation investments at this level, in
conjunction with reinforcement at the 400 and 220 kV levels (via 400/110 kV and
220/110 kV transformation).
2.    PPGC's total investment program for the period 1995-2001 will consist of
the following three priority components plus technical assistance:
(a)   the  Ostrow  transmission  development,  which  consists  of  the
reinforcement of the national 400 kV network in the Ostrow area to
facilitate network interties and maintain export and import
capability, to alleviate the expected power deficit of the southern
and western regions and the weakness of the present ties of these
regions to the rest of the Polish power network and to ensure that
(n-l) UCPTE reliability criterion1l are met;
(b)   the substation modernization program, which consists of: (i) the
modernization of twenty two strategic substations in the western and
central-western regions of Poland (including a complete upgrading
and modernization of the major substation Mikulowa) to meet the
design performance levels required for system reliability and
international interconnections; and (ii) distributed shunt reactive
compensation at specific substations, to ensure steady voltage
control and avoid having to switch off 400 kV lines under light load
conditions;
(c)   the 220 kV line modernization program, which consists of urgently
needed rehabilitation and upgrading of eighteen 220 kV lines to
achieve satisfactory overall system performance levels and
interconnect major substations for dispatch purposes; and
1/    The (n-1) criterion is that a power system must be able to maintain its supply and demand balance even in
case of an outage of a major network operating element (the largest generation plant, or one transmission
line, or one transformer, or in some instances one busbar).



Annex 4-1
Page 2 of 6
(d)   technical assistance in selected areas of project and financial
management, integrated resource planning and training, as required.
B. The Project
3.    The proposed project constitutes a major part of PPGC's total investment
program. The Bank loan would finance those components within the substation and
line modernization program for which procurement-related activities can start
immediately or have already been started.  Hence, the Bank would finance the
faster disbursing components plus technical assistance and would exclude the
Ostrow  transmission  development  which  has  a  longer  lead  time  than  the
implementation of the other project components.   The program and the Bank-
financed components are presented in Annex 4-2. Table 2.
Substation Modernization Program
4.    When establishing the development priorities of the program, the following
system risk factors were considered: (i) the risk of catastrophic failure of
equipment and possible consequential damage; (ii) the risk of equipment failing
to perform its assigned function and the impact of this upon network security;
(iii) the risk of widespread network shutdown and associated loss of load; (iv)
the extent to which system performance is impaired and the ability to meet
performance demands of the PPGC and UCPTE networks; (v) the degree of
obsolescence of the equipment, and its performance record; and (vi) the
availability of spare parts or lack thereof. For each substation, these risk
factors were then considered with respect to major substation equipment,
protective relaying and communications, and substation control. A total of 22
substations, including Mikulowa, have been identified as being in need for urgent
upgrading and modernization. Electricite de France (EdF) provided an independent
technical review of the substation modernization program and confirmed the
modernization priorities and the scope of works required. The benefits of such
a program, compared with the existing system performance, are that a greater
power transfer level across existing facilities would be achieved because of the
use of faster fault clearing times. In this manner the load transfer capability
and stability of the network would be enhanced.
5.    Classification of Modernization Requirements.   The extent of the work
required is governed by factors such as performance, age of equipment, and system
stress imposed and may be categorized as follows:
(a)   Category 1:  Equipment needing modernization as dictated by new
design criteria and which demand rapid, secure fault clearing times,
hence higher speed circuit breakers and protective relaying as well
as duplication of equipment to ensure reliable fault detection and
clearance;
(b)   Category 2: Refurbishment of substations as dictated by an increase
in network stresses, e.g., fault levels, which may require changing
of circuit breakers and other primary equipment;



Annex 4-1
Page 3 of 6
(c)   Category 3:  Replacement of primary and secondary equipment as a
result of inadequate performance, high failure rates, lack of
spares, high maintenance costs, vintage of equipment, and design and
performance limitations; and
(d)   Category 4:  Replacement of primary equipment which is likely to
fail and result in significant consequential damages, or present a
safety hazard to operating staff or even the public.
6.    400 kV Substations.  The measures required for the 400 kV substations are
principally of the category 1 type, comprising modernization of the primary and
secondary facilities, although in some instances category 3 refurbishment is
required, i.e., replacement of the airblast circuit breakers, together with old
type current transformers of Russian manufacture. Protective relaying schemes
also require modernization, particularly the provision of busbar zone protection
where category 3 remedial action is required.
7.    220 kV Substations.  The measures to be taken at the 220 kV substations
fall into categories 3 and 4, comprising urgently needed replacement of primary
apparatus, together with modernization of the secondary equipment.
8.    110 kV Substations.   The modernization and refurbishment of the 110 kV
substations is urgently needed, since many are in categories 3 and 4. At bulk
power supply points in the 400 and 220 kV systems, a slowly cleared fault at 110
kV may impair the stability of a significant section of the 400 or 220 kV overlay
networks. It will be essential, therefore, to coordinate the refurbishment of
all stations within a particular supply area on an overall network basis, rather
than upgrade only the 400 and 220 kV system. While a program in this area is
being developed by PPGC for the entire 110 kV network, it is being addressed for
the substations included in this project.
9.    Reactive Compensation.  Five shunt reactors with a total reactive capacity
of 250 MVAr will be installed at specific substations to permit distributed
reactive compensation of the 400 kV network. This would ensure steady voltage
control and avoid having to switch off 400 kV lines under light load conditions.
10.   Telecommunications and Control Systems.   Each substation is currently
manually controlled by on-site operators.   The proposed substation upgrading
program would also involve the installation of a computerized system at most of
the substations for the control of switching apparatus, monitoring of the
equipment and provision of alarm systems, together with an integral fault
monitoring and recording system for the total substation.  This computerized
system will serve as interface with the national and regional dispatching centers
utilizing a modern telecommunications system through a fiber optic ground wire
link, with a power line carrier as a backup communications link.  This will
permit remote control of the substations from the dispatching centers in addition
to local control at the substations.
11.   Environmental  Considerations.    At  each  of  the  stations,  adequate
environmental protection measures will be taken.   Noise suppression will be



Annex 4-1
Page 4 of 6
provided by using screen walls at those locations considered to be noisy.
Provision of transformer oil retention facilities at the site, together with a
fire deluge system to contain transformer fires, would also be provided for under
this program.
Mikulowa 400/220/110 kV Substation
12.   The Mikulowa substation is at a key location not only within the Polish
power grid but also for the interconnections with adjacent countries and hence
the UCPTE network.   It serves to interconnect the German and Polish 400 kV
networks as well as the 220 kV networks in the southwest of Poland, while also
providing the point of connection for the 2000 MWe output from the lignite-fired
Turow plant.   This power plant will be undergoing major modernization and
environmental upgrading, with units 8,9 and 10 being the first ones to be
upgraded. Once these units are refurbished, they will be dedicated to export
power to Germany in order to pay for the plant upgrading.
13.   The planned development at Mikulowa substation demands a high security
station, with rapid clearing of faults at both 400 and 220 kV, together with a
modern telecommunications system to the national and regional dispatching
centers, recognizing the national and international power system requirements.
The modernization program must be implemented without impairing either the sale
of firm export power or security of supply within the Polish power grid.
14.   At the 400 kV Level.   Modernization of this level is required for the
following reasons: (i) to upgrade performance to meet UCPTE criteria; (ii) to
permit power export once the Turow power plant is modernized and retrofitted with
flue gas desulfurization systems; (iii) to facilitate reinforcement of the Polish
power grid in the southwestern area of the country; (iv) to serve as a power
export point at 400 kV to the Czech Republic; and (v) to permit power export for
the next two to three years when the ties to the former East German power system
are interrupted.   The rehabilitation requires a virtual rebuild of the total
substation from the point of view of both primary and secondary equipment.
15.   At the 220 kV Level.   Refurbishment at this level is required for the
following reasons: (i) the performance must be upgraded to meet UCPTE criteria;
(ii) the primary apparatus must be replaced as it poses a risk of failure that
jeopardizes the security of the 220 kV network; (iii) the secondary equipment is
technically obsolete and does not provide the dependability or security of
operation required by the Polish power and UCPTE systems; (iv) the station must
be virtually rebuilt, particularly if it is required to operate as a single unit
rather than as a split busbar station; and (v) it is required to provide secure,
reliable operation, while serving as the focal point for power transmission at
220 kV in both an east-west and north-south direction, and as back up to single
circuit 400 kV lines in this area of the Polish power grid. Twenty five bays of
primary and secondary switchgear equipment must be modernized and upgraded.
16.   At the 110 kV Level.    Modernization at this level is required for the
following reasons: (i) the prevailing fault level is much greater than the rating
of the installed equipment, even though the station is run with split busbar; and



Annex 4-1
Page 5 of 6
(ii) the equipment is very old, and is unlikely to be capable to perform its
assigned rating. Of the three stations at Mikulowa, the 110 kV is of greatest
concern with respect to safety of operation. This substation is to be replaced
in its entirety and increased significantly in size to comprise a station having
22 switchgear bays of which 17 would be required in the initial stage.   The
complete substation, including foundations, will be replaced by constructing a
new substation alongside the existing one and changing over circuit terminations
once bays in the new substations are available.   This will result in split
operation of the 110 kV system during the upgrade period.
17.   Telecommunications and Control Systems.   A completely new computerized
distributed control system will be provided in the substation, with complete
modernization of the telecommunications system to permit remote supervision and
control from the national and regional dispatching centers. Fiber optic ground
wire link will be provided, with an upgrade of the existing power line carrier
link to act as a standby backup communications system.
18.   Technical Issues.  The existing switching schemes will be retained and the
modernization will be carried out in stages.   This will result in temporary
sectionalising of the 400, 220 and 110 kV systems to an even greater extent than
required to allow for dedication of generation to Germany.   There will be a
significant risk of loss of load on the Polish grid during this period
particularly for an (n-l) contingency, recognizing that neither the Ostrow
development nor the Dobrzen-Swiebodzice 400 kV lines will be in service. The
scope of work at this substation, together with the difficult interfaces for
staging construction at the station as well as at the power plant, dictates that
this modernization be considered as a separate sub-component within the
modernization program and that a dedicated project management team be
established. The complete station 400/220/110 kV may be refurbished on a turnkey
basis.  The work will be scheduled to be coordinated with planned outages in
connection with the modernization of the Turow plant.
19.   Alternative Technology Option - Gas Insulated Switchgear.  Extensive civil
and engineering work is required at Mikulowa. Based on the present design and
modernization plans, it is estimated that four and a half years would be required
to complete the total upgrading at Mikulowa.  Using gas insulated switchgear
(GIS) technology for the total substation or for a part of the substation would
permit minimizing the outage requirements and shorten the construction period.
The use of GIS technology would provide an opportunity to purchase 400, 220 and
110 kV switchgear on an individual turnkey basis, with a well defined scope of
work and minimal economic risk, as the complete station can be constructed and
commissioned without the need for significant outages other than those required
for  termination  circuits.    The  overall  construction  schedule  would  be
significantly reduced as construction work can proceed without impediment. While
the capital cost may be higher than the design currently developed, it may well
be an economically more viable solution when compared to the turnkey solution for
the modernization based on the design currently developed. A partial solution
that uses GIS at only one voltage level, e.g. 110 kV, may be also appropriate.
A definitive project schedule will be developed when a specific contract
strategy, defined mostly by the modernization technology considered, has been



Annex 4-1
Page 6 of 6
adopted. Provision was made in the project cost estimates for the possibility
to use GIS technology at Mikulowa, should this option be economically viable.
220 kV Une Modernization Program
20.   PPGC carried out a detailed investigation of the condition of the 220 kV
transmission lines and identified the degree of modernization, upgrading and
refurbishment required in order to restore them to a state that would provide a
further 30-35 years of service. The remedial work may be classified into the
following groups: (i) the transmission line towers, foundations, and insulating
structures are in poor condition so that the security of the line is jeopardized;
(ii) the cross section of the phase conductors is inadequate for the current
rating required by the present power transfer needs of the system, or the
existing conductor has corroded and is in need of replacement; (iii) the existing
ground wires are corroded and unsuitable for further service and in addition, do
not have the capacity to withstand circuit faults; and (iv) the modernization of
the telecommunications system throughout the Polish power network is essential
and can be combined with the replacement of the ground wires through the
installation of a fiber optic ground wire cable.
Bank-Financed Equipment
21.   The Bank-financed equipment items will be procured in accordance with
Bank's procurement procedures. For the substations, and for different voltage
levels (400, 220 and 110 kV), the list of equipment comprises: (i) power
transformers; (ii) switchyard equipment consisting of circuit breakers,
disconnectors and related operating mechanisms, earthing switching systems,
current transformers, voltage transformers, surge arresters, secondary circuits
for bays and transformers, busbar and failure protection systems; (iii) 110 kV
cables; (iv) auxiliary equipment; (v) shunt reactors; and (vi) telecommunication
and telecontrol equipment.   For the lines, the list of equipment consists of
towers, insulators (long rod unit type for the lines to be modernized),
conductors, ground wires, fiber optic ground wires and repeater stations. The
equipment quantities and the procurement arrangements are presented in Annex 4-3.
Technical Assistance
22.   The proposed project would also finance technical assistance and training
for PPGC staff as required.   An amount of about US$3.3 million has been
incorporated into the loan amount for this purpose. Training needs are expected
to be more pronounced in the management and commercial areas (corporate financial
planning and management, budgeting, accounting, project economics, contracting
and international trade, marketing and consumer services, and human resource
management) than in the strictly technical area. However, a certain amount of
training for the technical staff will de facto be provided by the suppliers of
equipment and goods to be procured under the project. The technical assistance
program is entirely flexible, to permit reorientation towards high priority areas
that may emerge during project implementation.



Annex 4-2
Page 1 of 2
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Project Costs - Total
(US$ million)
Item                                        PROJECT BASE COSTS
No   PROJECT COMPONENTS                  LOCAL I FOREIGN  TOTAL
STATIONS
1. Technical design documents              7.11               7.11
2. Civil engineering works                 1.18                1.18
3. Buildings with installations            2.76                2.76
4. 400 kV switchyard                       3.03      6.98     10.01
5. 220 kV switchyard                      20.99     33.62     54.61
6. 110 kV switchyard                       6.50     12.35     18.85
7. 400 kV transformers                     3.02      3.30      6.32
8. 220 kV transformers                     2.11      3.21      5.32
9. 110 kV transformers                     0.56      1.64      2.20
10. 110 kV cables                           0.02      0.52     0.54
11. Shunt Reactors                          1.00      3.50      4.50
12. Substation earthing                     0.61               0.61
13. Auxiliary equipment                     0.51      1.42      1.93
14. Telecommunication equipment             0.43      3.14     3.57
15. Telemechanics                           0.54      4.52     5.06
16. Clearance works on substation area      0.36               0.36
17. Commissioning, final projects           1.17                1.17
SUB-TOTAL - STATIONS                   51.90     74.20    126.10
LINES
1. Documentation                           0.90               0.90
2. Dismantling                             1.13                1.13
3. Ground preparation
4. Route reconstruction
5. Foundations and grounding               0.06                0.06
6. Towers                                  0.97      0.02      0.99
7. Insulators                              0.30      4.66      4.96
8. Conductors                              2.04      0.94      2.98
9. Groundwires                             0.70      0.48      1.18
10. Fiber optic groundwires                 3.92     21.55    25.47
11. Repeater stations                                 0.61     0.61
12. Temporary objects
13. Additional costs                        3.13               3.13
14. Test and commissioning                  0.04               0.04
SUB-TOTAL - LINES                      13.19     28.26    41.45
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
1. STATIONS AND LINES COSTS               65.09    102.46    167.55
2. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                    0.84      2.52      3.36
3. PROJECT BASE COSTS                     65.93    104.98    170.91
4. CONTINGENCIES
- Physical Contingencies                6.51     20.42    26.93
- Price Contingencies                   6.21     10.61     16.82
Subtotal - Contingencies              12.72     31.03    43.75
5. CUSTOMS DUTIES AND IMPORT TAXES    29.28                   29.28
6. TOTAL PROJECT COSTS (excl. IDC)       107.93    136.01    243.94
7. Interests During Construction (IDC)              31.75     31.75
8. TOTAL PROJECT COSTS (incl. IDC)       107.93    167.76    275.69



Annex 4-2
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT                                        Page 2 of 2
Program Costs - Bank Financed Components
(USS million)
PROGRAM COSTS                     BANK FINANCED COMPONENTS
PROGRAM CO1PONTS                    -E i           Por*lgn       Total         Local       Freriii        TOW
A. Sytem Expansion - Otrow Proiect
A. 1 Subtations
(a)  Ostrow                               8.21          8.07        18.28
(b)  Pasikurowice                         6.59          7.95        14.54
(c)  Plewiska                             7.71         12.18        19.89
Subtotal - Stations                 22.51        28.20        50.71
A.2 Lines
(a)  Ostrow - Broczecin                  21.38         18.91        40.29
(b)  Ostrow - Plewiska                   34.09         18.88        52.97
(c)  Ostrow - Pasikurowice                2.94          2.00         4.94
Subtotal- Lines                     58.41        39.79        98.20
Subtotal - Expansion                          80.92        67.99       148.91
B. Rehabilitation and Modernization
B.1  Susbtations
1. Adamow                                4.74         6.35         11.09          4.74         6.35         11.09
2. Blachownia                            2.83          4.97         7.80
3. Bujakov                               0.51          2.03         2.54
4. Bydgoszcz                             1.44          2.30         3.74
5. Cieplice                              1.46         3.19          4.65
6. Gorzow                                3.36          8.09         9.45          3.36         6.09          9.45
7. Jasiniec                              4.62          5.13         9.75
8. Jaworzno II                           5.55          6.34        11.89          5.56         6.34         11.89
9. Joachimow                             4.00          6.26        10.26          4.00         6.26         10.26
10. Katowice                              1.07         3.09          4.16
11. Konin                                 8.50         10.38        16.88
12. Kopanina                              1.34         3.69          5.03          1.34         3.89         5.03
13. Krajnik                               4.06         8.98         13.04
14. Lesniow                               2.02         2.75          4.77
15. Lagisza                               3.42         5.25          8.67          3.42         5.25         8.67
16. Mikulowa                             17.47        19.87         37.34         17.47        19.87        37.34
17. Podolazyce                            2.98         5.13         8.11
18. Polkowice                             2.66         5.38          8.04          2.66         5.38         8.04
19. Rogowiec                              1.80         5.43          7.23
20. Siersza                               5.34          4.64         9.98          5.34         4.84         9.98
21. Swiebodzice                           4.73         8.11         10.84
22. Wielopole                             3.02          6.83         9.85          3.02         6.83          9.85
23. Shunt Reactors                        1.00          3.50         4.50          1.00         3.50          4.50
Subtotal - Stations                 85.92       133.69       219.61         51.90         74.20       128.10
B.2 Lines
1. Plewiska - Czerwonak                  0.77         1.17          1.94
2. Plewiska - Konin                      4.04          5.79         9.83
3. Konin - Patnow                        0.12         0.17          0.29
4. Patnow - Wloclawek                    0.85          1.72         2.37
5. Patnow - Jasiniec (I)                 4.13         2.84          6.97          4.13         2.84         6.97
6. Patnow - Jasiniec (I1)                8.24         6.40         14.64
7. Mory - Janow                          3.98          5.35         9.33
8. Mory-Piaseczno-Kozienice              1.31          4.25         5.56
9. Rozki - Kielce                        1.41         3.27          4.68
10. Wrzosowa - Joachimow                  0.20         0.49          0.69
11. Lagieza - Wrzosowa                    1.98         3.21         5.19
12. Byczyna - Bierun                      0.31         0.66         0.97
13. Abramowice-StalowaWola                1.50         2.64          4.14          1.50         2.64         4.14
14. Abramowice-Mokre                      0.86         2.36          3.22          0.86         2.36         3.22
15. Mokre-Zamosc l                        0.18         0.46          0.84          0.18         0.46         0.64
16. MikulIowa - Lesniow                   2.85         4.04          6.89          2.85         4.04         6.89
17. Mikulowa-4&5 PSB                      0.38         0.46         0.84           0.38         0.46         0.84
18. Mikulowa - 10 PSB                     0.29         0.48          0.75          0.29         0.46         0.75
19. Fiber optic cables                    3.00        15.00         18.00          3.00        15.00        18.00
Subtotal- Unes                      38.20        60.74        9694          1319          28.26        41.45
Subtotal - Rehabilitation                    122.12       194.43       316.56         65.09        102.46       167.55
C. Stations and Unes Costs                      203.04       262.42        416.46         6509        102.46       167.55
D. Technical Asstwice                             2.33         8.98          9.31          0.84         2.52         3.38
E. Program Base Costs                           205.37       26e.40       474.77          65.93       104.96       170.91
F. Contingencies                                 37.18        81.68        98.86          12.72        31.03        43.75
G. Custom Duties & Import Taxes                  70.90                      70.90         29.28                     29.28
H. Total Program Costs (excl. IDC)              313.45       331.08        644.53        107.93       138.01       243.94
1. IDC (excl. commitment fee)                                 77.14        77.14                      31.75        31.75
J. Total Program Cost (lncl. lDC)               313.45       408.22       721.87         107.93       167.78       275.89



Annex 4-3
Page 1 of 3
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Procurement Schedule - Substations
(Cost Estimates (in US$ million) and Procurement Methods)
Procurement                                                            1996197198                     199912000                  TOTAL PROJECT
Package   Description of Procurement               Units    Item      Cost per    Totsl     Item     Cost per    Totl     Item     Cost per    Total
Reference No             Contract Packages                   Quantities  Contract  Package  Quantities  Contract  Packge  Quantitics  Conract  Package
400 kV power transformer     330 MVA  pieces
400 kV power transformer     500 MVA  pieces           1      4.08                                                  1       4.08
I      220 kV power transformer      160 MVA  pieces          3       3.98   10.10                                          3      3.98   10.10
220 kV power transformer     60 MVA   pieces                         (ICB)
110 kV power transformer     120 MVA  pieces          2       2.04                                                  2      2.04
110 kV power transformer     70 MVA   pieces
400 kV circuit breaker                  sets           8      1 .55                                                 8       1.55
it      220 kV circuit breaker                  sets         56       6.85   10.49          36       4.42    7.02          92      11.27   17.51
110 kV circuit breaker                  sets         41       209   (lcB)           51       2.60   (ICB)          92       4.69
400 kV disconnector                     sets         38       1 74                                                 38       1.74
Only operating mechanism for
400 kV disconnector                    sets
220 kV disconnector                     sets         146      2.45                  40       0.88                 186       3.13
IlIl    Only operating mechanism for
220 kV disconnector                    sets          83      0 26                  68       0 20                 151       0.46
110 kV disconnector                     sets         44       0.42    5.05         129       1.25    2.36         173       1.67    7.41
Only operating mechanism lor                   _                     (ICB)                          (ICB)
1 10 kV disconnector                   sets                                        13       0.01                  13      0.01
400 kV earthing switching               sets
220 kV earthing switching               sets          21      0.16                  22       0.17                  43       0.33
1 10 kV earthing switching              sets          11_     0.02                  27       0.05                  38      0.07
400 kV current transformer             pieces         27      0.55                                                 27       0.55
IV      220 kV current transtormer              pieces       132       2.02    2.81         69       1.06    1.48         201       3.08    4.29
1 10 kV current transformer            pieces        51       0.24   (lBC)          90       0.42   (ICB)         141      0.66
400 kV voltage transformer             pieces         27      0.25                                                 27       0.25
V       220 kV voltage transformer             pieces        141       1.00    1.39         45       0.32    0.55         186       1.32    1.94
________  110 kV voltage transformer             pieces         36      0.14  (ICB)           57       0.23   (108)          93       0.37
Surge arrester for 400 kV system       pieces
VI      Surge arrester for 220 kV system        pieces       108       1.04    1.21         78       0.75    1.08         186       1.79    2.29
Surge arrester for 110 kV system       pieces        75       0.17   (ICB)         147       0.33  (QCB)          222      0.50
VIl     110 kV Cables                            km          1.75      0.29    0.29        2.22       0.36    0.36        3.97      0.65    0.65
_______________   (IS)                    (IcB)              _
Secondary circuits for 400 kV bay       sets           8      1.62                   6       1.21                  14       2.83
Secondary circuits for 220 kV bay       sets         49       9.80                  32       6.40                  81      16.20
Secondary circuits for 400 kV transformer  sets        4      0.89                   1       0.22                   5       1.11
VilI     Secondary circuits for 220 kV transformer  sets        8      115                    8       1.16                  16       2.31
400 kV busbar protection                sets           1      0.20   14.67                          10.42           1       0.20   25.09
220 kV busbar protection                sets           2      0.41   (ICB)           4       0.82   (lCB)           6       1.23
400 kV failure protection               sets           2      0 24                   1       0.12                   3      0.36
220 kV failure protection               sets           3      0.36                   4       0.49                   7       0.85
Secondary circuits for 110 kV bay       sets          14      1.19                  63       5.34                  77      6.53
IX      Secondary circuits for 110 kV transformer  sets        2       0 16    1.35           1      0.08    5.93           3       0.24    7.28
110 kV busbar protection                sets                        O(CB)            4       0.41   (ICB)           4      0.41
110 kV failure protection               sets                                         2       0.10                   2      0.10
X       Auxiliary switchgear                    sets                  0885                           0.88                  10       1.76      76
(ICB)                         (ICB)
Telecommunication devices               sets                   1.94    4.1                   1.94                  10       3.88     .48
Telemechanics                           sets           4      2 24   (CB)            6       3.38   (ICB)          10       5.60
Shunt Reactors (50 MVAr)                sets           5      4.35    45                                                    435 :TW
(ICB)
ICB Procured Goods                                     _____                                _0 2  __                               91_____
IS Procured Goods                                                                                          I - - -_-_______   --DT2g-
TOTAL                                                      56.77             _____        35.02                         91.79
Notes:   (a) Procurement methods are shown in parenthesis
(b) Costs of procurement packages include physical and price contingencies.
(c) Some of the packages consist of several individual contract-packages. Each bid will be evaluated on a package-by-package basis
and contract will be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder for each individual package separately.



Annex 4-3
Page 2 of 3
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Procurement Schedule - Lines
(Cost Estimates (in USS million) and Procurement Methods)
Procurement                                             1996             1997          TOTAL PROJECT
Pagc   Description of Procurenxt            Unit    item   Coi per st            peC   t  -r  CO1 pe
Refence No.         CoDtrct Packagea                 Quantities Pack    Quant   Pckae  Quantits   Package
I     Towers                             Mg          21    0.03                        21       0.03
II    Insulators                          Mg        579    2.56      579    2.57    1,158        5.13
________    _____________________ _          _____            (US)           I   (US) 8
Ill    Conductors                         km        113    O.S1       113    0.51      225       1.02
(lCB)          I (C)I
IV     Groundwires                        km        230    0.27       230    0.27      459       0.54
V      Fiber optic groundwires & systems  km        771   14.74      571   11.03    1,341       25.77
________                                                  (!GB) __  __ GPCO)
VI     Repeater stations                 pieces       3    0.67                          3       0.67
___     I_   (108                                                                  _
OB PrUored Goods                        _ _    15.S2         :      11.54              27.46
UBL PRocured Goods                       _       :Z56 ____            2.57               5.13
Is PTUds 00                      __. _0____          0.30 ______    0.27                  0.57
TOTAL       ;       -                       18.78  ___ _    14.38  _:           33.16
Notes: (a) Procurement methods are shown in parenthesis
ICB: International Competitive Bidding; LIB: Limited International Shopping; IS: International Shopping
(b) Costs of procurement packages Include physical and price contingencies.
Procurement Schedule - Technical Assistance
(USS million)
As~~tce                                       Cost per CoeractCo
Comma   D--#dm of                         proourmat        1995    19:7      TOTAL
R:k:iee No.         Apalsham Contrt                 Mehds   to 1996  to 2000:
Consultants' Services for:
I-a    - Project Management             )      Short         1.0      0.2      1.2
I-b    - Telecommunications System Interfa )                 0.2              0.2
I-c    - 110 kV Rehabilitation Master Plan   )  List         0.2              0.2
I-d    - Integrated Resource Planning   )                    0.2              0.2
I-e     - Environmental Dispatching     )                    0.2              0.2
II     Other Consultants'Services       Direct Contracting  0.2      0.1      0.3
III    Training                             Short List       0.3      0.2     0.5
IV     Computer SoftwarelHardware       Direct Contracting   0.5              0.5
Short Lim                                            2 1      0.4      2.5
OfrQht Contracting:     ::     : :        :    :   00Z t:if:0:0 0      :,
::0TOlAL                                      2. :  : 8a: ::0|::::cW  3.3



ir g.                                                           tr                                                             '  . Xi
0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t
.. ...... .                                 ....... .......  .................. ......  ......    ......                                                                                                                 .   ... .. 
.]~     ~           ~       ~ ......    . ..                         .   ....                       .....                ....                        ......              .....
C~~~~~- --Ix
.......    -----      .....              ........                           ......                                           ......    ......
000000000000                                                                                   000000000000                                                                                                                                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~.......... 
............................ ...................    ........  U                                          -                                                                                                                                                             Z 
U~~~
....         .I     ...........                        ........                                      ..............................                                                                            ...          . min n I ........       ......
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....                                                                      ...... -                   .........                         ...          ..........                             .....               ......                  ...............                                     .       ...
.......................                                    ...         ................    ..............                                                         ....................
--L-J~-~                                                                                                                                                                                                                              --   
..........  ....................      ..............                              ..............    ..........   ...    ........
..................................  ............    ............                        ...................... ...............
C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9                                                         I~~~~~~~~~ .....  .................... . ............  ........I....................
........... 1 7  ....                                                 .....................       .........                                                                 .  .....n
E ;o rL arDLOCI~~~~~o 
C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0---v 



Annex 4-4
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Disbursements Schedule
(US$ million)
IBRO       SEMESTER           WITHDRAWALS              DIBURSEMENT
Fiscal       ENDING                                       PROFILE
Year            :           AMOUNT  CUMULATIVE
1996      June 30, 1996          9.60          9.60           6.0% /a /b
1997    December31, 1996        6.40          16.00          10.0%
June 30, 1997        12.80         28.80          18.0%
1998    December 31,1997        19.20         48.00          30.0%
June 30, 1998        19.20         67.20          42.0%
1999    December 31,1998       12.80          80.00          50.0%
June 30, 1999        19.20         99.20          62.0%
2000    December 31, 1999       32.00        131.20          82.0%
June 30, 2000       19.20        150.40          94.0%
2001    December 31, 2000        6.40        156.80          98.0%
June 30, 2001         3.20        160.00         100.0%
/a Includes retroactive financing
lb Starting FY97, disbursement profile follows Bank's standard disbursement profile for
the energy sector in Europe and Central Asia Region, issued on June 1994.



Annex 4-5
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
OSRCW DEVELOPMIENT                                                        I_________
Plev~iska (400/220/1 10 kV) 
Paskujrow,ce (400/1 10 kVE)
LINES 400 kVI
Ostrow-Broszeczin
Ostrow-Pasikurowice
Ostrow-Plew,ska
SUBSTATION MODERNiZATION___
Adamo. /220/1 10 IV)
Blachownia /220/1 10 kV)
Bujakov /220/11 10 (v)
Bydgoszcz /220/1110 kVE)
Cieplice (220/1 10 lIV)                                                                         I
Gorzor, /220/11 10 kV)
Jasiniec /220/1110 kV) ___
Jaworzno 11 (220/110 RE)
Joacoimow (400/220 kVE)
Katowce /220/1 10 kVE)
Kon,n /220/1110 kV)
Kopan na (220/11 0 kV) u
Kra1rkl /400/220/110 RE                                                                                              i r
Lesrrow (220/1 10 kVE)
Lagrsza /220/1110 kV)
Mikulowa /400/220/1 10 kVE)                        I
Podolozyce /220/1 1 01() -
Polkowice /220/110 k(V)                                                                             im
Rogow,ec (400/220 kVE)     
Siersza /220/1 10 V)    _                        m-
Swiebodzice /220/11 0 kVE)m
Wielopole /400/220/1 10 lIE)
Shunt Reactors /50 MVAr)
220 kV LiNE MODERNIZATION       ~     ~     Z     Z :_____                      ______    ______    ______
Piewiska-Czerwonak
Plewiska-Koon n
Palnow-Konmn
PatnowyWloclawvek                                      m          m~
Patnow-JaslnfecI
Patnow-jasin,ec II
M~P,as9czno-Koziehtce
RozkI,-K(elce
Wrzosowa -Joach,rmaw
Byczy,a-Bwerun
Abramowlceo-Stalowa Wola-
Ablramowire-Mokre                                                  iiiiiiii
Mokre-Zlmow II
Mikulowa-Lesniow
Mikulowa-PSB 4&5 Line
Mikulowa -P5B 10 Line
FIber                                                          ____________________-_-  -     -    - -    ---------__ __ __ _
Note.     This schedUle Shows the construction for each project component. Constructlon schedule Include civil works, equlpment instatiatlon.
testing an'd commIssionIng, but eXclude englneertrng design and procurement.



Annex 4-6
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Supervision Action Plan
FISCAL YEAR               ~~~STAFFING                    S TAFF WEEKS
1996             -Task Manager                                      8
-Energy Planner                                    8
Financial Analyst                                6
- Transmission Engineer                           28
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   2 8
1997             - Task Manager                                     8
- Energy Planner                                   8
- Financial Analyst                                6
- Transmission Engineer                            6
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _2 8
1998             - Task Manager                                     7
- Energy Planner                                   5
- Financial Analyst                                4
- Transmission Engineer
20
1999             - Task Manager                                     6
- Energy Planner                                   5
- Financial Analyst                                3
- Transmission Engineer                            4
18
2000             - Task Manager                                     5
- Energy Planner                                   5
- Financial Analyst                                3
- Transmission Engineer                            3
18
2001             - Task Manager                                     4
- Energy Planner                                   4
- Financial Analyst                                3
- Transmission Engineer 
14
1996-2001            TOTAL                                            124



POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
PPGC - Income statements (US$ million)
Forecast __________
l 1996  L  1997  |  1998  |  1999  | 2000  | 2001
REVENUES
Domestic Market Sales        2413.9   2977.6   2925.4   3073.8   3229.8   3393.6   3565.8   3746.6   3936.7
Export Sales                   83.2     87.7      70.7     74.3     78.0      82.0     86.1     90.5      95.1
Transmission Charges            0.0    105.1    146.3    153.7    161.5    169.7    178.3    187.3    196.8
Other                           3.3      0.1      24.6     25.8     27.1      28.5     30.0      31.5     33.1
Total             2500.4   3170.4   3167.0   3327.6   3496.4   3673.8   3860.1   4056.0   4261.7
EXPENSES
Power Purchase               2398.1   3025.9   3022.5   3175.8   3336.9   3506.2   3681.3   3865.6   4059.6
Materials & Fuels               1.0      2.9       2.6      2.8      3.0       3.2      3.4       3.6      3.5
Repair & Maintenance            7.9     30.9      16.6     19.0     22.4      25.1     27.5      29.4     31.0
Wages                           7.1     12.8      13.7     14.6     15.5      16.6     17.6      18.8     20.1
Telecoms & Transportation       1.5      1.8       1.9      1.9      2.0       2.1      2.2       2.3      2.4
Insurance                       0.8      0.6       9.9     11.3     12.7      13.0     13.6      13.8     14.2
Services                        0.8      4.5       1.9      4.7      6.9       5.5      5.3       4.0      3.6
Other                           5.3     10.8      12.7     13.3     14.0      14.7     15.5      16.2     17.1
Depreciation Expenses          13.4     43.3      73.6     75.8     71.1      71.2     73.0      79.2     85.4
Total             2435.9   3133.6   3155.3   3319.2   3484.6   3657.7   3839.6   4032.9   4236.8
Operating Income             64.54    36.78    11.67      8.44    11.80    16.11    20.51    23.02    24.94
Other Income (Losses)        (10.58)   (5.98)    0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
Financial expenses            11.52    17.31    10.26     7.83    10.84    14.64    19.03    22.15    23.81
Net Inconoe Before Taxes     42.43    13.50      1.42     0.61      0.96     1.47      1.48     0.87     1.13
Taxes                         17.94    10.71     0.57     0.24      0.38     0.59      0.59     0.35     0.45      m x
Profit                       24.49      2.79     0.85     0.36      0.58     0.88     0.89      0.52     0.68      0
Operating Ratio               0.37      0.65     0.93     0.95      0.94     0.92      0.90     0.89     0.89



POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
PPGC - Fund flow statements IUS$ million)
Actual                                        Forecast
1993     1994     1995      1996     1997     1998      1999     2000     2001
SOURCES
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income              64.54    36.78    11.67      8.44    11.80    16.11    20.51     23.02    24.94
Extraordinary Income (losses)  (10.58)    (5.98)    0.00   0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
Depreciation                  13.44    43.29    73.63    75.82    71.15    71.19    73.01      79.17    85.44
Total                         67.39    74.09    85.31     84.26    82.95    87.30    93.53   102.19   110.38
Borrowings
IBRD                          0.00      0.00     0.00    15.53    41.75    37.38    38.23    18.64        8.47
Other                         21.79    18.40    56.60    59.47    67.55    95.02    52.77    31.86    31.53
Total                         21.79    18.40    56.60    75.00   109.30   132.40    91.00    50.50    40.00
Total Sources         89.18    92.49   141.91    159.26   192.25   219.70    184.53   152.69   150.38
APPLICATIONS
Investrnents
The Project                    0.00     0.00    10.15    30.40    63.71    60.40    66.52    32.27    12.23
Other Projects                51.34    78.53    35.38    93.41    116.41    79.02    63.14    60.39    68.24
Maintenance as Investment      0.00     0.00    10.00      9.90     9.60     9.31      9.04     8.76      8.50
Total Investrnents            51.34    78.53    55.53   133.71    189.72   148.73   138.70   101.42    88.97
Debt Service
Principal                     10.77    10.93    18.32    18.32    18.14    23.14    18.82    24.09    28.17
Guarantee & Commitment Fees    0.00     0.00     6.00      0.38     0.31     0.22      0.14     0.08      0.05
Interest                      11.52    17.31     4.26      7.45    10.53    14.42    18.89    22.07    23.76
Total Debt Service            22.29    28.24    28.58    26.15    28.98    37.78    37,86    46.24    51.97
Taxes                         17.94    10.71     0.57      0.24     0.38     0.59      0.59     0.35      0.45
Change in Cash at Banks       (6.74)    13.15    88.59    (5.56)    0.40    41.74     (1.22)    5.59     6.34      r) x
Changes in Working Capital     4.36    (38.14)   (31.37)    4.71    (27.24)    (9.14)  8.60    (0.91)     2.64     o L
TOTAL APPLICATIONS       89.18    92.49   141.91    159.26   192.25   219.70    184.53   152.69   150.38 1
Debt service cover. ratio       2.2      2.2       3.0      3.2       2.8      2.3      2.5       2.2      2.1
Internal cash goner. ratio     35%     119%       98%      42%      51 %      37%      36%      52%       58%



POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
PPGC - Balance sheets (US$ million)
Actual                __         _ _         Forecast
1993     1994     1995  | 1996       1997     1998     1999     2000      2001
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets          330.42   340.88  1,863.85  1,984.13  2,153.02  2,307.80  2,451.33  2,565.38  2,661.88
Less Accumulated Depreciation  0.00   (43.29)  (299.03)  (374.85)  (446.00)  (517.19)  (590.20)  (669.38)  (754.82)
Net Fixed Assets            330.42   297.59  1,564.81  1,609.28  1,707.02  1,790.61  1,861.12  1,896.00  1,907.05
Work In Progress             51.78    71.54    38.12    51.55    72.38    66.34    61.51    48.88    41.36
Total                       382.20   369.14  1,602.94  1,660.83  1,779.40  1,856.95  1,922.63  1,944.88  1,948.41
Current Assets
Cash at Banks                 9.65    29.08   117.67   112.11    112.51    154.25   153.03   158.62   164.96
Accounts Receivable         246.35   315.62   268.98   264.39   229.90   221.43   232.67   233.36   245.19
Inventories                   0.63     0.49      3.64     3.84     4.18      4.49     4.78     5.00     5.15
Other                         0.66    28.37    27.88    29.29    30.78    32.34    33.98    35.71    37.52
Total Current Assets        257.29   373.56   418.17   409.64   377.37   412.51    424.46   432.68   452.82
Total Assets        639.49   742.70  2,021.11  2,070.46  2,156.77  2,269.46  2,347.09  2,377.56  2,401.23
LIABILITIES & EQUITY          -                                              ______I
Long-Term Loans               0.00    18.40    56.67   113.35   204.51    313.76   385.94   412.35   424.18
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable            192.94   207.03   194.14   194.60   197.98   204.43   210.93   217.46   228.32
Other                        31.43   174.11    163.73   155.94   150.74   148.14   145.54   142.94   142.94
Short-Term Loans             21.79     0.00    10.64    10.29      6.69      5.38     6.05     5.66     5.95
Total                       246.16   381.14   368.51   360.83   355.41    357.95   362.52   366.06   377.22
Equity
Owner's Capital             362.65   334.65   334.65   334.65   334.65   334.65   334.65   334.65   334.65
Revaluation Reserve           0.00     0.00  1,251.90  1,251.90  1,251.90  1,251.90  1,251.90  1,251.90  1,251.90  Pa
Reserves                      8.51     5.73      5.73     5.73     5.73      5.73     5.73     5.73     5.73      m m
Retained Earnings            22.18     2.79      3.64     4.00     4.58     5.46      6.35     6.87     7.55      w x
Total                       393.33   343.16  1,595.92  1,596.28  1,596.86  1,597.74  1,598.63  1,599.15  1,599.83  o
Total Uabilities & Equity  639.49   742.70  2,021.11  2,070.46  2,156.77  2,269.46  2,347.09  2,377.56  2,401.23
Current Ratio                   1.0      1.0      1.1      1.1       1.1      1.2      1.2       1.2      1.2
Debt / Debt & Equity ratio      0%       5%       3%       7%       11 %     16%      19%      20%       21%



Annex 6-1
Page 1 of 3
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.    The focus of the economic analysis is on the entire investment program of
PPGC, of which the proposed project is an integral part. This is mainly because
the benefits associated with the investment components under the project cannot
be quantitatively measured in isolation from other components of the program,
unless arbitrary assumptions on allocating the benefits to each component are
made. The internal economic rate of return (ERR) is, therefore, calculated on
the basis of the incremental benefit and cost streams connected with the 1995-
2001 time-slice of the total investment program. The Bank project covers the
highest priority components in this program and is crucial for the undertaking
of the remaining part of the program.
Economic Benefits
2.    Qualitative Analysis.  The economic benefits associated with the entire
investment program can be summarized, inter alia, in the following qualitative
terms:
a.    Enhanced reliability of the transmission system: the reinforcement
and rehabilitation of existing transmission lines and substations,
especially at the 220 kV and 110 kV level, and functional
reconfiguration of all high voltage lines and substations included
in the program will improve the reliability of the transmission
system and reduce network outages and the cost to the Polish economy
of energy not served.   The reliability of electricity supply is
vital for electricity-dependent industries (such as high technology
and chemical industries). Unless the reliability is up to a basic
standard these industries will have to invest in expensive standby
power  generation  facilities  to  guarantee   their  continuous
production.     Additionally,  compared  to  neighboring/competing
countries, a more reliable electricity supply is also a factor that
could induce foreign investment in industries in Poland;
b.    Reduced transmission losses and operation and maintenance costs:
compared to modern Western transmission systems, the Polish system
experiences much higher transmission losses and operation and
maintenance costs. Its obsolete equipment is very inefficient and
frequent maintenance is needed to keep it performing at an
acceptable level.   The proposed investment program will greatly
increase the efficiency of the overall network performance through
replacement, upgrading and rehabilitation of power transmission
equipment, improved power system dispatch and better maintenance
scheduling;
c.    Deferred and reduced investments in transmission and generation
capacity and reserve margins due to increased capacity of
rehabilitated system components: the implementation of the proposed
investment program will increase the transfer capacity of the



Annex 6-1
Page 2 of 3
transmission network and thus reduce or defer transmission
investments.   The investment program can also reduce or defer
investment in generation capacity through a reduced need for
spinning reserve and standby capacity. This would result from the
installation of modern telecommunication and control equipment and
reduced peaking capacity and reserve margins through proposed
interconnection with UCPTE;
d.    Increased income from Dower wheeling and exports:   the proposed
interconnections with UCPTE and neighboring countries provide the
necessary basis for Poland to be actively involved in electricity
trade in Europe, thus generating more income for the economy. The
upgrade to UCPTE standards under the program would permit to
maintain the power exports to Germany; and
e.    Reduced environmental pollution: investments in transmission network
optimization will make it possible to supply power from the most
efficient coal-fired generation units rather than the less efficient
ones.    This  improved  dispatching  will  decrease  overall  coal
combustion while generating the same amount of electricity, and thus
reduce air pollution. The proposed investments would also permit
the modernization and environmental upgrade of highly polluting
power plants without interruption of power supply. The introduction
of environmental dispatching, which can be achieved by the
installation of telecommunication and control equipment as proposed
in the program, would further reduce environmental pollution.
3.    Quantitative Analysis.  For the purpose of the ERR calculation, PPGC's
incremental transmission revenue is used as a proxy for the quantifiable economic
benefits of its investment program and operations.   It is an estimate of the
consumer's willingness to pay.  Transmission revenue is regarded only as the
minimum measure of the actual benefits, since this revenue reflects only a
portion of the total benefits of PPGC's investment program. In particular, this
revenue-based measurement does not capture the incremental consumer surplus. The
ERR calculation, including cost and benefit streams and assumptions, is shown in
Table 6.1. An explanation of the ERR calculation with reference to the benefit
items listed in Table 6.1 is provided in paras. 4-5.
4.    Incremental transmission revenues were based on the difference between
revenues with and without the program. With the program, PPGC would be able to
ensure firm power contracts for exports to Austria and Czech Republic (item 5.1
of Table 6.1) and domestic sales (items 5.2 and 5.3 of Table 6.1) and maintain
power exports to Germany (item 9 of Table 6.1). Without the program, a portion
of PPGC's domestic sales and export contracts would be supplied on an
interruptible basis and at lower contract price, and the entire exports to
Germany would cease, resulting in lost revenues for the company. Interruptible
contracts valued at about 50% of prices for firm contracts would affect about 30%
of 1995 domestic sales, the entire incremental domestic sales (in excess of the
base year 1995 demand) and the entire exports to Austria and Czech Republic.
Incremental revenues from domestic sales and exports were valued using a
transmission revenue of about US$14/MWh and a net export revenue of about
US$84/MWh.



Annex 6-1
Page 3 of 3
5.    Other quantifiable benefits made possible by implementing the program
comprise: (i) reduction in ordered capacity for spinning reserves and standby
capacity by about 2% of annual peak demand per year (or 540 MW./year) valued at
marginal cost of generation capacity of US$53/kW-year (item 6 of Table 6.1); (ii)
reduction in incremental operating and maintenance (O&M) costs estimated as 2%
of the value of the existing assets annually (item 8 of Table 6.1); and (iii)
savings equivalent to about US$ 14 million per year due to transmission system
reinforcement and covering reduced unsupplied demand (during the winter period
mainly), a better use of merit-order dispatch resulting in lower generation
costs, and reduced transmission losses (item 7 of Table 6.1).   Savings from
system reinforcement were estimated from the results of the load flow analysis
and the probabilistic simulation of supply reliability with and without the
reinforcement.
Economic Costs
6.    The costs associated with PPGC's investment program and used for the ERR
calculation comprise: (i) the total costs of the investment program over the
period 1995-2001, excluding price contingencies, custom duties and taxes, and
interests during construction (item 2 of Table 6.1); and (ii) the corresponding
annual incremental O&M costs, estimated as 2% of the cumulative capital
investment costs (item 3 of Table 6.1). Other costs such as incremental overhead
costs for implementing the program were assumed to be offset by the reduction in
manpower requirements at substation level resulting from the improved
telecommunication and telecontrol of substations. Estimates of the local and
foreign costs are in March 1994 prices. Local costs are either directly costed
in international prices or are converted to US dollars using the average 1994
exchange rate.
Economic Rate of Return
7.    The program yields an economic rate of return of 21%.  The ERR reflects the
implementation of the program during 1995-2001. Benefits from exports to Germany
are achieved only upon implementing the entire program and remain constant
thereafter for 15 years (the assumed economic useful life of the investment).
Other program benefits and incremental costs build up in proportion to the
progress of program implementation, from 8% in 1995 to the full value in 2001,
and remain constant thereafter for 15 years (item 1 of Table 6.1). Transmission
revenue and net export revenue in 1995 were kept constant in real terms.
Sensitivity Analysis
8.    The internal economic rate of return, based on the benefit and cost streams
discussed above,  is estimated at 21%, which is above the 12% discount rate
generally applied to Poland. A sensitivity analysis was carried out to test the
robustness of the ERR. The ERR would go down to 12% if investment costs were to
increase by 50%, or if all quantifiable benefits were to decrease by 40%.  A
combination of 20% higher investments costs and 25% lower benefits would decrease
the ERR to 12%. The ERR is also affected, to a lesser degree, by changes in the
price for interruptible contracts: if this price increases from 50% to 90% of the
price for firm contracts, the ERR would go down to 12%.



Annex 6-1
Table 6.1
POLAND - POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return Calculation
19951   1996       1997      4998      1999       2000     200t   to 2017
1.  Program Implementation                             8%      28%      55%S       75 __ 92__          99S_ _   100
PROGRAM COSTS
2.  Investment Costs ($ mil.)            /a.1
- Annual                                   43.51   106.09   143.09    104.03    90.79         38.36     5.61
- Cumulative                               43.51   149.60   292.69    396.72   487.51    525.87   531.48
3.   O&M Costs for New Equipment ($ mii.) ia.2       0.87      2.99     5.85       7.93      9.75      10.52    10.63       10.63
4.   Total Annual Costs ($ mil.)                    44.38   109.08   148.94    111.96   100.54         48.88    16.24        10.63
PROGRAM BENEFITS la.3
5.  Improved Reliability by Maintaining
Non-Interruptible Power Contracts   /a.4
5.1  Export to Austria, Czech Rep. & Other
- Energy (GWh)                 /a.12                 704    1,377       1,866    2,293      2,474    2,500        2,500
- Incremental Revenues ($ mil.)  /a.5                2.95     5.78       783       9.62      10a8      0.49       1a49
5.2  Incremental Domestic Sales
- Energy (GWh)                 /a.8                 2,700    5,467      8,304   11,212    14,192   17,247        17,247
- Incremental Revenues ($ mil.)  /a.7                1.94     3.92       5.96      8.04      70.18    12.37       1237
5.3  Base Year Domestic Demand
- Energy (GWh)                 Ia.6                 9,120   17,843    24,185   29,720    32,058   32,400         32,400
- Incremental Revenues ($ mil.)  /a.7                6.54    12.80      1735    21.32       22.99    23.24        23.24
6.   Reduction in Spinning Reserves
& Standby Capacity
- Peak Demand at Generation Level (MW)        23,250   23,810   24,880    24,970   25,570    26,190   26,910          26,910
- Reduction in Ordered Capacity (MW) ta.8                  134      274        373      469        518       538         538
- Savings in Capacity Charges ($ mil.) /a.9               7 10    14.52      19.77    24.86      27.45    28.51        28.51
7.   Savings from Reduction in Transmission
Losses, Unsupplied Demand
& Generation Costs ($ mil.)         /a.10        1.15     3.94      7.71     70.45    12.84       13.85    14.00       14.00
8.   Savings in Incremental O&M Costs
from Replaced Equipment ($mil.)     /a.11                 1.86     3.63       4.93      6.05       6.53     6.60        6.60
9.   Maintaining Export to Germany       /a.12
- Quantity (GWh)                                                                                       3,300       3,300
- Sales Revenues ($ million)                                                                           27.69       27.69
10.  Total Annual Benefits ($ mil.)                  1.15    24.33    48.36       66.29    82.73      91.38    1229         1229
PROGRAM NEr BENEFITS
11. Total Annual Net Benetits ($ mil.)            ($43.23) ($84.75) ($100.58)  ($45.67) ($17.81)1  $42.50  $106.66    $112.27
12. Program Internal Rate of Return                   21%
ASSUMPTIONS OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
la.1  Investment Costs exclude price contingencies, customs duties & import taxes, and interests during construction.
la.2  O&M Costs FoT New Equipment/yeaT   2.0% o1 Cumulative Investment Costs  la.3 ItemsB 5, e and 8 01 the program bnsfitts aTe attributable to the
/a.4  Percent of Energy Demand Becoming Interruptible                         rehabilitation component of the Investment program;
100% of Export to Austria, Czech Rep. & Other                       Item 7 to the system reinforcement component only; and
30% of 1995 Domestic Demand                                        Item 9 to both the rehabilitation and reinforcement components
100% of Incremental Domestic Demand                            /a.5 Price Ratio Interruptible/Non-Interruptible Contract
sa.6  Total Domestic Demand at High Voltage Level 108.000 GWh in 1995                50% For Domestic Sales
and 126.247 GWh in 2001                        50% For Export Contracts
la.7  Transmission Revenues from Domestic Energy Sales        St,434 per GWh
/a.8  Reduction in Spinning Reserves & Standby Capacity         2.0% ot Annual Peak Demand
1a.9  Marginal Cost of Generation Capacity (Peaker Method-Tariff Study)  $53 per kW-year                              Austria, Czech
MaO1 Results from Load Flow Analysis & Probabilistic Simulation of Supply Reliability  /a.12 ExPort Contracts  Germany Rep. & Other
based on Monte Carlo Method (MEXICO Model of Electricite de France).                - Capacity (MW)          0oo         475
|a.1I Savings in Incremental O&M Costs    2.004 of Value of Existing Assets per year     - Energy (GWhlyear)     3,300       2,500
Value ot Existing Assets        $330 million                                        - Net Revenues ($IGWh)   $8,390    $8,390



BRD 25502
,xRNowec                          ~~RUSSIAN                     ! ,2~N
,          FEDERATION                      I         ACt                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~HIGH VOLTAGE ELEC:TRICITY GRID
I    GDANS K BLONIE *    Tj_
, ;<ovO  ;  t  :  g ?' \ 75GLv AGG;V 220Lv IIOLV ,r4ES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7CL     00V    20VilkvLiE
/    ~~~~^ ;DOWO   ,>   9    ; i               ,                       0                    ;,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ELK                                                                         I' SERV1CE
XRECLAW                                                                                           TK   , | / M IK' YNlt 315                5                                                                                                tGLV E lCI,,ST;   ON A   DL
POUCELs  /  ',   $   ,                                                                                                                                                                 JL G kV L r E C?E RA r r G A r ' 1 5 LV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00kV-'ECPPl]N  I 'Mk
GUNKe  \>/  ,  i  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ / ,tLGRUD2AD;  ,  >,  \ ;.0 Lv i sE OPfKA rkG Wul ' IG LV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mk'LJE OEI-.NG  T   k
V eRADE_zOsCY ,/Bl/ A IE''                                                                                                                                                           ALYSTOK  ROS                                                             OSTROVV llATNS-S55 G PPO.ECT
,,      /         [E~~~~~YDGbC.     .IORUN                                          OSTROLEKAA 5'                    j3     -QA EW      \                                                                     rEWG; G00 k I ESTiv
g  = +  ~~~~~~   /t ~~~~~                     ~~   vVICiWEK_ i~~~~~~~~~~        . ,PLOCT y                                                                                                          )     i                       N SERV<E
tY        0                         {     ~~~~~~ZERFIONAK                                                     - W--AfP00ZC    <   vRSAW'                                                                                                       DR  SQJ- 
vJ!   P3                                                                                                                                                 EWSKA_-AN>   CSlK>T^bENERATNO  PtANTS
52                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A       .      9DC-    I j  YDROPOWER 5 
/ ,CTLESN10W j \ \ ~~~~~~~~~~ADAMO                                                                  PIATEC w 
   A   9   ;   yLES/NO- 7 tr l {1 '\ O RANSTORA^FRS~~~~-
.   /  W g              r    \ cSTwOW                      C X                                                                       ,\^,    > /                                     2 0 ''O V   lO;V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
t   vP(-rLKO*I   t '   =X3TOTRKow  \             R O 7r3L U D U N                                     i                            _                                                 _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 'PWOER
j  /   \J-APASKUROW>CE   y       gDElCHAT9YvX                 _E                     A   AtRAMOWICEX          t CHEUMQD    X                                s                           v            S.   ;        X             =~r oo/I I  kV 400 1 0 ky .00/ /  20/s
E <S T > R F/~ZUK                                             O STC,,          PAA      T                                                                                                                    22J                           IEDil TSoD 
H     CR ECH REPEUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       'L,EH,c POWEOW  AGENERA_yT.__-ING: 
USKO<K \ < gROSN ~ v |. ^ KIE-C
D~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, KsoC                                                                                                                                                                                           CAACT BY r,    rV,'  O O ;H_2 -
K [OMET225       r '                           j      t             '                      \ *  ~~~~~~ !                                                      q   *>          >         ,           s # sj9_, .0eR
. Qz Ctcs2w; r                                                                          AM, OS_C__/
9Ooerdr5  !  SLOVAK REPUBllC X < s e ,+-_-x. > -, _ E \~~~~~~Lo   IT
q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BA H                              w I                          K.    I     
./Dogeon" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~    ~     ~     ~    v  



I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
rM Ay   ii N -1 A,                         F
I. t,jp-)cirt-   IN  :          I 571F~c2;_  FFC)I_
"r
I Y L-e :   -SAFR






