                   INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                         RESTRUCTURING STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 04/24/2012                                   Report No.: AC6663
1. Basic Project Data
Country: Bolivia                                 Project ID: P101298
Project Name: Second Participatory Rural Investment
Task Team Leader: David Tuchschneider
Estimated Appraisal Date: November 5,            Estimated Board Date: December 20, 2007
2007
Managing Unit: LCSAR                             Lending Instrument: Specific Investment
                                                 Loan
Sector: Roads and highways (40%);Irrigation and drainage (30%);Sub-national
government administration (15%);Central government administration (10%);General
agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (5%)
Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (33%);Participation and civic engagement
(17%);Indigenous peoples (17%);Other environment and natural resources management
(17%);Municipal governance and institution building (16%)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):              0
IDA Amount (US$m.):              20
GEF Amount (US$m.):               0
PCF Amount (US$m.):               0
Other financing amounts by source:
         BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                               0.23
         Local Communities                                                0.26
         DENMARK: Danish Intl. Dev. Assistance (DANIDA)                  10.90
         Local Govts. (Prov., District, City) of Borrowing Country        2.20
         Municipalities of Borrowing Country                              9.72
         SWITZERLAND: Swiss Agency for Dev. & Coop. (SDC)                 4.62
         Financing Gap                                                    0.00
                                                                         27.93
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment
Simplified Processing                            Simple []          Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)
                                                                     Yes [ ]      No [X]
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)

2. Project Objectives
Pilot the strengthening of institutional arrangements between the national and Eligible
Subnational Governments and civil society for sustainable management of subnational
public investments in selected productive sectors with an emphasis on territorial
development.

3. Project Description
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening (US$ 10.16 million)
  Component implementation is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Autonomy
(MA), in coordination with the nine AMDES. The AMDES promote, facilitate and
supervise component activities at the departmental level. Most of the activities
themselves are implemented through technical assistance contracts by municipalities
and/or their associations (mancomunidades).
  The objectives of the Institutional Strengthening component are to: (a) develop the
capacities of subnational governments (and their mancomunidades, or associations) to
coordinate the actions of a variety of governmental, social and private actors, and to
increase funding for, and improve the administration of, investments and support
subnational governments’ transition to fully operational autonomous governments; (b)
facilitate the process of coordination among municipalities and between them and other
subnational governments; (c) support collective action and empower groups of rural
communities and poor producers in order to enable them to participate effectively in
priority-setting, monitoring and evaluation of public actions; and (d) support the national
government’s capacity to formulate enabling regulations and strengthen the newly
created MA, specifically the Autonomy State Service (SEA) to support the subnational
government’s transition to fully operational autonomous governments.
  Component 1, Institutional Strengthening, is being modified to include all autonomous
subnational governments (Departments, Municipalities, Regional Governments,
Indigenous Autonomies of Peasant Origin - AIOCs and Mancomunidades) in the Project
area to be eligible for institutional strengthening activities. Additionally, activities to
strengthen the newly created MA, specifically the SEA, are being included for Project
financing to support the subnational governments’ transition to fully operational
autonomous governments.
  The main outputs of the component are: (a) established rules for coordination and
cofinancing between subnational governments and support for their transition to fully
operational autonomous governments; (b) supramunicipal development plans; (c) a
reduction of administrative costs required for investment execution; (d) an increase in the
proportion of departmental and municipal budgets aimed at productive investments; and
(e) trained municipal, social and departmental actors in investment planning, execution
and operations and maintenance (O&M).
  A key focus for the component is to facilitate an increase in the scale of planning,
investments and O&M activities, while establishing clear and non-discretional rules for
coordination and cofinancing between departments and municipalities. Component
design emphasizes the need for flexible approaches that accommodate to different
political, financial, economic and social departmental situations. Having established the
interest of departments and eligible municipalities to participate in the project on the
basis of a minimum set of rules (spelled out in Interinstitutional Agreements between
them and the MA), the component provides technical assistance to, and facilitates a
process for, departments and municipalities to formulate a basic set of departmental rules
and institutional arrangements for subnational cofinancing.
  The component supports the participation of public and social actors in coordinated
planning exercises. Most subnational actors have agreed at the outset on the territorial
spaces in which to coordinate planning, investments and O&M; and, indeed, the project
area is divided into 18 regions, distributed within the nine departments. Different
departments are moving towards such a regional approach in order to better organize
their coordination with local governments.
 In order to accommodate departmental preferences and different levels of subnational
coordination, the component has allowed for different points of entry in order to obtain a
gradual improvement of interinstitutional relations. Therefore, territorial planning, as an
instrument for coordination and cofinancing (concurrencia) has been carried out as
needed at different levels, gradually encompassing increasing complexity.
 Institutional strengthening activities have been mostly managed by municipalities,
although specific arrangements, including the type of consultants that provide services
and the level of involvement of MA and the AMDES have varied depending on the
specific requirements of each activity. Quality has been ensured by standardizing the
provision of services and defining clear parameters and outputs for training and technical
assistance. The AMDES have provided close oversight of outputs at the local level and
payments have been issued based on their certification. In cases where standardization
was paramount, training and technical assistance has been provided by consultants hired
at the national or departmental levels through a system of vouchers for municipalities. In
others, TA and training has been provided by multiple providers hired under TOR which
have defined results while requiring tailoring to local situations. Arrangement for each,
including TORs and selection procedures, is described in detail in the Operations Manual
(OM).
 Subcomponent 1.1: Support to autonomy process (US$ 2.16 million)

  The support to autonomy process subcomponent aims to enable subnational
governments (by themselves or through their associations) to increase the efficiency,
effectiveness and sustainability of investments aimed at local economic development.
  The subcomponent has provided technical assistance to subnational governments in
order to help them formulate a basic set of rules governing: (a) which resources are
provided for cofinancing infrastructure; (b) a formula for distributing these resources and
a cofinancing matrix; (c) a clear division of responsibilities on the basis of the established
legal framework and procedures for coordinating subnational government investments;
and (d) institutional arrangement for executing investments and transferring resources.
Technical assistance has been provided to help subnational governments to evaluate and
improve the administrative and operational procedures required for the efficient
implementation of these arrangements.
  The rules for coordination and cofinancing between subnational governments have
provided a solid basis for territorial planning. Planning has been carried out at different
levels, promoting a process of increased coordination between local social actors,
municipalities, departments, regional governments, and national agencies with local
presence. Where municipalities have formed solid associations (mancomunidades), and
institutional actors have agreed, these supramunicipal spaces form the theatre for
investment coordination. The component has also financed regional development plans
focused on promoting economic development. Municipal governments have financed the
operations of mancomunidades, and delegated the implementation or operation of some
investments or services to them. Where supramunicipal coordination was weak and
institutional actors did not have the capacity to coordinate actions on a wider scale, the
component supported the formulation of sector plans, focused on transportation
infrastructure, irrigation or the creation of better conditions for private and community
enterprises.
  All plans have been based on the informed and engaged participation of local
communities and social groups. Departments have participated actively, and the
component has organized financing that has been directed at both municipal-level
investments and related department-level investments.
  Planning has included a strong emphasis on operation and maintenance which is
reaching beyond the actual investments that are being financed by the project. The project
is improving the sustainability of the existing stock of infrastructure by assisting key
actors to: (a) visualize the operation of whole networks (as in the case of roads or
marketing facilities); (b) consider the state and needs of existing infrastructure, as well as
new priorities; and (c) clarify and establish the institutional roles, arrangements and
resources required for proper operation and maintenance.
  The subcomponent has also provided technical assistance and training for
implementation to municipalities and other local actors as needed. Activities have
focused on clarifying prioritized project ideas, adequate budgeting of priorities,
organizing the implementation of the investment programs, monitoring implementation
of the plans and providing transparent information to the public. The subcomponent has
financed periodic evaluations of the effects and impacts of the plans.
  MA has implemented a training program for institutional and social decision-makers in
order to provide them with negotiating tools to facilitate coordination. This training has
emphasized negotiation techniques, tools for dialogue and constructive conflict
management.
  Additional proposed activities under this restructuring for Component 1 are: a)
Technical assistance to create and operate the National Autonomy and Decentralization
Council, which is a coordination and consultation space for the implementation of
regional autonomies. This Council would consist of representatives of the departmental
assemblies, Indigenous Assemblies, governors, among others. Support will be provided
in decreasing percentages of funding; b) Support for the preparation, consultation and
validation of legal statutes of newly created autonomous Departments, Municipalities,
Regions and AIOCs in accordance with the provisions of the new Autonomy Law; c)
Technical assistance to create and operate the Autonomy State Service (SEA), a
deconcentrated unit of the MA, whose function is to provide all the technical inputs
required for the design and implementation of autonomous subnational government
procedures such as the implementation of the transfer of powers, the design of
mechanisms for calculating the cost of assuming new responsibilities, the measurement
of indicators of the socio-economic impact of the autonomy process. The SEA will work
with a Board of Directors and will work on proposals derived from the National
Autonomy and Decentralization Council. Support will be provided in decreasing
percentages of funding; and d) Support to the Ministry of Environment in the
development of environmental regulations to be implemented as part of the autonomy
process and to ensure the implementation of Bank safeguards in the newly created
constituencies.
  Subcomponent 1.2: Implementation of Territorial Plans (US$ 2.63 million)
  The objective of this subcomponent has been to improve the implementation of
territorial plans.

  After plans are formulated, this subcomponent provided technical assistance and
training for implementation to municipalities and other local actors as needed. Activities
have focused on clarifying prioritized project ideas, adequate budgeting of priorities,
organizing the implementation of the investment programs, monitoring implementation
of the plans and providing transparent information to the public. Technical assistance has
been provided for market studies, zoning and land use plans, commercial fairs, and other
investment promotion activities, included in territorial plans.

  Formulation, support to implementation and evaluation of plans has been carried out
through contracts signed between municipalities or mancomunidades and individuals or
firms under TORs agreed with MA and include in O&M. This subcomponent has
increased administrative and managerial capacities of municipalities and
mancomunidades. At the municipal level it has focused on weaker municipal
governments to ensure that they can participate fully in project activities without being
hampered by basic deficiencies in management. These municipalities have delegated
some administrative functions to mancomunidades. As mancomunidades assume greater
functions (by delegation), they have also required strengthening.

 The subcomponent included formal, non-formal training and technical assistance for
municipalities in administrative systems and managerial tools. This range of instruments
has been provided for weaker municipalities to create or consolidate basic capacities.
Technical assistance has been provided for the consolidation of mancomunidades. It
included the elaboration of statutes, institutional restructuring, management mechanisms,
etc.

  Additionally, the subcomponent has supported the emerging regional planning process,
and in accordance with the new Autonomies Law, is supporting the creation and
functioning of Social Economic Development Boards (CRES), as the entity responsible
for regional development management, through preparation of guidelines and legal
statutes, organizational structure, functional regulations and operational plans.
  Subnational governments have also been provided formal and non-formal training in
skills development related to zoning, roles and authority of regulatory institutions and
instruments for the development of territorial baselines. Additional support has been
provided for Departmental governments in the preparation and articulation territorial
planning Toolkits for the deconcentrated management of departments and regions.
  Subcomponent 1.3: Strengthening investment capacity (US$ 2.3 million)
  The objective of this subcomponent is to improve the quality of pre-investment studies
and investment execution by strengthening the capacity of local actors to administer
subproject related contracts.
  Activities carried out in the subcomponent have included formal and non-formal
training of subnational government authorities, and mancomunidad technicians, and
Vigilance Committees in: 1) pre-investment contract management, including drafting
terms of reference, selection of consultants, supervision and payments; and 2) investment
contract management, including reviewing terms of reference and specifications for
works and goods, selection of consultants and procurement of goods and works,
subproject supervision and payment procedures in coordination with FPS.
  MA developed the curricula for formal training, which has been provided by
universities selected by MA under TOR included in the OM. Training has been imparted
through formal courses with emphasis on carrying out concrete activities.
  Non-formal training has been adjusted to the rhythm and needs of municipalities and
mancomunidades during project implementation and, thus, has been limited in scope to
ensuring adequate knowledge of procurement and contract administration to a wider
range of individuals involved in executing specific tasks at the local level. Non-formal
training has been provided by specialized consultants, selected by the AMDES, under
TOR included in the OM.
  In addition to training, the subcomponent has provided financing for municipalities
which required on-site technical assistance for pre-investment and investment
procurement and contract management and other key aspects of public management. This
TA has been required by weaker municipalities or mancomunidades, and specifically
when municipalities and mancomunidades executed complex contracts. The required
consultants have been hired by municipalities or mancomunidades under standard TOR.
  The subcomponent has financed formal and informal training for transparent
administration transition to contribute to the stable management and reliability of the
information for new municipal authorities allowing continuity of municipal management,
as set forth in the regulations.
  Subcomponent 1.4: Strengthening operation and maintenance capacities (US$ 0.86
million)

  The objective of this subcomponent has been to help municipal governments,
communities and producer groups to design and implement O&M arrangements both for
the investments financed by the project and for the existing stock of municipal
infrastructure. Its implementation has been closely coordinated with the Productive
Investments Component, which requires local actors to demonstrate adequate O&M as a
condition for financing investment subprojects.
  The subcomponent includes the following activities: 1) non-formal training in O&M for
municipal authorities, municipal and mancomunidad officials, and communities and
producer groups; 2) technical assistance to formulate O&M plans for municipal
infrastructure; 3) technical assistance for implementation of municipal O&M plans; 4)
technical assistance for communities and producer groups in O&M of community-level
productive investments; and 5) horizontal exchanges between local actors to disseminate
good practices. Specific maintenance plans for transport infrastructure have been
included as part of the formulation of transportation plans in Component 1.
  Non-formal training in O&M has focused, inter alia, on tools for measuring the stock of
infrastructure, estimating and budgeting maintenance requirements, alternative
arrangements for executing O&M, and budgeting issues. Training has been provided at
the departmental level by specialized consultants under standard TOR.
  The subcomponent has financed the formulation of O&M plans for municipal
infrastructure. These plans include: (a) an inventory of the stock of municipal
infrastructure; (b) an assessment of maintenance needs and operational requirements (if
applicable); (c) a strategy for covering the needs, including the setting of priorities and
the clarification of institutional responsibilities; (d) the definition of the institutional
arrangements and mechanisms required for implementation; and (e) multi-annual
budgeting. The execution of the agreed budget has been a condition for investment
financing. To ensure quality standards and systematic application, MA has hired a
specialized entity at the national level which has trained and provides TA to specialized
consultants hired at the departmental level. The latter has, in turn, provide TA to
departmental municipalities.
  Municipalities which have formulated sector-specific (transportation, irrigation) or
municipality-wide O&M plans have received TA for implementation. The activity has
included assistance for: (a) implementing the agreed institutional arrangements; (b) hiring
the required companies, micro-enterprises or communities; (c) coordination with other
institutions or communities. It lasts for at least 9 months and includes at least one round
of maintenance activities.
  The subcomponent also finances TA assistance for communities and producer groups
who manage productive investments (including irrigation). Individual consultants have
been hired by municipalities under TOR included in the OM and tailored to each specific
situation.
  Subcomponent 1.5: Strengthening of associated national government entities (US$ 2.21
million)
  This subcomponent has supported selected national government institutions to
participate effectively in project implementation. It has financed two activities: 1) sector
studies; and 2) the FPS action plan.
  Studies have been required by national entities that are charged with regulating activities
in the sectors selected by the project. The following have been supported: (a) Rural roads
strategy (Ministry of Transportation); and (b) Municipal strengthening strategy (MA).
Other studies may be required by selected entities (including Irrigation, Rural
Development, and Public Investment and External Financing), particularly following the
adoption of Bolivia’s new constitution, which has established a new framework for inter-
governmental relations.
  The FPS Action Plan was developed with the Bank’s technical assistance. The Bank
conducted an Operational Review of FPS which detailed a series of fiduciary and
operational issues which were needed to be resolved in order for FPS to operate with
Bank financing. The FPS Action Plan has been designed to increase FPS’s capacity and
to ensure fiduciary standards in its operation. Implementation of the Action Plan has been
vital both for government, which has delegated new responsibilities to FPS, and for the
Bank, because it has four operations implemented through FPS. By agreement between
the Bank and the Bolivian government, it was decided that the bulk of this plan would be
financed through this project. Under the Action Plan, the project has financed
consultants, goods and training. Consultancies have included: (a) consolidation of FPS’s
Subproject Management System; (b) implementation of the training program; and (c) line
personnel in environmental, fiduciary and operational oversight areas. Line personnel are
being gradually assimilated into FPS and, by project-end are on track to be fully financed
by the institution.
  Component 2: Productive Investments (US$ 30.60 million)
  The aim of this component has been to provide support for the implementation of plans
prepared under component 1. The component provides national (IDA and bilateral)
cofinancing solely for eligible investments that fall under the competencies of municipal
governments as well as for improving poor communities’ access to productive assets.
Subnational cofinancing is provided by municipal and departmental governments, and
communities and producer groups. National cofinancing covers seventy-five percent of
the financial requirements of subprojects.
  Territorial planning has promoted priority-setting based on scale and network
considerations and has led to a number of subprojects involving more than one
municipality. Sector planning, particularly in the case of transportation, has led to
grouping of works under a smaller number of subprojects, thus reducing administrative
costs for municipalities.
  Investments under the component have been linked to the implementation of
municipalities’ O&M plans, particularly in the case of transportation planning.
Investments and maintenance expenditures have been grouped in tranches, and financing
of the latter investment tranches have been conditioned on the execution of the first O&M
tranches. In addition, each subproject has included a design of its specific O&M needs.
  The component is managed by the Social and Productive Investment Fund (FPS-Fondo
de Inversión Productiva y Social) in coordination with municipal governments.
  Small works under subprojects are procured by municipalities through community
subgrants. Only communities that are organized and have legal personality have been
eligible to receive subgrants. Local materials are secured via three quotations and
disbursements are based on physical advances of the small works.

 Eligible investments include: (a) transportation infrastructure; (b) micro-irrigation; (c)
natural-resources management; and (d) other municipal infrastructure for the promotion
of economic activities and natural resource management.

  Eligible investments for transportation infrastructure include: (a) upgrading and
rehabilitation of communal and municipal roads; (b) construction of vehicular and
pedestrian bridges; and (c) river and lake transport infrastructure. Investments in
transportation infrastructure build on the successful experiences with spot improvement
of rural roads implemented by the first PRI project, although the proportion of higher
volume roads financed has increase as the project has responded to sub-regional scale and
demand. Investments are financed on the basis of transportation plans formulated by
municipalities or mancomunidades. These plans allow for the prioritization of both
investment and maintenance needs taking into account both network considerations as
well as the appropriate division of institutional responsibilities.

  Eligible investments for small and micro-irrigation included: (i) small reservoirs and
river collectors; (ii) irrigation canals; and (iii) surface water collectors (atajados).
Irrigation subprojects are cofinanced by water users, who assume responsibility for
O&M. Subproject implementation includes intensive technical assistance prior, during
and after the construction of infrastructure to ensure the application of agricultural
innovations that add value to production and adequate O&M. Feasibility studies include
business plans with clear marketing strategies. Sector planning at the supramunicipal
level allows for clarification of allocation of user rights based on wider needs as
measured at the level of micro-basins.

 Eligible municipal investments for the promotion of economic activities include: (a)
marketing facilities; (b) telecommunication and information centers; and (c) public
investments for tourism promotion.

  A negative list exists in order to exclude investments that may have negative impacts
over the environment. The list includes the following: (a) new road construction; (b)
transportation works in primary forests and protected areas; (c) water reservoirs higher
than 10 meters or which flood more than 100 hectares; (d) irrigation works that feed more
than 100 incremental hectares; (e) flood protection or drainage works that affect
wetlands; (f) works in archaeological areas with the exception of minor preservation
works linked to approved tourism promotion strategy; (g) subprojects that may induce
voluntary or involuntary occupation of forest lands; and (h) subprojects that may induce
resettlement.

 The component does not finance interventions within 5 kilometers of or inside primary
natural forests. Interventions in protected areas or their buffer zones requires express
approval from protected area authorities and must be included in their own investment
plans.

 The component’s main outputs are (i) pre-investment studies and (ii) investment
subprojects. All investments include O&M activitie and require beneficiary municipal
governments or communities to demonstrate capacity to manage infrastructure.

 Subcomponent 2.1: Pre-investment (US$ 0.91 million)

  Two outputs are measured in the pre-investment subcomponent: (a) subproject profiles;
and (b) pre-investment studies. Profiles are generated by FPS as a result of the evaluation
of project ideas prioritized in the planning processes and presented by municipalities and
municipal associations (mancomunidades). Once FPS determines that the project ideas
are eligible, it hires consultants under standard TOR included in the OM from a pool of
pre-qualified consultants. Profiles determine subproject viability based on a basic
technical, economic, social and environmental analysis. When the profiles show the
subproject is viable, municipal governments (or their associations) hire consultants to
complete project design, adding detailed construction plans and environmental mitigation
measures if needed. Final pre-investment studies include all technical specifications and
all the documentation required by the municipality to proceed to the procurement stage.
Final payment for consultants are conditioned on FPS’s approval.

 Subcomponent 2.2: Investment (US$ 29.70 million)

 Subprojects are approved by FPS’s departmental offices. FPS personnel present the
subproject evaluation to the Comité Departament de Aprobación de Proyectos (CDAP), a
committee which includes FPS departmental management and representatives of civil
society and of municipalities. Once approved by the CDAP, FPS signs an agreement with
the municipality (or association) and department when departmental cofinancing is
provided, specifying the amount due for counterpart contributions. Counterpart funding is
deposited in an FPS account under an agreed schedule. The agreement includes the right
of FPS to withdraw counterpart funds directly from Treasury Accounts for financial
transfers in case any actor does not comply with the agreed disbursement schedules.

 Subprojects are procured and managed by municipalities or their associations.
Subprojects include works, goods and consulting services. In all cases, the cost of
supervision and TA for O&M are included under the subproject. Irrigation subprojects
include TA to support technological innovation by water users under a business plan
prepared during the pre-investment phase. TA assistance for O&M of irrigation
subprojects continue for at least a year after completion of the works, financed by the
municipal government, in order to ensure the adoption of adequate O&M procedures.
Other small works under subprojects are procured through community subgrants.

 Municipalities’ sign subgrant contracts with communities and disburse in tranches upon
the completion of pre-defined physical stages. Municipalities also hire TA if required and
a project supervisor.

 Subproject supervisors issue completion certificates (certificados de avance de obra),
which are certified by the municipal government. FPS disburses on reception of these
certificates.

 FPS oversight is tailored to the level of risk presented by each municipality according to
a standard set of indicators which includes municipal capacity, stability, and size and
complexity of the subprojects. In high risk cases, FPS conducts prior review of
procurement and executes field visits prior to every disbursement. In low risk cases, FPS
conducts ex post reviews of procurement, and conducts field visits only after 50 percent
and 80 percent of the cost has been disbursed. FPS is present at subproject closing in all
cases.

 Component 3: Project Management (US$ 7.16 million)

 This component’s outputs are the efficient and effective coordination of the project and
an M&E system which are measured by progress in achieving project objectives.

 The component is achieving this through the provision of consultants, goods, and
incremental operating costs which supports the operation of a National Operations Unit
(NOU) integrated within MA’s structure, and nine Territorial Operating Units (TOU) in
the departments of the Borrower. The TOU is operated by the Departmental Municipal
Associations (AMDES).

 The component finances the operation of a management information system, the
implementation of monitoring, evaluation and learning arrangements, and the completion
of technical studies and operating cost of FPS for the project. The component has also
ensured that effective fiduciary arrangements have been maintained in place during
implementation.

 The component has the following subcomponents:

 Subcomponent 3.1: Project implementation and management (US$ 4.81million)

  This subcomponent has put in place an efficient and highly capable technical team in
MA, the AMDES and has augmented capacity within the Regional Offices of FPS. It has
supported the placement of technical staff in the NOU (project coordinator, investment
specialist, 2 institutional strengthening specialists, Indigenous Peoples specialist,
environmental specialist, M&E specialist, communications specialist, accountant,
disbursement officer, procurement specialist, and a legal assistant – a lawyer and financia
manager are supported the NOU and are financed by the MA), and in the TOUs
(territorial coordinator, investment specialist, institutional strengthening specialist and an
administrator). The key staff, including one national coordinator and nine territorial
coordinators, has been selected by a competitive, transparent and open process which was
carried out by the MA for national coordinator and the AMDES for the territorial
coordinators. Addition project staff members have been selected based on the same
process by an independent, external human resources firm. One additional procurement
specialist has been contracted for each of the 9 FPS Regional Offices. All staff has had a
performance evaluation annually.

 The subcomponent finances goods and incremental operating costs for MA and the
AMDES.

  In addition, the component will finance: (a) national and departmental workshops to
launch the project; (b) internal coordination and training activities; and (c) management
of competitions for investment ideas.

  The subcomponent has ensured the functioning, transparent, accountable and efficient
financial management system for the project, including external and independent
financial and procurement audits (including for FPS). The former are conducted annually
and the latter prior to the mid-term review and on the last year of project implementation.

 Subcomponent 3.2: Communication strategy (US$ 0.29 million)

 The objective of the sub-component is to ensure transparency and informed
participation of the beneficiaries of the project. A communications strategy for the
project has been designed and implemented, including audio-visual and print media and
focused on supporting implementation.

 Subcomponent 3.3: Planning, monitoring and evaluation (US$ 0.27)

 The outcome of this subcomponent is the establishment of a functional, transparent,
participatory and efficient M&E system, including accounting software, for the project.
The efforts are coordinated through the M&E specialist stationed in the NOU through, (a)
a series of workshops for local actors and technical staff in the AMDESs; (b) a
performance feedback survey conducted by the beneficiaries on project staff performance
and overall project performance; (c) an external and independent evaluation conducted at
the time of mid-term review and project completion to complement the in-house M&E;
and (d) a process of participatory systematization and learning at project end.

 Subcomponent 3.4: Studies (US$ 0.07 million)

 The subcomponent supports technical studies relevant to project objectives and
activities during implementation, including social and institutional assessments necessary
for including new municipalities in the project area.

 Subcomponent 3.5: Project Preparation Facility (PPF) (US$ 0.30 million)

 A PPF was used to support the preparation of the project.

 Subcomponent 3.6: FPS operational costs (US$ 1.41 million)

 This subcomponent finances direct and indirect operating costs incurred by FPS in the
administration of the Productive Investments component. Payments are based on outputs
and will do not exceed 5 percent of the total subproject cost.

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
The project area encompasses 195 municipalities, 4 of which are in transition to AIOCs,
71 of which only participate in the rural transport subcomponent while the remaining 120
participate in all aspects of the project. The 120 municipalities were selected based on
the criteria of high level of poverty as defined by IDH index, high level of rural
population, high level of indigenous population, strong productive potential based on, for
example, contribution to GDP and capacity to generate employment, and zero net
migration. The total population of selected municipalities is nearly 1.2 million amounting
to roughly 193,500 households. They represent about 14% of the total population of the
country. Eighty percent of them are rural dwellers, and 67% are indigenous. This area
contains 4,425 formally recognized indigenous comunidades campesinas in Bolivia,
specifically Quechua, Aymara, Guarani, Chiquitano, and Mojeño. Each territory and
department (Prefecture) is represented in the project area. About 65% of the population in
the project area is indigenous. In the 120 municipalities, the project is serving around
230,000 direct beneficiaries, or 38,600 households.

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
   Ms Gabriela Arcos (LCSEN)
   Ms Maria Ruth Llanos Vda De Navarro (LCSSO)
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                              Yes         No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                         X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                 X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                          X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                      X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                               X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                               X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                          X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                   X

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
Six policies were triggered at the time of appraisal: OP/BP 4.01 on Environmental
Assessment, OP/BP 4.04 Natural Habitats, OP/BP 4.36 Forests, OP 4.09 Pest
Management, OP/BP 4.11 on Physical Cultural Resources, and OP/BP 4.10 on
Indigenous Peoples. Overall performance of triggered social and environmental
safeguards has been satisfactory to date. Compliance with OP/BP 4.01 on Environmental
Assessment, OP/BP 4.04 Natural Habitats, OP/BP 4.36 Forests, OP 4.09 Pest
Management, OP/BP 4.11 on Physical Cultural Resources, and OP/BP 4.10 on
Indigenous Peoples has been confirmed during supervision missions. Where necessary,
training has been provided to strengthen capacity.

  OP/BP 4.12 was not triggered in 2007 because the project was not expected to cause
taking of land or other assets and not require physical relocation of populations.
Information available at the time of appraisal indicated that none of the road and/or
bridge sub-projects required significant changes in width or alignment.

 During the April 2010 technical supervision mission and July 2010 supervision mission,
the Bank learned that one road and one bridge subprojects had affected third parties and
that adequate solutions where employed which were consistent with OP/BP 4.12.
However, these two cases were not formally reported to the Bank.It was agreed that the
Project should seek to activate OP/BP 4.12. In this spirit, it was agreed with FPS that: i)
100 percent of the existing portfolio would be reviewed and assessed for any third party
affectation to assess how many, if any, subprojects involved third party affectation, if
there was affectation, where the appropriate measures taken and if not prepare the
appropriate remediation action plan; ii) a Resettlement Framework Policy would be
prepared for the project and formally approved by the World Bank; and iii) any
subprojects under preparation that had any affectation of third parties would comply with
OP/BP 4.12 policy or not be financed.
 The Government prepared the Involuntary Resettlement Framework which was
presented to the World Bank and received the No Objection on September 15, 2011 and
published publically by the Government of Bolivia on November 30, 2011. The
Government also hired consultants with support of World Bank social development
specialists and team to review the entire portfolio of 225 Productive
Investments/Subprojects to confirm that any potential affectation was dealt with in
accordance with OP/BP 4.12. All investments had a desk review to confirm compliance.
In 83 subprojects it was not possible to confirm compliance from the desk review so
specific site visits were made to assess compliance. Out of the 83 subprojects, 7 had
minor land acquisition and another 15 were likely to incur in minor land acquisition,
involving 0.3 to 5 percent of individual landholdings—1.2 to 42 square meters of mostly
agricultural land. Further reviews carried out by the Bank during supervision reduced the
total number of subprojects involving affectations to 20. Of these, by March 2012, six
have implemented appropriate measures and fourteen have adopted and are executing
adequate remediation plans (in 6 cases, no works have been executed yet). No cases of
displacement or physical relocation have occurred throughout the period of
implementation. Neither were any resources and/or livelihoods of any household or
communities affected. All the cases involve minor impacts and adequate measures or
remediation plans have been implemented in all cases. Remediation plans include
detailed actions, timelines and oversight responsibility to confirm compliance.

 Detailed documentation was provided to the World Bank on the review of the 225
Productive Investments/Subprojects including documentation and photos confirming
compliance with OP/BP 4.12.

 The recently approved Involuntary Resettlement Framework will be applied to all new
productive investments/subprojects financed by the project.

  Even though the project has ended up needing to activate OP/BP 4.12, the initial
environmental classification of the project (Category B) remains correct, given that the
project has not had nor is expected to have any large-scale adverse impacts that are
irreversible or unprecedented.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
The project was specifically designed to foster demand driven subprojects in the project
area that have favorable long-term socioeconomic and environmental impacts. The
subprojects have gone through a screening process to ensure maximum socioeconomic
benefits are accrued and any unintended negative environmental impacts are avoided or
minimized.

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
The subproject cycle has resulted in a list of eligible investments as follows: (a)
transportation infrastructure, (b) micro-irrigation, (c) natural-resources management, (d)
productive assets for poor communities, and (e) other municipal infrastructure for the
promotion of economic activities. To complement this process, a negative list was
agreed with FPS in order to exclude investments that may have negative impacts over the
environment. The list includes the following: (a) new road construction, (b)
transportation works in primary forests and protected areas, (c) water reservoirs higher
than 10 meters or which flood more than 100 hectares, (d) irrigation works that feed more
than 100 incremental hectares, (e) flood protection or drainage works that affect
wetlands, (f) works in archaeological areas, (g) subprojects that may induce voluntary or
involuntary occupation of forest lands, and (h) subprojects that may induce resettlement.
  The project has not finance interventions close to or inside natural forests. No
interventions have been in protected areas or their buffer zones.

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
Overall social and environmental safeguards performance has been satisfactory to date.
Compliance with OP/BP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, OP/BP 4.04 Natural
Habitats, OP/BP 4.36 Forests, OP 4.09 Pest Management, OP/BP 4.11 on Physical
Cultural Resources, and OP/BP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples has been confirmed during
supervision missions. Where necessary, training has been provided to strengthen
capacity.

 O.P. 4.01—Environmental Assessment
 Per supervision missions, the EMF has been applied to all subprojects and all issues that
have been identified have been satisfactorily resolved.

 O.P. 4.09—Pest Management
 Per supervision missions, no subprojects have included the use of pesticides and no O.P.
4.09 Pest Management issues have been identified.

 O.P. 4.04—Natural Habitats
 Per supervision missions, no conversion of natural habitats has occurred and no issues
related to O.P. 4.04 Natural Habitats have been identified.

 OP 4.36—Forests
 Per supervision missions, no issues related to O.P. 4.36 Forest have been identified.

 OP 4.11—Physical Cultural Resources
 The project only finances small-scale works in already established commercial zones
and as per supervision missions, no issues related to OP 4.11 Physical Cultural Resources
have been identified.

 OP/BP 4.12—Involuntary Resettlement
 This restructuring will activate OP/BP 4.12, as indicated above, because during project
implementation it has been found there some roads and bridge subprojects had involved
the land acquisition which affected third parties. An Involuntary Resettlement
Framework has been prepared by Government and approved by the World Bank in
September 2011 and a complete review of the existing portfolio was conducted and found
22 had some level of actual or likely affectation. During supervision, this number was
reduced to 20, with 6 having completed remedial actions and 14 under the process of
executing remedial plans, fully compliant with OP 4.12. Remediation plans have detailed
actions, timelines and oversight responsibility to confirm compliance. The recently
approved Involuntary Resettlement Framework will be applied to all new productive
investments financed by the Project.

 Oversight of the implementation of the policy will be conducted during supervision
missions and technical visits by the World Bank.

 OP/BP 4.10—Indigenous Peoples
 Over 3,000 Indigenous communities have benefited from Project activities in subproject
investments and institutional strengthening activities. Because the entire project is an
Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP), the project has ensured that (i) indigenous people affected
by the project receive culturally appropriate social and economic benefits and (ii) when
and if potential adverse effects on indigenous peoples are identified, those adverse effects
are avoided, minimized, mitigated, or compensated.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Stakeholders involved in the project are divided into those that have benefited directly;
those that have benefited indirectly by the project and those have acted as facilitators in
the implementation of the project. The project’s direct beneficiaries have been municipal
governments, and producer organizations such as community firms, SMEs etc., and
indirect beneficiaries have been associations of municipalities and Departments.



B. Disclosure Requirements Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                     N/A
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                     10/17/2007
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                 10/10/2007
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                  10/29/2007
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                      No
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                     09/15/2011
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                 11/30/2011
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                  03/28/2012
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                     Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                     09/14/2007
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                 09/21/2007
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                  10/30/2007
Pest Management Plan:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                    No
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                  10/17/2007
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                              10/10/2007
  Date of submission to InfoShop                               10/29/2007
* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources,
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:



C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?               Yes
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM)           Yes
review and approve the EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the           Yes
credit/loan?
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of        No
critical natural habitats?
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other   N/A
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures
acceptable to the Bank?
OP 4.09 - Pest Management
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues?                      Yes
Is a separate PMP required?                                                     No
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or    N/A
SM? Are PMP requirements included in project design? If yes, does the
project team include a Pest Management Specialist?
OP/BP 4.11 - Physical Cultural Resources
Does the EA include adequate measures related to cultural property?             Yes
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential           Yes
adverse impacts on cultural property?
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as                   N/A
appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples?
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector         N/A
Manager review the plan?
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed    Yes
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager?
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement
  Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process                 Yes
  framework (as appropriate) been prepared?
  If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector           Yes
  Manager review the plan?
  OP/BP 4.36 - Forests
  Has the sector-wide analysis of policy and institutional issues and constraints   N/A
  been carried out?
  Does the project design include satisfactory measures to overcome these           N/A
  constraints?
  Does the project finance commercial harvesting, and if so, does it include        N/A
  provisions for certification system?
  The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
  Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's          Yes
  Infoshop?
  Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a          Yes
  form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
  groups and local NGOs?
  All Safeguard Policies
  Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities       Yes
  been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
  policies?
  Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project      Yes
  cost?
  Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the              Yes
  monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
  Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the                Yes
  borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
  documents?


  D. Approvals

Signed and submitted by:                              Name                            Date
Task Team Leader:                   Mr David Tuchschneider                          09/15/2012
Environmental Specialist:           Ms Gabriela Arcos                               04/19/2012
Social Development Specialist       Ms Maria Ruth Llanos Vda De Navarro             04/18/2012
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Sector Manager:                     Ms Ethel Sennhauser                             04/18/2012
  Comments:
