                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 31780

                   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-30890 SCL-43340 SCL-43350 SCL-43360 SCL-43370 SCL-43380 PPFI-Q0370 TF-29611
                   PPFB-P3190 IDA-30860 IDA-30870 IDA-30880)

                                      ON

                          CREDITS (4) AND LOANS (5)

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.8 MILLION
                     AND US$ 3.6 MILLION, RESPECTIVELY

                                    TO THE

        COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA, GRENADA, ST.KITTS & NEVIS,
               ST. LUCIA, AND ST. VINCENT & THE GRENADINES

                                   FOR AN

            ORGANIZATION OF EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES (OECS)
                   TELECOMMUNICATION REFORM PROJECT




                                 June 14, 2005

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2005)

                                Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar (XCD)
                                    XCD 1.00 = US$ 0.37
                                        US$ 1 = XCD 2.67

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1     December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
C&W   Cable and Wireless
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
ECTEL Eastern Caribbean Telecommunications Authority
IDA   International Development Association
IBRD  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB   International Competitive Bidding
ICT   Information and Communication Technologies
ITU   International Telecommunications Union
NTRC  National Telecommunications Regulatory Commission
OECS  Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PMU   Project Management Unit
PCP   Price Cap Plan
RSMMS Radio Spectrum Monitoring and Management System
RTA   Regional Telecommunications Authority
WTO   World Trade Organization



                              Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                            Country Director:     Caroline Anstey
                             Sector Manager:      Pierre Guislain
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Robert Schware

                           Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
                             Telecommunication Reform Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23

Project ID: P035730                                                  Project Name: OECS: Telecommunication Reform
Team Leader: Robert Schware                                          TL Unit: CITPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 14, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: OECS: Telecommunication Reform                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-30890; SCL-43340;
                                                                                                     SCL-43350; SCL-43360;
                                                                                                     SCL-43370; SCL-43380;
                                                                                                     PPFI-Q0370; TF-29611;
                                                                                                     PPFB-P3190; IDA-30860;
                                                                                                     IDA-30870; IDA-30880
   Country/Department: OECS COUNTRIES                                                     Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (90%); Vocational training
                            (10%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Regulation
                            and competition policy (P); Education for the knowledge economy
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/23/1996                                     Effective: 09/08/1998                10/08/1998
     Appraisal: 02/09/1998                                         MTR: 10/15/2000                  10/15/2000
      Approval: 06/04/1998                                      Closing: 09/30/2002                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENTS/OECS SECRETARIAT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Caroline Anstey                                Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                 Pierre Guislain                                Krishna Challa
Team Leader at ICR:             Robert Schware                                 Robert Schware
ICR Primary Author:             Michel Maechler


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

Introduction

With slowing growth rates and persistently high unemployment and poverty rates, the economies of the
OECS countries face the challenge of diversification. However, prior to project inception, the OECS
region was saddled with a weak and inefficient telecom sector, which inhibited the growth of private
industry--especially in the service sector. The five participating countries shared an expensive and erratic
telephone system that inhibited development. All of the countries had inadequate telecom legislation and
regulatory capacity, and a private firm, Cable and Wireless (C&W), enjoyed effective monopoly power in
the sector. By creating an independent regional regulator and passing new legislation that encouraged
competition, the region hoped to reduce communications costs and increase competitiveness. The Heads of
Government of the 5 countries reckoned that, acting together, they could more effectively address the
incumbent and establish a more robust legal and regulatory framework.


3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to introduce pro-competition reforms in the telecommunications sector and
increase the supply of informatics-related skills in the five OECS borrowing countries. Specifically, an
independent regional regulatory authority was to be established within two years of project effectiveness
and new sector legislation was to be passed in each country within three years of project effectiveness.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objective was slightly modified due to the revision of the informatics component at Mid-Term
(see section 3.4 below). The revised Project objective was to "support the introduction of pro-competition
reforms in the telecommunications sector of the Participating Countries through, inter-alia, the creation of a
Regional Telecommunications Authority (RTA), and improve the environment for information services."
The change in the objective from training to policy support was approved at the Vice Presidential level; it
was not required that it be brought before the Board.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of three components: (a) Telecommunications Regulatory Framework Modernization;
(b) Pilot for Informatics Training; and (c) Project Management.

(a) Telecommunications Regulatory Framework Modernization Component (Total Cost: US$ 8.5 million)
This component was intended to establish a framework to facilitate sectoral reform, through: (i) designing
new telecommunications legislation in the five countries and an appropriate regional regulatory authority;
(ii) the implementation of proposed changes in regulations and a coherent licensing regime; (iii) OECS
participation in Caribbean-wide radio spectrum management workshop; (iv) undertaking a public
information campaign regarding policy changes; and (v) support to and start-up the regulatory authority,
including procurement of radio spectrum management hardware and application software and training on
licensing, interconnection policy, number allocation, and dispute resolution.

(b) Pilot for Informatics Training (Total Cost: US$ 0.9 million) The original aim of this component was
to increase the number of skilled workers in the informatics area, in anticipation of the higher use of
telecommunications services and greater demand for skills related to value-added services, such as the
Internet. This component was revised as described under section 3.4 below.




                                                      - 2 -

(c) Project Management (Total Cost: US$ 0.8 million)
This component aimed at providing financial support to the OECS Secretariat for project implementation
costs and setting up a Project Management Unit (PMU), and included: (i) monitoring and audit; and (ii)
training and increasing implementation capacity of the OECS Secretariat and other critical public agencies
responsible for implementing and sustaining telecommunications sector reform.

3.4 Revised Components:
During the Mid-Term review, the pilot for informatics training component (b) was significantly altered
from a training scheme for information technology workers to a policy focus. This shift resulted from an
evaluation by the OECS Secretariat, the Bank, and the PMU following discussions with both public and
private training institutions, which concluded that promotion of training as originally envisaged would have
yielded only marginal benefits, given other private and public sector initiatives that had emerged since
project design to provide informatics training in the region.

As a result, component (b)--as agreed between the OECS Secretariat, Project Management Unit,
and the Bank--was renamed Informatics and revised to include the development of national and regional
information and communication technology policy. The revised component included funding for consulting
services for the delivery of a regional and national Information and Communication Technologies (ICT)
policy and strategy.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
In April 1998, the Bank's Quality Assessment Group (QAG) rated the Quality at Entry as satisfactory.
The panel recognized that the project might face implementation difficulties and not achieve all of its
objectives, but concluded that the potential rewards justified taking those risks.

The panel reached its conclusion by assigning high weights to the following elements, considered critical to
the success of the project: (i) the task team's knowledge of the telecommunications and IT sectors, both
globally and in the OECS countries, and the links to the significant potential macro-economic impacts; and
(ii) the appropriateness of the project design, which focused on the right issues and included design
flexibility which was deemed critical given the large number of parties involved and their capacity to
influence project results.

At the time of the project design, the OECS region faced significant and critical deficiencies in
telecommunications. The five countries in the project differed but all shared an expensive and erratic
telephone system that held back development and competitiveness in the services sector. Cable and
Wireless (C&W), a British multinational company, had effectively enjoyed an unregulated monopoly over
telecommunications services among these countries. Minimal regulatory powers were held by governments;
vague, ambiguous, and outdated telecommunications legislation and licenses and agreements were in place;
joint venture arrangements in Grenada, Dominica, and St. Kitts & Nevis confused regulator and operator;
and there were low returns to governments in terms of license fees for use of radio spectrum, customs
duties and taxes and use of government property. In some countries, the telecommunications provider
enjoyed a number of regulatory powers which in a liberalized environment would typically be vested in a
regulator. A special challenge in the case of the OECS was to address all of these issues with far more
limited financial and human resources than most countries due to their extremely small scale. A regional
approach was agreed by the Heads of Government of the participating countries as a more effective
approach to addressing the power of the incumbent monopolies and establishing a competent regional
regulatory authority tailored to a newly liberalized environment.




                                                      - 3 -

This project aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives of promoting sustainable,
private sector-led economic diversification by providing a supportive environment for promising, newly
emerging service industries, improving the provision of public services to the population and strengthening
the broader functioning of the public sector. The project was conceived to address the regulatory and
policy constraints in the telecommunications sector. By creating an independent regulator and passing new
legislation that encouraged competition in the sector, the region hoped to reduce communications costs and
increase access to telecommunications services, which, in turn, would give the private sector a tool to better
compete in global markets and develop a more skilled work force.




4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1    The objective and performance targets of the project were met or surpassed and the overall
outcome of the project is satisfactory. This rating reflects the significant transformation, changes and
impact brought by this project through the introduction of competition and the establishment of a
functioning and competent regional telecommunications authority, the Eastern Caribbean
Telecommunications Authority (ECTEL), which became the world's first regional telecommunications
authority. This rating is largely influenced by the impact of component (a), modernization of the
regulatory framework, which represented 83% of total project cost.

4.1.2    A new telecom law was prepared by ECTEL consultants--identical for each member country. As
each country went through the approval process, minor variations were introduced, but each member
country emerged with a modern telecom legal framework that is completely consistent with that of the other
OECS countries.

Another early success of the project was the renegotiation of the exclusive arrangements the incumbent
(C&W) had on all telecommunication services, due to run only until 2000 in St Lucia but as long as 2024
in St Kitts and Nevis. The ECTEL treaty was signed in 2000 by the five OECS countries, and new
telecommunications acts were gazetted beginning with St Kitts in June of that year. ECTEL's primary
purposes are to ensure transparent, objective, competitive, and investor-friendly licensing and
regulatory regimes in the 5 member countries, and to act as a forum for the coordination of OECS
telecommunications policies and regulations. At the state level, national telecommunications
regulatory commissions are responsible for implementation of regulations and policies with the
technical assistance of ECTEL.

The Bank supported ECTEL advisors: (1) in the development of renegotiations with the 5 countries on the
monopoly provision of telecom services; (2) working out the details of a price cap plan (details are
presented in the next section). The extended negotiations between C&W and ECTEL resulted in an
agreement to reduce tariffs over the next 2 years by around US$7 million. The Bank also supported
ECTEL to lay the groundwork for issuing the various license for fixed and mobile services, which led to a
substantial increase in competition against C&W. In 2001, the termination of monopoly rights was agreed
in the ECTEL region, with new licenses issued to the first competitors in 2002. The first cellular
competitor started offering services in 2003.

4.1.3 Significant additional positive outcomes include:




                                                     - 4 -

l Increased access to telecommunications services, growth in the mobile market, and competition in other
    services including in the fixed and in the Internet market segments. Under ECTEL's supervision,
    fourteen new entrants were granted licenses to provide fixed and mobile services, with an additional
    114 licenses issued in other areas.
l The average cellular penetration rate in the region increased from 2.5 percent in 2000 to an estimated
    72 percent by the third quarter of 2004. As a result, by the end of 2003, St. Lucia and Grenada were
    among the countries with the highest cellular penetration levels in the Caribbean region, with 77 and 86
    percent respectively, surpassing the regional average of 53 percent. Growth rates of cellular
    subscriptions approximately tripled after the creation of ECTEL (see table below).
l Increases in network capacity and competition among operators caused prices to drop for most
    services. According to the ECICT Impact Assessment report produced by CARANA/USAID, average
    prices for calls from the region to the United States fell by more that 70 percent since the start of the
    liberalization process. From 1998 to 2003, domestic tariffs fell by 47 percent, and mobile prices fell
    by over 50 percent.
l It is estimated that over 500 new jobs were created in the region in the areas of Internet services and
    customer premises equipment services, along with additional jobs in companies that gained from C&W
    outsourcing a number of operations.
l Most recently, the project has supported a Price Cap Plan (PCP) Implementation Agreement for C&W
    in the ECTEL Member States. The successful conclusion of price-cap negotiations created significant
    economic benefits for the participating countries by setting the maximum level of prices where C&W
    has a dominant or monopoly advantage. Under the PCP, ECTEL Member States paid as much as 22
    percent less for their fixed-to-fixed local calls from 1 January 2005, with a further 20 percent reduction
    for fixed-to-fixed local calls in December 2005. In the context of the PCP negotiations, a US$ 550,000
    technical assistance contract under the project will result in the first two years in a US$ 7.5m price
    reduction; or a 13.6:1 ratio.


                                                          Cellular Subscribers              Subscriber Growth Rate
                                                            (% population)

                                                         2000                2004          1996-2000       2000-2004

  Dominica                                               1.56                59.57            26             149

  Grenada                                                4.55                85.84            64             108

  Saint Kitts and Nevis                                  2.66                75.92            40             131

  Saint Lucia                                            1.61                76.67            14             163

  St. Vincent and the Grenadines                         2.08                62.16            70             134

                                Average OECS             2.49                72.03            43             137




4.1.4    A recent report from the Bank' Quality Assessment Group (OECS COUNTRIES: Country
Program Quality Enhancement Review, 12/16/2004) highlighted this project as an example of gains that
can result from regional integration when supported by political will. The report recognized the uniqueness
of this project with the creation of the first Regional Telecommunications Authority (ECTEL), the break-up
of a long standing monopoly, the entry of new service providers, and the rapid expansion of access along
with sharp reductions in costs of services. Finally, the report acknowledged that the impact of this project



                                                       - 5 -

reached beyond the telecommunications sector, by reducing impediments to delivering other business
services.

4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Telecommunications Regulatory Framework Modernization
ICR rating: Satisfactory

(i) Implementing proposed changes in regulations, designing new telecommunications legislation, and
establishing a coherent licensing regime and an appropriate regional regulatory authority: The major
output of this sub-component was the signature in May 2000 of the ECTEL treaty which created the
world's first regional telecommunications authority. New Telecommunications Acts in each country
rescinded the C&W's rights to be the monopoly provider of telecommunications services in the region.
Pursuant to the Act a series of regulations was enacted in the ECTEL states to cover several areas
including interconnection, tariffs, fees, licensing, spectrum management, private networks, numbering and
terminal equipment.

    Key milestones included:

    2000          The ECTEL Treaty is Signed (May).
                  ECTEL is officially launched (October).
                  The first new Telecommunications Act gazetted in St. Kitts.
    2001          The first National Telecommunications Regulatory Commission (NTRC) established.
                  The Agreement terminating monopoly rights is signed.
                  The Agreement on rate determination process is signed.
                  New licenses are granted to C&W.
    2002          The ECTEL Secretariat is launched.
                  New regulations are established.
                  First Interconnection Agreement is signed.
    2003          First new licenses are issued to competitors.
                  Launch of services by the first cellular operator.
                  Installation of hardware and application software for the RSMMS.
                  Ministerial retreat to deliver Mission Statements for ECTEL and NTRCs.
    2004          The Price Cap Agreement with five countries and the incumbent operator is signed.


    (ii) OECS participation in Caribbean-wide radio spectrum management workshop: A seminar was
    organized by the PMU in consultation with the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) in
    Grenada in 1999. The seminar attracted 50 people from Ministers to policy advisors and technologists
    from Caribbean countries, in an effort to coordinate regulation and spectrum allocation in the
    Caribbean. The result was agreement to proceed on a regional basis with a complete spectrum
    management system that would enable authorities to assure that allocation of frequencies would be
    done in accordance with ITU guidelines, and would also be used to evaluate new applications for
    potential interference with existing services, compliance with national regulations and cross-border
    frequency coordination (detailed description of spectrum management system below in paragraph iv).

    (iii) Undertaking public information campaign regarding policy changes: The public awareness
    campaign raised considerable attention and interest regarding new telecommunications policy and
    regulatory issues. The campaign included media workshops for ECTEL and NTRC staff, community
    meetings in ECTEL member states, presentations to secondary schools students in all ECTEL member



                                                       - 6 -

    states, and radio and television shows.

    (iv) Supporting and start-up financing for the regulatory authority, including spectrum management
    and other needed equipment and training on licensing, interconnection policy, number allocation,
    and dispute resolution:

    Telecom Regulatory Authority

    In 2000, a Memorandum of Understanding was prepared to transfer the PMU functions, as well as
    assets and equipment, to ECTEL from the OECS Secretariat, while the OECS Secretariat retained
    legal responsibility for the project. While the individual NTRCs of each country retained the legal
    mandate to regulate the sector in each country, in practice they leaned heavily on ECTEL because of
    the greater technical and regulatory knowledge residing in the latter.

ECTEL has adequate financing from independent sources, can perform its functions independently from the
political authorities (Ministries) in the Borrowing countries, and is rapidly developing the necessary
technical expertise. ECTEL is financed from spectrum and license fees from service providers, royalties
and other income as the Council of Ministers may decide, all of which is provided for in the
Telecommunications Acts of each country and the ECTEL Treaty. A fee collection mechanism is in place
to ensure timely deposit to ECTEL from the member countries. A Budget Advisory Committee is in place
to review both expenditures and projected revenues in light of the annual work program. ECTEL is based
in St. Lucia.

In 2002, ECTEL and the participating governments reached agreement on a minimum staffing structure to
adequately support the NTRCs and ECTEL. Technical expertise resides mostly within ECTEL. All staffs
at ECTEL and the NTRCs are on service contracts: the Managing Director, 3 years, professional staff, 2
years, and support staff, 1 year. ECTEL is divided functionally into divisions for legal, engineering,
spectrum management, IT, economics and finance. Board members are appointed by member country
Ministers of Communications following Cabinet consultation, for 3 year terms, and must have training in
law, economics, finance, or other relevant profession. As a result, ECTEL, although a new organization,
satisfies most internationally-accepted criteria for a competent telecom regulatory agency. ECTEL, with
the help of the Bank, is enhancing its capacity on an ongoing basis.


Radio Spectrum Monitoring and Management System (RSMMS)

With regard to the RSMMS, despite the delays encountered throughout the procurement and
implementation, the hardware and enabling software was acquired, tested, training provided, and is being
used satisfactorily for frequency management and monitoring.

After intensive supervision, the RSMMS was brought on line in a fully satisfactory manner about 12
months later than expected. The delay was due to the complexity of 5 countries procuring an intricate
system, delays in issuing the Letter of Credit, and then additional delay on the part of the contractor in
certifying acceptance. These slippages led to the extension of the project closing date; the project closed on
12/31/04, whereas it had originally been scheduled for 9/30/02. ECTEL lost revenue as a result of these
delays; if the spectrum management equipment had been installed in a timely manner, ECTEL would have
had a greater accuracy in assessing spectrum fees and could have issued invoices faster.

Technical training of the ECTEL and NTRC staff was arranged through relevant courses, study trips,


                                                       - 7 -

training by the equipment supplier. The RSMMS is now fully operational. The development impact and
benefits have been positive and include:

l timely allocation and assignment of frequencies on all the 5 member states;
l monitoring compliance in accordance to ITU regulations;
l limited complaints in terms of illegal radio activities;
l pro-active management by ECTEL and the NTRCs to ensure that there is no radio interference among
    the service providers; and
l active coordination by ECTEL on cross-border frequency issues.


(b) Informatics

During implementation, both the Bank and the Borrower agreed that a large number of private firms and
educational institutions had begun delivering quality training to informatics professions, obviating the need
for this component, and consequently the component was changed at Mid-Term. Instead, two policy
strategies were developed: (i) a national and regional ICT Policy and Strategy, and (ii) an investment
promotion strategy to increase investments in ICT including public-private partnerships. These policy
strategies were officially endorsed by the OECS Secretariat and have become the reference policy for each
of the participating countries ICT Action Plans.


(c) Project Management

The PMU provided critical support in implementing the project. It became the significant facilitating
mechanism in the rapid transformation of the sector. After ECTEL was formed, the PMU moved from the
OECS Secretariat to ECTEL. The staff hired in the PMU was adequately qualified and were successful in
implementing the project. As such, on balance, project management performance is assessed as satisfactory
.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
While it was not possible to calculate an ERR, Annex 3 presents a rough estimate of the economic benefits
of some activities supported under the project. It is estimated that the benefit from lower fixed-line tariffs
alone amount to US$20 million per year. Overall economic benefits will be considerably larger because of
the rapid spread and price reductions in other market segments including mobile and Internet which took
place in large part due to activities under the project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Taking the factors below into account, overall institutional development impact was substantial:

l The first Regional Telecommunications Authority, the Eastern Caribbean Telecommunication
    Authority (ECTEL), which includes Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts & Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent
    & the Grenadines, was established;
l New telecommunications acts were passed in all member countries;
l National Telecommunications Regulatory Commissions were created in all member countries;
l The RSMMS enhanced the Borrowers' ability to monitor the frequency spectrum, detect unlicensed
    operators, and also enhanced agency revenues. However, the system was completed later than



                                                      - 8 -

     envisioned.
l Monopoly rights were rescinded, and new entrants were granted licenses.



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 The incumbent provider, C&W, held a monopoly on telecommunications services in the region
before the project went into effect. C&W tried to delay the introduction of competition. During
implementation, the monopoly provider challenged the early termination of its exclusivity agreements, the
process of consultations with respect to tariffs, and the issuance of price caps.

5.1.2    Alternate funding for technical assistance became available for certain activities. Thus, ECTEL
determined during project implementation that Bank-funded consultants were not required for regulatory
functions, such as numbering plans. This decision was agreed to by the project team given that the ITU and
other regional agencies could provide this technical support.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
All Governments demonstrated consistent support, ownership, and commitment to the project. During the
liberalization process all of the Prime Ministers provided time, vision, and unified support, particularly
during challenges and difficulties with the incumbent operator.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The complexity of having five countries, the OECS Secretariat and ECTEL involved in the project was
efficiently coordinated by the PMU through good project management and communications with the
NTRCs.

5.4 Costs and financing:
A Japanese PHRD Trust Fund (JPN 29611) of US$ 0.44 million was used to finance studies and training
for project preparation.

The original project cost was estimated at US$ 10.10 million. Of this amount, US$ 5.95 million was to be
financed through IBRD loans and IDA credits totaling US$ 3.6 million and SDR 1.8 million (US$ 2.35
million equivalent), respectively. The five OECS countries involved were to participate equally by
contributing US$ 0.8 million and borrowing US$ 1.2 million, with a split of 50 percent IDA credit and 50
percent IBRD loan, with the exception of St. Kitts & Nevis which did not have access to IDA credit and
borrowed the full amount through an IBRD loan.

While actual project costs were over budget by US$ 0.75 million or 7.4 percent, the actual portion of loan
and credit used was under budget by US$ 0.42 million or 5.4 percent. The following is the actual project
cost and related loan/credit amount by component (in US$ million equivalent).



 Component                                                 Loan/Credit     Project Costs
                                                           US$ million      US$ million

 A Telecommunications Regulatory Framework                    5.38            10.14

 B. Informatics                                               0.11             0.11




                                                      - 9 -

 C. Project Management                                         0.14              0.60

                                                   Total       5.63              10.85




6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the benefits achieved is likely. ECTEL is functioning effectively, and has established itself
as a significant force in the sector, advising member countries on issues concerning fixed and mobile
cellular licenses, numbering and interconnection. Having achieved the benefits detailed above, it is very
unlikely that the OECS would backtrack on the reforms realized thus far. Liberalization of the sector has
brought in powerful private firms which have invested large sums, and which are moving rapidly to expand
their customer base and introduce new services. These firms, and other private actors, are a powerful voice
for continued reform. And the transformation of the sector has brought lower prices and improved service
to tens of thousands of customers, who are unlikely to tolerate a deterioration of service

OECS governments strongly support telecommunications reforms and have expressed their satisfaction
with ECTEL's role and efforts in liberalizing the sector. Support is further demonstrated by the member
countries' commitment to a new project to be financed by the World Bank (see section 10). Further, other
OECS countries, including British Virgins Islands, Anguilla and Antigua have expressed interest in joining
ECTEL.

As noted above in section 4.2, ECTEL has adequate financing from independent sources, can perform its
functions independently from the political authorities (Ministries) in the Borrowing countries, and is rapidly
developing the necessary technical expertise.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
    ECTEL has been performing regular operations since its creation in October 2000.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
As described earlier, quality at entry was satisfactory. The project was well-timed to support and facilitate
the reform of the sector. Governments' and OECS Secretariat support for sector reform, evident during
preparation and identification, remained strong throughout the project.

The project team succeeded in designing the initial ECTEL Treaty and regional approach to
telecommunications reform, and supported negotiations to break the incumbent monopoly in the sector.
This helped set the stage for profound reforms in the sector. During all stages of the project the Bank
maintained a close dialogue with both the OECS Secretariat and ECTEL, and ensured that the project
objectives were directly in line with the client's goals for the sector. The staff mix and its continuity during
project preparation, appraisal and implementation were important for keeping the Bank's client relationship
productive and effective in resolving urgent issues.

7.2 Supervision:
The supervision of this project was satisfactory. In August 1999, the Bank's QAG performed a Quality of
Supervision Assessment and gave an overall rating of satisfactory. QAG's assessment was based on



                                                     - 10 -

detailed ratings of highly satisfactory for the focus on development impact, and satisfactory ratings for
supervision of fiduciary aspects, adequacy of supervision input and processes, and realism of project
performance ratings.

In discussions with the OECS Secretariat, the PMU and ECTEL, staff and management praised the extent
of the harmonious and fruitful working relationship which the Bank maintained with all parties during the
project. The continued efforts on procurement and disbursement of ex-post reviews in supervision missions
was particularly recognized and appreciated, as were the Bank efforts to keep open channels of
communications with an increasing number of donor agencies becoming active in ICT development in the
region. Hands-on training was provided on procurement during supervision missions. During project
implementation, several other donors became involved in ICT-related programs in the region, and the issue
of donor coordination and the need, and mechanisms, for scaling-up ICT-related activities was frequently
discussed with both the OECS Secretariat and ECTEL.

Donor coordination was adequate. The Bank made efforts to appraise other donors, notably USAID, the
EU, and CARICOM, of ongoing investments and activities under the project. The need to more effectively
combine forces with other donors to achieve impact and sustainability is being addressed in the follow-on
Telecommunications and ICT Development project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Taking the above factors into account, overall Bank performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The OECS Secretariat
ensured that the PMU staff was appointed before project appraisal. Prior to negotiations, the Borrower
developed a detailed project implementation plan and a complete package of Terms of Reference for
consultancy services. The commitment to prepare the project really came first and foremost from the
political leaders of the five countries.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government implementation performance was satisfactory. The project had the full commitment of the
OECS member countries and was viewed as a flagship project by the OECS Secretariat. Continuity of
staff, both in the OECS Secretariat, the PMU and ECTEL, fostered a close working relationship and a
productive channel of communication between the Bank, ECTEL and the OECS Secretariat.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the PMU was satisfactory. The PMU implemented its tasks with support and oversight of
the OECS Secretariat. When ECTEL was established in May 2000, the functions of the PMU were
transferred to ECTEL because most activities in the project related to telecommunication reform. PMU
staff became ECTEL employees. There were two extensions of the closing date beyond September 2002;
the first to December 2003 and the second to December 2004. Both were to allow disbursement for the
high-priority spectrum management equipment contract.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory. Project audits were all unqualified (clean) on the project's
financial statements, internal controls, statement of requests for reimbursement, and special account
operations, and all audit reports were considered acceptable to the Bank.




                                                      - 11 -

8. Lessons Learned

8.1   Small countries can benefit from sharing the fixed costs of regulatory institutions. Normal practice
      worldwide is for telecommunications policy and regulatory issues to be addressed on a national
      basis. A regional approach was seen as viable since the telecommunications issues facing each island
      were similar. Also, there was firm commitment from the OECS Heads of Government to liberalize
      telecommunications services and address telecommunications regionally.

8.2   A competent spectrum management and monitoring system is necessary for an expanding, modern
      telecommunications sector. Spectrum management and monitoring prior to the project was
      rudimentary, and would not have been sufficient to support the expansion of wireless services that
      occurred. The increased capabilities accorded by the RSMMS have become essential during rapid
      growth in the use of the spectrum.

8.3   Coordination of a regional project is complex and stretches very thinly both project management
      and supervision resources. Five Ministers of Communications, five Prime Ministers, and two
      international organizations (the OECS Secretariat and ECTEL) were involved at critical junctures in
      project implementation. Even with the best intentions, there were delays particularly in obtaining
      signatures from the five countries on the two extensions of the closing date.

8.4   The financing and retention of high caliber technical advisors is critical for successful
      negotiations with dominant operators. The Bank's TA allowed the OECS Secretariat and ECTEL
      to hire top-notch consultants to advise them in various negotiations establishing the new regulatory
      regime, for instance, in reaching an agreement on a new Price Regulation Regime with Cable and
      Wireless, formally signed in July 2004 and covering a four-year period.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The OECS concurs generally with the report. This has been a significant project in terms of its impact on
the participating states in repositioning their telecommunications capacities and, generally, placing the
countries in a position to achieve positive economic and social outcomes.
The project has provided the OECS Secretariat with an important learning experience and has built
capacity to implement similar initiatives.

(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no other partners.

10. Additional Information

ECTEL has been requested by its members to proceed with a new project to be financed by the World
Bank. Building on the first stage of reform started by the Telecommunications Reform project, the
proposed Telecommunications and ICT Development Project aims at improving access, quality
and use of telecommunications and ICT services within the OECS. It will promote universal
access to ICT services and foster the utilization of broadband applications to achieve economic
and social development. The project was approved by the Board of the Bank on May 12, 2005.



                                                      - 12 -

In addition, in cooperation with the European Commission, the Bank is bringing together
policymakers, key stakeholders and donors from the region to discuss the findings and
recommendations produced by the infoDev program on "Improving Competitiveness and
Increasing Economic Diversification in the Caribbean: the Role of ICT." As a by-product of these
meetings, informal donor meetings are being held to map key steps to improve coordination.




                                              - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:

Indicator/Matrix                                                                         Actual/Latest Estimate
PRO-COMPETITION REFORMS IN THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
- Competitive prices for critical bandwidth and data intensive telecom services            Tariffs to the US dropped from EC4.90
                                                                                           to   EC1.65    (US$     0.61)   over   the
                                                                                           1998-2003 period, while domestic tariffs
                                                                                           fell     from      EC0.17/minute        to
                                                                                           EC0.09/minute over the same period.
                                                                                           During the same period, mobile tariffs
                                                                                           decreased by over 50%.
                                                                                           Under the terms of this PCP Agreement,
                                                                                           C&W fixed line customers in the
                                                                                           ECTEL Member States pay as much as
                                                                                           22% less for their fixed-to-fixed local
                                                                                           calls from January 1st 2005, with a
                                                                                           further 20% reduction for fixed-to-fixed.

                                                                                           The agreement also makes provision for
                                                                                           additional benefits to consumers ­
                                                                                           average reductions of 10 cents per
                                                                                           minute for fixed-to-mobile calls by 1
                                                                                           December 2005.         Residential fixed
                                                                                           customers will also receive 60 free
                                                                                           minutes of local fixed-to-fixed calls in
                                                                                           the evenings and on weekends with
                                                                                           effect from 1 December 2004.
  - Development of cost-oriented methodologies for services (% of services priced
  using                                                                                    Many segments of the communications
    cost-based methodology)                                                                market now see their tariffs subject to
                                                                                           competitive forces (notably in the mobile
                                                                                           segment) and do not need to follow
                                                                                           cost-based methodologies for the pricing
                                                                                           of these services.

                                                                                           For    regulated   services,    the  PCP
                                                                                           Agreement of 2004 defines a cost-based
                                                                                           methodology that provides the based to
                                                                                           price such services. The PCP Agreement
                                                                                           list 18 categories of services and include
                                                                                           over 200 rate elements.



Output Indicators:

Indicator/Matrix                                                                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Establishment of a Regional Regulatory Authority:                                        Implemented.
- Submission of a plan within on year of effectiveness                                   - Done in 1999 (within 1 year).
- Legislation establishing the RTA in at least 3 countries within 2 yrs of effectiveness - Done in 2000 (within 2 years).
IMPROVED TELECOM REGULATORY FRAMEWORK:                                                   Implemented.
- Any newly-negotiated license consistent with new framework                             - Done, first new licenses issued in
- Review of current legislation within 1 year of effectiveness                            2001.
- New sector legislation passed in each country within 3 years of effectiveness          - Done within 1 year of effectiveness.
                                                                                         - Done within 3 years of effectiveness.
IMPROVED CAPACITY TO ENFORCE LICENSES TO USE RADIO SPECTRUM
- Reduction in spectrum allocation complaints by 50% within 1 year of effectiveness      - Complaints are investigated on a



                                                             - 14 -

                                                                                             timely basis. Mechanism to do so is
                                                                                             now in place. NTRCs were not
                                                                                             monitoring these 1 year of
                                                                                             effectiveness because equipment was

                                                                                             not installed and complaints went
                                                                                             directly to Ministers.
- Improved performance of the issuance of licenses according to ITU standards
                                                                                           - Done in 2002, with standard,
                                                                                            published criteria.
INFORMATICS:
- Development of an Information & Communication Technology Strategy and Policy for - Delivered in 2002.
   the project members and OECS region;
- Identification of pilot informatics projects for funding and of investment opportunities - Identification and workshop
                                                                                           delivered in 2002.




                                                               - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
A Telecommunciations Regulatory Framework                    8.50           10.14          119.29
B. Informatics                                               0.85             0.11           12.94
C. Project Management                                        0.75             0.60              80

Total Baseline Cost                                         10.10           10.85
                        Total Project Costs                 10.10           10.85
                  Total Financing Required                  10.10           10.85


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category          ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          2.67              0.00         0.29          0.00         2.96
                                  (2.67)           (0.00)      (0.29)          (0.00)       (2.96)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         3.01          0.00         3.01
  - Consultants                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.49)          (0.00)       (2.49)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          3.48         3.48
   - RTA Salaries & Ops           (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   - Vouchers                     0.00              0.00         0.65          0.00         0.65
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.50)          (0.00)       (0.50)
5. Audits                                                        0.00          0.00         0.00
                                    ()             (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          2.67              0.00         3.95          3.48         10.10
                                  (2.67)           (0.00)      (3.28)          (0.00)       (5.95)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category          ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          3.05             0.00         0.00           0.00        3.05
                                  (3.05)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (3.05)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         3.08           0.00        3.08
  - Consultants                   (0.00)          (0.00)       (2.40)         (0.00)       (2.40)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         4.67           0.00        4.67
   - RTA Salaries & Ops           (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.14)         (0.00)       (0.14)
   - Vouchers



                                                - 16 -

                                               0.00                0.00             0.00              0.00          0.00
                                              (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)
   5. Audits                                   0.00                0.00             0.05              0.00          0.05
                                              (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.04)           (0.00)        (0.04)
       Total                                   3.05                0.00             7.80              0.00         10.85
                                              (3.05)              (0.00)            (2.58)           (0.00)        (5.63)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                          Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                      Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 Bank          Govt.         CoF.         Bank        Govt.      CoF.       Bank  Govt.    CoF.
Project Preparation*                                         0.44                                 0.41                     93.2
A. Telecom Framework             4.80           3.70                      5.38        4.76                 112.1  128.6
B. Informatics                   0.60           0.25                      0.11        0.00                  18.3   0.0
C. Project Management            0.55           0.20                      0.14        0.46                  25.5  230.0

   * Project Preparation includes studies and training financed through a Japanese PHRD Trust Fund (JPN 29611)




                                                               - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An Estimate of Consumer Benefits from Lower Fixed Line Prices

While it was not possible to calculate an ERR, detailed data from St Vincent and the Grenadines on prices,
revenues and subscribers were used to approximate the value to fixed line consumers of lower prices that
have resulted from competition and regulation in the sector. Tariffs to the United States of America
dropped from EC 4.90 to EC1.65 (US$ 0.61) over the 1998-2003 period, while domestic tariffs fell from
EC 0.17/minute to EC 0.09/minute over the same period. In 2003, declines in call charges were
accompanied by a rise in business and residential line rental. However, the savings in domestic call costs
added to the consumer surplus in international calls is estimated to be worth considerably more.

The net savings and surplus to consumers from tariff changes allowing for increased rental over the
1998-2003 period is estimated at EC9.5m/year for St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Estimating similar
benefits as a percentage of GDP for the other islands, this suggests ECTEL-wide benefits of EC 54m
(approximately US$ 20m) per year, in the fixed-line segment alone. Given the considerable consumer
benefits from competitive provision of mobile and Internet services, it is safe to assume that overall benefits
related to the project up to the 2003 period are substantially larger.

In order to consolidate and extend lower prices across the sector, ECTEL negotiated in 2004 a price cap
plan and agreement with the dominant operator. A Price Cap Plan (PCP) sets the maximum level of prices
for certain services offered by a telecommunications company where it has dominant or monopoly
advantage. It does this by imposing constraints on how much the rate for a group of services (or "basket")
can change. The constraints may limit the amount by which the services in a basket can increase in any
given year, or the amount by which the rates for a group of services are expected to be reduced in any given
year. Under a PCP, the company is expected to make annual efficiency gains which are then passed on to
customers in the form of rate reductions. Under a PCP, the company has an incentive to operate as
efficiently as possible, and is given more flexibility to set its rates provided that it complies with the caps
and any required reductions. The price cap process involves calculate the incumbent's current financial
picture and ensure that surpluses in excess of a reasonable return are recognized and appropriately
allocated to consumers in the form of lower prices.

Under the negotiated PCP, residential access line rates are specified and can neither go up nor down during
the four years of the plan. Business access line rates can only increase by inflation in any given year. The
remaining regulated services must be reduced, on average, by an amount representing expected productivity
improvements (in this case 2.5 percent per year), less inflation. International and mobile services are not
included in the PCP as they are sufficiently competitive that they do not require regulation.

Under the terms of this agreement, Cable & Wireless fixed line customers in the ECTEL Member States
should pay as much as 22 percent less for their fixed-to-fixed local calls from January 1st, 2005, with a
further 20 percent reduction for fixed-to-fixed local calls coming in December 2005. Local calls on the
fixed network decreased from 9 EC cents (peak period), 8 (off-peak period) and 6 cents (weekends) to 7
cents, 5 cents, and 5 cents respectively on January 1st, 2005. Off-peak and Weekend rates will further
decrease to 4 cents and 4 cents respectively on 1 December 2005.




                                                      - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/20/1996                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SENIOR COMPETITIVENESS
                                             SPECIALIST (1).


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/09/1998                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SECTOR LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); TELECOM LAWYER
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1).
              04/20/1998                6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FMS (1);
                                             COUNSEL (1); CONSULTANT
                                             (1).

 Supervision
              03/19/1999                3    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); TELECOM LAWYER
                                             (1).
              01/03/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             INFRASTRUC.ECONOMIST
                                             (1); INFORMATICS
                                             SPECIALIST (1).
              04/19/2000                1    TASK MANAGER (1).                S               S
              04/19/2000                1    TASK MANAGER (1).                S               S
              02/22/2002                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S              HS
                                             ECONOMIST (1); TELECOM
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1).
              02/25/2002                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S              HS
                                             TELECOM SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1).
              02/25/2002                1    TASK MANAGER (1).                S              HS
              10/10/2003                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S              HS
                                             TELECOM SPECIALIST (2)
              10/10/2003                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S              HS
                                             TELECOM SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); JR. PROFESSIONAL
                                             ASSOC (1).



                                              - 19 -

               10/08/2004              3    TEAM LEADER (1); TEAM             S    HS
                                            ECONOMIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1).

 ICR
               03/28/2005             2     TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                            (1).



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               45                          185
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    31                          127
  Supervision                            105                           488
  ICR                                       8                           40
  Total                                  189                           840




                                            - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                 Rating
   Macro policies                              H       SU    M        N     NA
   Sector Policies                             H       SU    M        N     NA
   Physical                                    H       SU    M        N     NA
   Financial                                   H       SU    M        N     NA
   Institutional Development                   H       SU    M        N     NA
   Environmental                               H       SU    M        N     NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                  H       SU    M        N     NA
            Gender                             H       SU    M        N     NA
            Other (Please specify)             H       SU    M        N     NA
   Private sector development                  H       SU    M        N     NA
   Public sector management                    H       SU    M        N     NA
   Other (Please specify)                      H       SU    M        N     NA


The Physical rating refers primarily to the Radio Spectrum Monitoring and Management System.




                                                           - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

A. Project Supervision Documents

   Project Appraisal Document, OECS Telecommunications Reform Project (1998)
   Project Supervision Reports (PSRs)
   All Back to Office Reports, including Aide Memoirs


B. Other Bank and Project Documents
   Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of the World Bank Group for the Eastern Caribbean
   Sub-Region (2001)
   OECS COUNTRIES: Country Program Quality Enhancement Review (12/16/2004)
   Project Implementation Plan
   Detailed project costs and disbursement tables
   Financial and Procurement capacity assessments of OECS Secretariat.

C. Third Party Documents
   Audit Reports of the Project
   New Telecommunications Acts, OECS Telecommunications Reform Project participating
   countries (2000)
   Towards an OECS Development Strategy, OECS Secretariat (2000)
   ICT Assessments for Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and
   the Grenadines, USAID/CARANA Corporation (2002)
   Final Report ICT Policy and Strategic Plan and Investment Promotion Strategy and
   Implementation Plan, GOPA Consultants (June, 2002)
   USAID ECTIC Project ­ Impact Assessment: ECTEL States/OECS Telecommunications
   Liberalization Program (2004)
   Price Caps Implementation Agreement between Cable and Wireless and ECTEL (July 30,
   2004)
   OECS: Towards a New Agenda for Growth, The World Bank (2005).




                                             - 23 -

- 24 -

