Report No. PID5165
Project Name                     OECS (Organization of Eastern Caribbean ... @
States) Telecommunications Reform Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                           Private Sector Development
Project ID                       ILPA35730
Borrower(s)                      Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts & Nevis,
St. Lucia, St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Implementing Agency:
OECS Secretariat
P.O. Box 179, Castries, St. Lucia
Contact: Mr. Randy Cato
Director, Economic Affairs Division, OECS
Secretariat
Tel. (758) 452-2537/8
Fax (758) 453-1628
Environment Category             C
PID Updated                      January 28, 2002
Project Appraisal                February 9, 1998
Board Date                       June 4, 1998
A. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
The Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) is facing the
challenge of improving competitiveness to permit private sector growth and
diversification. In particular, the OECS governments are eager to alleviate
telecommunications sector constraints on competitiveness and to take
advantage of the vast potential of the information technology sub-sector,
including use of the Internet as a medium to serve the general population. To
this end, the OECS governments agree on the need to address critical
deficiencies in both the legal and institutional aspects of the
telecommunications framework.
Participating countries intend to reform the telecommunications sector
with an ambitious program that includes regulatory policy and tariff reform, and
revision of telecommunications concessions within the region. Several companies
have tried to participate in various competing lines of business but have met
with mixed success because of the uneven playing field that exists in the
sector. In this noncompetitive environment, prices charged by incumbent
monopolies for critical bandwidth and data intensive telecommunications services
are in excess of those prices in countries with competition in the
telecommunications sector.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVE
The objective of the project is to introduce pro-competition reforms in
the telecommunications sector and increase the supply of informatics-related



skills in the five OECS borrowing countries. Specifically, an independent
regional regulatory authority is to be established within two years of project
effectiveness and new sector legislation is to be passed in each country within
three years of project effectiveness.
Key performance indicators will be:
- Competitive prices for critical bandwidth and data intensive
telecommunications services
- Development of cost-oriented methodologies for pricing telecommunications
services
- Increased number of trained informatics specialists
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The project will consist of three main components:
1) Telecommunications Regulatory Framework Modernization: Support to establish
a framework to facilitate sectoral reform, including:
a) implementing proposed changes in regulations, designing new
telecommunications legislation, and
b) establishing a coherent licensing regime and an appropriate regional
regulatory authority;
c) OECS participation in Caribbean-wide radio spectrum management workshop;
d) undertaking public information campaign regarding policy changes;
e) supporting and start-up financing for the regulatory authority, including
spectrum management and other needed equipment and training.
2) Pilot for Informatics Training: Support to increase informatics training for
current and potential workers.
a) Technical assistance for training needs survey.
b) A demand-based voucher system to provide a well-focused and limited subsidy
for informatics training. Trainee/employer would contribute a portion of the
total training costs. The voucher system would have:
- clearly defined eligibility criteria to identify individual recipients of the
voucher;
- clearly defined mechanism for the actual selection of individuals;
- clearly defined eligibility criteria to identify suppliers of informatics
training; and
- partial pre-allocation of voucher funds among participating OECS countries
(together with a non-pre-allocated amount so as to encourage competition among
OECS countries for these funds).
3) Project Management: Financial support to the OECS Secretariat for project
implementation costs including:
a) monitoring and audit; and
b) training and increasing implementation capacity of the OECS Secretariat and
other critical public agencies responsible for implementing and sustaining
telecommunications sector reform.
D. PROJECT FINANCING
-2-



IDA:                                     US$2,400,000
IBRD:                                    US$3,600,000
Governments' Counterpart:                US$4,000,000
Private Sector:                            US$200,000
Total Project Cost:                        US$10,200,000
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
In accordance with a decision by the OECS Heads of State, the OECS
Secretariat will be the implementing agency for the project. A project
management unit (PMU) will be established within the OECS Secretariat and will
be responsible for managing regional coordination and project supervision. In
particular, the PMU will supervise specialized consulting firms hired to prepare
options for regulatory updating and harmonization and to establish a regional
telecommunications authority for the OECS region. The PMU will also coordinate a
Regional Telecommunications Policy Committee that would include public officials
empowered to make regional decisions on behalf of each country. In addition, a
separate management unit will be set up in the OECS Educational Reform Unit for
the implementation of the pilot component for informatics training.
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The efforts of the project will be accompanied by ongoing economic
dialogue, undertaken together with the Caribbean Development Bank, supporting
private sector development and trade reform. Further, at least three of the
countries (St. Lucia, Grenada, and Dominica) are undertaking educational reforms
which will reinforce the gains made through this project as, in the long term,
shortage of trainable labor will be a major constraint without improvements in
basic and secondary education.
G. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits from the telecommunications regulatory framework modernization
will accrue to telecommunications service consumers and providers in
participating OECS countries. Consumers will benefit from increased choice and
competition in the provision of services. The new legislation will also provide
consumer protection and the possibility for consumers to take their complaints
to the regulator in case an operator does not take adequate corrective action.
Businesses for which long distance telecommunications and data communications
are important intermediate inputs, such as informatics and other service
exporters, will benefit from increased price and quality competition. Incumbent
and prospective telecommunications providers and governments will benefit from
the modernization of telecommunications legislation to cover new technologies
and from the upgrading of OECS regulatory capacity. Private operators of
telecommunications services will benefit from knowing the rules for tariff
adjustments, interconnection, fair competition, licensing, etc., and thus be
encouraged to invest and expand services. Without effective spectrum
management, spectrum use would be chaotic and other private firms would be
reluctant to invest in spectrum-using equipment and services. Greater investor
confidence in the objectivity and stability of the newly-created
telecommunications regulatory authority, combined with more competitive rates,
is expected to lead to greater foreign and domestic investment. License fees or
other payments required of service providers will generate public savings for
each country.
-3-



The key project risk is a possible delay in the drafting and enactment of
the legislation to establish the Regional Telecommunications Authority. If some
countries lag in this process, the other countries are likely to exert pressure
on them to move the process forward. This risk is mitigated through the regular
meetings among the Heads of OECS governments and their already-stated commitment
to coordinate telecommunications sector reform. There is also a risk that the
individual countries and the OECS Secretariat lack the necessary implementation
capacity. To address this, the establishment of the Project Management Units
will provide the needed resources to the OECS Secretariat to implement the
project.
H. POVERTY CATEGORY
This project does not have direct poverty objectives. It will, however,
promote formal sector employment growth and will support provision of training,
hence creating economic opportunity and helping provide people with skills to
take advantage of these. The employment growth would likely come in sectors
with strong participation by women, thus generating benefits to families usually
associated with women's access to resources.
I. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
This project will not support major construction. The focus of the project
will be institutional and human resource development. The project is not
expected to have any direct environmental impact.
J. PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES
The relevant program objective category would be Telecommunications Reform.
Contact Point:
Robert Schware
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-0794
Fax No.: (202) 522-3001
For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending February 2, 2002
- 4 -



