Page  1
August 31, 2001
The Right Honorable
Dr. Denzil Douglas
Prime Minister and Minister of Finance
Office of the Primer Minister
Government Headquarters
Church Street
P.O. Box 186
Basseterre, St. Kitts and Nevis
OECS Telecommunications Reform Project
(Loan 4336-SC)
Amendment Letter
Dear Mr. Primer Minister:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and St. Kitts and Nevis (the Borrower) (the Loan Agreement) 
dated June 8, 1998, for the above-captioned Project, and your request of April 2, 
2001.  We, therefore, propose to amend the Loan Agreement by replacing, in its 
entirety, Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement  by the new Schedule 1 detailed below: 
"SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated
     % of 
(Expressed in  Expenditures
Category
Dollars)     
to be Financed
(1)   Goods 
   281,600
20%
(2)   Consultants'
services and 
Training
   666,000
20%
(3)   Audits
    42,000
20%
(4)   Operating 
costs
   206,400
100% of expenditures incurred 
from the Effective Date until 
October 8, 2001; and
50% of expenditures incurred
from October 8, 2001 until the
completion of the Project
(5)   Unallocated
     4,000
TOTAL
1,200,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding an amount equal to 
$120,000, may be made before that date but after April 22, 1998 or a date twelve 
months before the date of this Agreement, whichever is later; and
(b)
goods for the RTA, unless such entity has been established in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower shall have become a member thereof.
Page  2
3.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Audits" means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of Project audits and RTA compliance audits; and
(b)
the term "Operating costs" means expenditures incurred by the Borrower 
for the management of the Project, including salaries of non-consultant personnel 
employed by the PMU (Project Manager, Accountant, Administrative Assistant, Office 
Cleaner and Clerical Assistant), travel and meeting costs and per diem, office space 
rental, maintenance of facilities, office supplies and stationery and utilities which 
would not have been incurred absent the Project.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for training; (b) under contracts 
for: (i) goods costing less than $50,000; (ii)  services of consulting firms costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (iii) services of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower."
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
both originals  of  this letter  in the spaces provided below, and returning one to 
us.   The provisions set forth in this amendment letter shall enter into effect as of 
the date of this letter upon receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed 
by you.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Director
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
By /s/ Denzil Douglas
Authorized Representative
Date:
September 21, 2001
cc:
Mr. George Goodwin, Acting Director General - OECS 
Mr. Donnie De Freitas, Project Manager - OECS
Mr. Randolph Cato, Director, Economic Affairs Division - OECS
