Document of .
The World Bank                         J       --
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2374a-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TIIE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANTK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PROGRAM LOAN
TO TFE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
October 19, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
October 1976 to March 1977
US $1.00   =   Turkish Lira (TL) 16.50
TL  1.00   =   US                $0.061
March 1977 to September 1977
US $1.00   =   TL  17.50
TL  1.00   =   US $0.057
September 1977 to March 1978
US $1.00   -   TL  19.25
TL  1.00   =   US $0.052
March 1978 to date
US $1.00   =   TL  25.00
TL  1.00       US $0.040
FISCAL YEAR
March 1 to February 28
ABBREVIATIONS
CLA     -     Convertible Lira Accounts
SEE     -     State Economic Enterprise
CMEA    -     Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
IGSAS   -     Istanbul Gubre Sanayii AS
TSKB    -     Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY - PROGRAM LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Turkey.
Amount:             US$150 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:              Seventeen years including four years grace,
at 7.35 percent per annum.
Project
Description: 1. Financing of high-priority imports to assist fuller
utilization of productive capacity in agriculture and
industry as well as to meet the import needs of exporters.
For agriculture: plant protection materials and fertilizer
raw materials (not less than $40 million). For industry:
steel products, tin and tinplate, copper, aluminum, petro-
chemicals and other chemicals (up to $60 million); spare
parts for manufacturing industries (not less than $20
million). For the import needs of exporters, under a
recently established replenishment scheme (not less than
$30 million).
2. Private sector firms would receive at least $50 million
worth of imports.
3. There are no special project risks, except that Turkish
administrative arrangements in respect of import licen-
sing, procurement and withdrawal of loan proceeds could
slow down disbursements.
Estimated
Disbursements:                          US$ Millions
Bank FY  1979                 1980
Annual:                90.0                60.0
Cumulative:            90.0              150.0
Rate of Return:   Not applicable.
Appraisal
Report:           None.  This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal
Report.
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be usod by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED PROGRAM
LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
program loan to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of $150.0 million.
The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with
interest at 7.35 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report (No. 1272-TU) entitled "Country Economic Memo-
randum - Turkey" dated October 21, 1976, was circulated to the Executive
Directors on November 2, 1976. The economic situation subsequently deterio-
rated, culminating in a serious balance-of-payments crisis and rapid infla-
tion. This section analyzes these developments in the Turkish economy. (A
fuller account may be found in the extended economic annex to the Report and
Recommendation of the President on the Erdemir Stage II Steel Project, dated
June 15, 1978.) It also describes the short and medium-term policy initia-
tives of the new Ecevit Government, which assumed power in January 1978, and
cautiously assesses future economic prospects.
Structure and Performance
3.        In most respects, the record of Turkish economic development over
the last two decades has been good. As the result of a strong commitment to
rapid growth and modernization, real output has grown, on average, by more
than 6 percent per annum. Great strides have also been made towards meeting
the basic needs of the population in such areas as education, health care,
water supply, and rural roads. This impressive economic progress, however,
has been punctuated (in 1958, 1970,and most recently in 1977) by severe
balance-of-payments crises. The recent crisis has been the product partly
of extraneous factors and partly of Turkish development strategy itself, which
paid insufficient attention to the structural weaknesses of the economy and
perhaps exacerbated some of them.
4.        The emphasis which successive governments have laid on industrial-
ization has been reflected in a doubling of the share of the industrial sector
in total output between 1955 and 1977. It has also resulted in comparative
neglect of agricultural development, which has, in addition, been hampered
by inappropriate subsid-- and pricing policies. Moreover, although some parts
of Turkish industry are efficient, and more have the potential to become so,
a strong emphasis so far on sophisticated capital-intensive technology has
resulted in high-cost production in certain sectors. Unselective protection
against competition from imports has also inhibited the development of an
industrial structure well-suited to Turkey's comparative advantages in
terms of location, natural resources and labor availability. One important



consequence of this, in the context of a foreign trade strategy which has
emphasized import-substitution, has been that Turkey has so far been unable to
develop a strong industrial export base, and has relied mainly instead on its
traditional agricultural exports (supplemented by workers' remittances) to
finance the imports of materials and capital goods needed for its ambitious
modernization effort. This pattern of trade has been a fundamental cause of
the difficulty which Turkey has periodically experienced in reconciling rapid
growth with a viable external payments position.
Production and Employment
5.        The rate of growth of production in Turkey, unlike that in many
other countries, remained fairly high during the recent world recession.
The average annual real rate of GDP growth in the period 1970-77 was 7.2
percent. Continued rapid growth was made possible by a rising public sector
deficit, which provided a stimulus to aggregate demand that more than offset
the depressing effect of sluggish exports and the increased outflow of pay-
ments for oil and other imports. As a result, the growth of output was con-
strained not by demand, but by supply. Favorable weather and improved inputs
led to an average annual rate of growth of agricultural output of about 4.4
percent in the period 1970-77, while industrial output grew at about 10
percent--principally as a result of the sustained high level of industrial
investment. The general pace of investment in Turkey did not slacken during
the world recession. On the contrary, largely as the result of an intensified
public investment drive from 1975 onwards, the share of fixed investment in
GDP increased from under 19 percent in the period of the Second Plan (1968-72)
to over 20 percent in the period of the Third Plan (1973-77).
6.        The favorable performance of Turkish production during the 1970s
was not matched by that of employment, which has never been at the forefront
of the objectives of successive governments. Unemployment and underemployment
were relatively high, and were about 12 percent of the labor force in 1970,
and rose to over 13 percent in 1977. The underlying causes of this problem,
which has been aggravated by a sharp reduction in the rate of emigration
since 1973, are a high rate (2.5 percent per annum) of population growth,
and the adoption of relatively capital-intensive methods of production in
both the modern sectors of agriculture and industry. The comparatively slow
rate of growth of productive employment has had an adverse effect on the
distribution of income in Turkey, although basic needs are largely met. The
two main causes of this inequality, however, are the large gap between agri-
cultural and non-agricultural labor productivity, and the wide dispersion of
farmers' incomes.
7.        In 1977, the growth rate of real GDP declined to 4.4 percent.  This
was in part a reflection of a virtually zero growth rate of agricultural
output due to bad weather conditions and other sectoral problems. In addition,
the growth of non-agricultural output was adversely affected by a decline in
the rate of capacity utilization, due to difficulties in effecting the foreign



- 3 -
exchange transfers necessary to purchase imported inputs, shortages of elec-
tricity, shortages of domestically produced materials of adequate quality, and
labor disputes. (See Part III for a fuller discussion of capacity utilization
problems.)
Balance of Payments
8.        The most prominent feature of the balance of payments crisis of 1977
was the large resource gap, which amounted to almost $4 billion, or 9 percent
of GDP. But this did not arise overnight; the resource gap had been widening
steadily since 1973, when it was only $0.6 billion, or 3 percent of GDP.
9.        One aspect of this marked deterioration in Turkey's external trading
position was a very rapid increase in imports, which nearly tripled in value
between 1973 and 1977, when they reached $5.8 billion. Approximately half
this increase was due to rising world prices, including a four-fold rise in
the price of oil, which currently accounts for about a quarter of the total
import bill. The other half of the increase was due to a steep rise in the
volume of imports, which grew at about 15 percent per annum, roughly double
the growth rate of real GDP.
10.       This high import propensity has been characteristic of Turkey in the
1970s, and may be seen partly as a "catching up" phenomenon. In 1970, after a
decade of strict import rationing, the ratio of imports to GDP in Turkey was
only 7 percent, about half the average for countries of its size and stage of
development. By 1977, after several years of liberalization of import restric-
tions, this ratio had reached 14 percent. In concrete terms, this process was
associated with a great increase in the use of imported fertilizer in agricul-
ture, and changes in industrial structure and technology, which increased the
dependence of the rapidly growing industrial sector on imported inputs. After
1973, the rate of growth of imports was accelerated by: a fall in the local
currency price of imported goods relative to domestic output due to a rate of
inflation in Turkey which exceeded the international inflation rate by more
than the rate of depreciation of the Turkish lira against other currencies;
absolute shortages of domestically produced goods; an increase in the share of
fixed investment in total expenditure; and possibly also a tendency at times
to build up imported stocks in anticipation of devaluation.
11.       From 1970 to 1973, the rising propensity to import was more or less
offset by rapid expansion of exports--particularly manufactured exports such
as cotton yarn and fabric, leather products and processed food--and worker's
remittances. In value terms, total exports increased from $588.5 million in
1970 to $1,317 million in 1973, or by 31 percent per annum. Manufactured
exports increased even faster--from $100.3 million in 1970 to $443.4 million
in 1973, or by 64 percent per annum. In volume terms, total exports during
1970-1973 increased by an average annual rate of 22 percent, a very high rate
indeed. The increase in worker's remittances was even more dramatic--up from
$273 million in 1970 to $1,183 million in 1973, reaching a peak of $1.4 bil-
lion in 1974. Since 1973, however, export performance has been weak and
remittances also declined. The value of exports rose by 33 percent between



-4-
19/4 and 1977, when it attained $].8 billion, mainly due to rising world
prices; in volume terms, exports showed no upward trend. Thus by 1977,
merchandise exports were only one-third as large as imports, and the tourism
balance was negative.
12.       The poor showing of exports between 1974-77 is in part attribut-
able to the world recession. This not only affected industrial exports; it
also depressed Turkish agricultural exports such as hazelnuts, raisins and
industrial raw materials (cotton and tobacco). The difficulties caused by
the world recession were enhanced by two other factors: (a) agricultural
support prices bore little relation to world prices, and thus failed to
provide incentives to farmers to increase production of exportable commodi-
ties; (b) this problem was compounded by a general neglect of agricultural
development, buoyant domestic demand for agricultural produce, and ineffective
administration of agricultural export sales. More importantly, the develop-
ment of industrial exports, which at present account for only 7 percent of the
value of industrial output, was stifled by a more rapid increase of production
costs in Turkey than in her trading partners, which was not sufficiently
offset by periodic small devaluations of the lira. As a result, exporting,
which had been lucrative for a brief period in the early 1970s, became much
less profitable, and potentially exportable production was diverted to the
booming and highly profitable domestic market.
13.       The current account balance moved from a surplus of $0.5 billion
in 1973 to a deficit of $3.6 billion in 1977, because of a rapid deterioration
in trade balance and a decline in workers' remittances from a peak of $1.4
billion in 1974 to around $1 billion in 1977. One important cause of this
decline has been the restrictions on immigration imposed by Western European
countries in the face of growing domestic unemployment caused by the world
recession. The rate at which foreign earnings were remitted also fell sub-
stantially. This was caused in part by changes in the composition of the
Turkish emigrant population, including an increase in the proportion of
workers allowed to bring their families to join them. In part, it also
reflected overvaluation of the lira, which induced migrant workers either
to hold their savings abroad or to remit them through unofficial channels.
14.       The rapidly rising current account deficit was not matched by an
increased inflow of medium and long-term external capital. Turkey has delib-
erately kept both foreign private investment and private long-term borrowing
to a minimum. The gross inflow from official long-term borrowing during
1970-75 stagnated at about $300 million per annum. Initially, this was due
to a manageable need for foreign finance, given the tremendous increase in
workers' remittances in the early 1970s. Subsequently, it was because of a
lack of experience and initiative on the part of successive governments to
develop and tap new sources of external borrowing, when faced with a decline
in multilateral and bilateral lending on concessional terms. In 1976 and
1977, long-term loan commitments rose sharply, to over $1 billion per annum.
Most of these loans were tied to specific purchases and projects, whose imple-
mentation has been slow; thus the level of disbursements increased slowly.
Consequently, the overall balance of payments moved from a surplus of $0.9
billion in 1973 to a deficit of $2.4 billion in 1977 and was in part financed
by running down the foreign exchange reserves to the tune of $1.5 billion.



- 5 -
By the end of 1977, reserves stood at $770 million, equivalent to only one and
a half months' imports. A large part of the deficits was financed by various
forms of short-term borrowing which by the end of 1977 stood at $6.5 billion.
15.       An important source of short-term borrowing was the Convertible Lira
Accounts (CLAs), which provided nearly $2 billion, mainly in 1975 and 1976.
These are deposits placed with Turkish banks by foreign commercial banks and
non-resident Turks, which were guaranteed until recently against exchange rate
risk by the Central Bank. Another major source of finance was short-term sup-
pliers' credits, partly covered by export credit insurance in the exporter's
country. In addition, a swap facility was established with the Bank for
International Settlements, and a scheme was implemented whereby the Dresdner
Bank takes in time deposits from Turkish workers in Germany, offering high
interest rates, and makes the Deutsche Mark proceeds available to the Turkish
government, which also pays the interest charges. During 1977, however,
foreign lenders became reluctant to roll over the outstanding stock of short-
term debt, and even more reluctant to make further substantial loans. The
Central Bank was thus driven to delaying foreign exchange transfers on a large
scale leading to a substantial accumulation of arrears. This of course made
it even harder to obtain credit by conventional means.
Resource Mobilization and Monetary Developments
16.       The deterioration in the balance of payments position can also be
viewed partly as a reflection of inadequate efforts at demand management and
domestic resource mobilization, especially in the public sector. The public
sector deficit rose steadily from TL 6 billion (2 percent of GDP) in 1973 to
TL 77 billion (9 percent of GDP) in 1977. This substantial increase, which
occurred despite a creditable tax performance, was mainly due to a deteriora-
tion in the financial position of the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), and
in particular of the operational SEEs, which dominate the transport and energy
sectors and account for half the output of mining and manufacturing. Succes-
sive governments, in an effort to slow inflation, held the price increases of
operational SEEs below the rate at which their already high costs were rising,
thus transforming a TL 5 billion profit in 1973 into a TL 20 billion loss in
1977. In addition, the scale of SEE investment was greatly escalated, further
widening the gap between public sector savings and public sector investment.
Moreover, most of the increased public sector deficit was financed by borrow-
ing from the Central Bank, since administered ceilings on interest rates made
it hard to attract sufficient purchasers for government bonds. As a result,
and despite a large decline in the foreign exchange reserves, the money supply
increased rapidly, at an average annual rate of about 30 percent between 1974
and 1977. This was paralleled by a high rate of credit expansion to the
private sector.
17.       The rate of inflation, as measured by the wholesale price index,
declined from 30 percent in 1974 to 10 percent in 1975, but rose to 25 per-
cent in 1976 and about 35 percent in 1977, and accelerated in early 1978.
There are important cost-push influences on the price level in Turkey, includ-
ing a powerful labor union movement and a farmer-oriented agricultural price
support policy. But the recent trend has been the result principally of



- 6 -
excess demand caused by the enlargement of the public sector deficit, financed
by borrowing from the Central Bank, together with the private investment boom
which it stimulated. The consequent upward pressure on the price level was
aggravated in 1977 by a reduction in the growth rate of real output.
The Government's Short and Medium-Term Program
18.       The evolving solution to the present problems of the Turkish eco-
nomy, both in the short and the medium term, contains three salient elements.
First, restraint of domestic demand relative to domestic output, through an
increase in domestic savings, public and private, relative to domestic invest-
ment. Second, measures that directly boost exports substantially and restrain
imports, including the maintenance of competitiveness. Third, increased
availability of external finance especially through a substantial increase
in the level of medium and long-term borrowing. To accomplish this, the
outstanding stock of short-term debts is being rescheduled, converting them
into medium-term obligations, and strict control is being exercised over
future short-term borrowing. Ultimately there will have to be a considerable
restructuring of the economy to rectify imbalances in Turkey's current foreign
trade pattern.
Recent Stabilization Measures and Short-Term Prospec's
19.       Certain preliminary steps in the direction of a stabilization policy
were belatedly taken by the coalition government of Mr. Demirel towards the
end of 1977. But these actions, in most instances, did not go far enough and
in any case, came too late. In early 1978, a new government, with a small but
working majority in the Parliament, came to power under Mr. Ecevit. It pur-
posefully set about taking painful, but essential, economic steps to restore
order in the chaotic economic house it inherited and build up the confidence
of the international financial community in Turkey's future. It swiftly
formulated a comprehensive package of stabilization measures as reflected
in the 1978 Budget and the 1978 Annual Program, which formed the basis of a
Standby Agreement with the IMF in April. Since then the Ecevit Government has
followed up with a series of other measures as discussed below.
20.       To raise domestic savings relative to domestic investment, in
September 1977 the Demirel government substantially increased a wide range of
SEE prices, including air and electricity tariffs as well as the prices of
coal, iron and steel. The Ecevit government between March and May, 1978,
further increased these and other tariffs and prices, including railroad and
shipping tariffs and the prices of non-ferrous metals and petrochemicals.
Irrigation charges were also raised. All these together are expected to add
TL 23 billion to SEE revenues in a full year. In early September 1978, the
Government further increased SEE prices for petroleum and petroleum products
and sugar by 80 percent, which is expected to increase revenues by TL 31
billion annually. In addition to these increases, the Government substantially
raised the stamp duty on imports, and has proposed to the Parliament, a
number of other tax revenue measures, including a large increase in motor
vehicle taxes, income and corporation taxes, municipal taxes, and other stamp
duties as part of a broader set of measures designed to enhance the efficiency



- 7 -
and equity of the fiscal system. It is committed to holding down the growth
of current expenditures. Its short-term intention as regards public sector
investment, is to concentrate on the completion of existing projects and to
cut back on new projects, except in the bottleneck energy and ports sectors,
and for exports and such basic imported commodities as steel and fertilizer.
In these ways, the present Government intends to achieve a marked reduction in
the public sector deficit, and in public sector borrowing from the Central
Bank. This, in conjunction with other limits on Central Bank lending agreed
with the IMF, should significantly reduce the rate of growth of the money
supply and the availability of credit, which in turn will help to restrain
investment and consumption. This should help significantly dampen domestic
demand, especially of industrial goods, and stimulate manufacturers to turn
increasingly to exports, which have been made attractive with several new
measures announced by the Government (para 23). To reinforce all this, and to
mobilize private savings, most interest rates, including those on government
bonds and the repatriated savings of migrant workers, have been increased by
about 2 percentage points.
21.       The Government's efforts to control the public finances and credit
expansion appear to be showing slow, but successful, results. In the first
quarter of the current fiscal year, the consolidated budget was in surplus by
TL 3 billion, as compared with a deficit of TL 11 billion in the corresponding
quarter of last year. In the first six months of 1978, the money supply
increased by 4 percent, compared with 12 percent in the corresponding period
of last year. In the first seven months of 1978, total Central Bank credit
increased by 15 percent as compared with 44 percent in the corresponding
period of last year. Central Bank credit to the public sector increased by
22 percent, compared with 69 percent in the corresponding period of last year.
This credit expansion is broadly within the parameters of the Standby Agree-
ment. However the Government and the IMF propose to review these parameters
in November. Despite these efforts, the price level (wholesale price index)
rose very rapidly in the first quarter of 1978; but in the second quarter,
there was a slowdown. Money wages have also been increasing at an annual rate
of 40 to 50 percent. But the Government made a "social contract" with the
largest trade union federation in July, whereby wage settlements will be no
larger than is necessary to compensate for past price increases. This should
help inhibit any wage-propelled acceleration of inflation.
22.       To discourage imports, and stimulate exports further, the Turkish
lira has been devalued against the dollar three times since March 1977, by a
total of about 50 percent. In addition, it has drifted downwards with the
dollar against other currencies. The effect of the devaluation on imports
will be augmented by the increase in stamp duty, and in the short term, also
by government decisions to reduce imports of investment goods (by over 40
percent in 1978) and give priority to imports of materials and spare parts
needed to maintain as far as possible, output from existing installed capacity.
In this fashion, the Government's intention was to reduce merchandise imports
from $5.8 billion in 1977 to $5.0 billion in 1978. (For further details see
para 27.)



- 8 -
23.       As regards exports, the effects of the recent devaluations were ini-
tially partly offset by a reduction of export rebates. In July 1978, these
rebates were increased again. As an additional financial incentive, the Gov-
ernment has already begun, in various ways, to give priority to exporters in
the allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of imported inputs both
for export production, and up to a prescribed limit, for the production of
essential goods for domestic sale. Exporters have also been given special
permaission to finance their import requirements through acceptance credits.
The degree of priority accorded to exporters in the allocation of domestic
credit through the banking system has been increased and the interest rate
rebates on domestic borrowing by exporters have been increased. This has also
served as an incentive of particular importance in the current credit squeeze.
An inter-ministerial Export Coordination Committee has been set up, to examine
and resolve some of the problems faced by exporters. Its efforts have already
led to some simplifications of export licensing and registration procedures,
and to a decision to provide exporters with certain locally produced inputs,
including cotton, at world prices. Export targets have been set for SEEs and
Agricultural Sales Cooperatives, and the government has taken prompt steps
to dispose of large existing stocks of exportable commodities, notably wheat.
Further, as part of its short-term stabilization program, the Government has
already taken steps to: (a) restrain domestic demand through its fiscal,
monetary and price policies which should help prevent diversion of potential
export goods for domestic use; and (b) improve competitiveness through
exchange rate adjustments. All these are clearly demonstrative of the Gov-
ernment's policy to make export-promotion the keystone in its efforts to
restore Turkish creditworthiness. As a result of these efforts and policy
measures, in the first seven months of 1978 value of exports increased by 12
percent, as compared with the same period in 1977. For the full year, in
1978 exports are expected to total about $2.1 billion as compared with $1.75
billion in 1977, representing about 12 percent increase in the volume.
24.       As regards external financial assistance, the IMF Standby Agreement
provided for the immediate withdrawal of about $89 million equivalent in com-
pensatory financing. In addition, since the Witteveen facility is not in
operation, Turkey was eligible to draw up to 150 percent of its quota, which
amounts to about $360 million under the Exceptional Circumstances clause.
This entitled Turkey to withdraw $60 million in May 1978. A further drawing
of $48 million was made in September, following renewed discussions between
the Government and the IMF concerning short-term economic developments and
prospects. As a measure of the Government's determination to restore inter-
national confidence in the Turkish economy, it has recently decided to discuss
with the IMF the fine tuning of the stabilization package in November with a
view to improving further on its targets and achievements, prior to the release
of the remaining tranches of about $252 million.
25.       The Standby Agreement also put Turkey in a much better position to
cope with its large stock of short-term debt, estimated at $6.5 billion at the
end of 1977. The exchange rate guarantee on new CLAs with a maturity under
one year has been removed, which should stem new inflow of these short-term
deposits. Active negotiations are in progress with a consortium of commercial
banks, to consolidate about $2.5 billion of outstanding short-term liabilities,



including most of the CLAs, arrears on CLAs, and banker's credits, into
obligations with a maturity of about six years, including three years of
grace, at an interest rate somewhat above LIBOR. In view of the complexities
involved, including the reconciliation of the interests of as many as 220
banking institutions who hold CLAs, the progress of this large rescheduling
has been understandably slow. It is however expected that mutually satis-
factory rescheduling of this amount will be finalized in the near future.
To complement this, the Government also recently secured, from the members
of the OECD Consortium for Turkey, a rescheduling of service payments due up
to June 1979, on public bilateral debt and private debt guaranteed by bila-
teral export financing agencies. According to estimates made by the Consor-
tium Secretariat, approximately $950 million in interest and principal
payments falling due between January 1977 and June 1979 would be resched-
uled. The terms are two years' grace followed by four years to repay for
short maturities, and three years grace with five years repayment for longer-
term maturities. Interest rates for all maturities are to be negotiated
bilaterally. These bilateral negotiations are in progress with all OECD
creditor countries, and have been completed with some of them. However,
nearly $1 billion of unguaranteed trade debts still remain to be resched-
uled. The Government tabled proposals at the last Consortium meeting in June
to resolve this matter, which is under the members' consideration. These
various restructuring and rescheduling arrangements will substantially ease
the debt servicing burden in 1978 and 1979, although of course they will tend
to cause a subsequent bulge in debt service payments in the early 1980s.
26.       In addition, the Government has pursued other potential sources of
medium and long-term external finance, including new sources in the Middle
East. In response to this initiative, Germany signed in 1978 program credits
of $75 million and project credits of $65 million; Libya provided a program
credit of $100 million, and another $300 million spread over five years, to
finance oil imports; Iran provided a short-term credit of about $135 million
for oil imports; trade agreements of about $320 million have been signed with
Romania and Bulgaria) envisaging a positive trade balance; and, finally, a
trade protocol has been signed with the U.S.S.R. Another indication of
Turkey's change of direction in seeking external financing vigorously, is the
engagement for the first time of a group of internationally-reputed invest-
ment firms to assist in the rescheduling exercises as well as for tapping new
sources of private capital in Europe and the United States. Preparations are
far advanced towards the completion of borrowing arrangements for several
hundred million dollars, from some of the same commercial banks concluding
the rescheduling arrangements for the $2.5 billion of short-term debts.
27.       In March 1978, the new Ecevit Government developed a balance of
payments outlook for 1978, based on economic stabilization measures and the
anticipated inflow of foreign funds, on which the IMF's Standby Agreement
was predicated. However, it now appears that the levels of exports, imports
and workers' remittances will be lower than those envisaged at that time (see
Balance of Payments Summary below). While 1978 exports are likely to be some
20 percent above the 1977 level and should total $2.1 billion, they will still
be below the $2.6 billion level envisaged at the time of the Standby Agreement.



- 10 -
Similarly, workers' remittances have not shown the resurgence anticipated at
that time, and are likely to amount to $800 million in 1978. Considering the
projected inflows of capital, including the expected disbursements of medium-
term funds from existing commitments (mostly project credits) and assuming
that part of the new comercial bank credits now being arranged will be forth-
coming before the end of 1978, it is estimated that 1978 imports can reach a
maximum of only $4.4 billion, rather than $5 billion anticipated at the time
of the Standby Agreement. Should new credits not materialize up to the
anticipated levels, then this would be inevitably reflected in a lower level
of imports in 1978. The balance of payments in 1979 is necessarily harder to
project. However, based on cautiously optimistic assumptions concerning
exports and workers' remittances, and reasonable expectations of the capital
inflow, realization of a volume of imports 4 percent higher than in 1978,
would entail a foreign exchange gap of $1 billion. The situation is sum-
marized in the table below:
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS SUMMARY
(In current US$ millions)
Actual    Annual Program-    ProjectiOn/.
Items                                 1977           1978          1978        1979
Exports of Goods and NFS              2557           3380          3000        3515
of which:  Goods                     1755           2550          2100        2500
Imports of Goods and NFS              6488           5475          4915        5426
of which:  Goods                     5796           5000          4400        4900
Workers' Remittances                   982           1300           800        1100
Others (net)                          -616           -655          -785       -1039
Current Account Balance              -3565          -1450         -1900       -1850
Foreign Private Capital (net)          168            175           155         300
Public Medium and Long-Term
Capital (net)                         288            465           480         640
Commercial Credits and Arrears
(net)                                2907            810           975         810
Others (net)                           202             -            290         100
/1   Source:  State Planning Organization, Annual Program 1978.
/2   See Annex I-B, page 4.
Medium-Term Policies and Prospects
28.       The Third Five Year Plan period ended in 1977.  Preparation of the
Fourth Plan was suspended for one year in view of the economic crisis, and now
the Plan will accordingly cover the years 1979 through 1983.  The Fourth Plan
Strategy document was approved by the Council of Ministers in mid-August after
a month of intensive discussion and revision. The Plan itself should be final-
ized by late 1978 and submitted to Parliament thereafter.



- 11 -
29.       The most important feature of the strategy, which is in sharp con-
trast to all three previous Plans, is the strong emphasis on the balance of
payments, and in particular on the promotion of exports. This aspect of the
strategy is amplified in a letter from the Finance Minister, contained in
Annex I-A and discussed below in paras 30-34.
30.       The Government's objective as stated in that letter, is to increase
the volume of merchandise exports by a factor of almost two and a half between
1979 and 1983. This implies a real growth rate averaging around 18 percent
per annum during the Plan period. This is expected by the Government to be
achieved broadly, in the following manner. The volume of agricultural exports
is expected to grow at an annual rate of 5 percent, and of mineral exports is
expected to decrease. Most of the increase in exports, however, is expected
to come from manufactured products, whose volume is expected to grow at an
average annual rate of over 30 percent starting from an expected level of $650
million in 1978. About 40 percent of the planned increase in manufactured
exports is expected to come from food and beverages, textiles and clothing,
and leather products; another 40 percent from intermediate goods such as
rubber and plastics, products, chemicals, cement, glass and ceramics, and basic
metals; the remaining 20 percent is expected to consist of consumer durables,
capital goods, and other products of the metal-working industries.
31.       To achieve these export targets, several measures of the type listed
in the letter of the Minister of Finance, are under active consideration. In
recognition of the need to make exports both profitable and competitive on
world markets, the Government intends to pursue a more rational exchange rate
policy than its predecessors, including a more rapid response to differences
between the rates of inflation in Turkey and in her trading partners. An
export promotion scheme and an export promotion agency are being considered.
In addition, it intends to study the effects on export incentives of the
existing system of protection with a view to making appropriate changes when
the balance of payments situation permits, and to bring the relative support
prices of different agricultural commodities more closely into line with rela-
tive world prices. There will also be a drive to increase invisible exports,
particularly earnings from transportation, tourism, and civil engineering
contracts abroad.
32.       The Government appreciates that careful monitoring of export per-
formance is of paramount importance to ensure that policy changes are promptly
made and administrative measures speedily taken as needed to achieve export
targets, especially since several different ministries and agencies will be
involved in implementing the export promotion drive. To this end, the State
Planning Organization will submit quarterly reports to the High Planning
Council, which will analyze actual export performance in relation to the
targets established in the Plan and in the Annual Programs, and will contain
recommendations for changes in policy in the event of significant shortfalls.
The High Planning Council, after discussion of these reports, will in turn
make recommendations to the government. A summary of each report, along with
decisions taken on new policy measures, will be provided quarterly for informa-
tion to the Bank during the first eighteen months following the effectiveness
of the proposed program loan. The Government will also exchange views with



- 12 -
the Bank on these reports and follow-up action (Loan Agreenment, Section 3.07).
Further, Turkey and the Bank have agreed to have a mutually satisfactory
exchange of views on the policies and measures introduced to meet the overall
objectives and targets of its export drive, and on possible modifications to
these policies and measures which may be needed to facilitate the achievement
of the objectives and the targets, before further withdrawals are made from
the loan account after April 30, 1979 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para 2(e)).
33.       This export thrust is one of the cornerstones of the Government's
medium-term development strategy, whose success will be crucial to the resto-
ration and maintenance of Turkey's creditworthiness in the medium-term future.
The export targets of the Fourth Plan as stated in the letter of the Minister
of Finance are probably over-optimistic. Nonetheless, there is room for a
cautious prognosis that Turkey should be able to sustain a real growth in
exports of around 12 percent per annum between 1979-83. In this connection,
the following factors should be taken into account: (a) the relatively low
base and the current underutilization of the existing capacity; (b) the policy
and administrative measures which the Government has already undertaken
(paras. 20-23) have contributed to a shift of goods from the domestic to
export channels and are likely to result in exports in 1978 totalling $2.1
billion, or 20 percent higher in current value and 12 percent higher in real
terms than in 1977; (c) the continuation of these measures, and as siated in
para. 2, page 2 of the letter of the Minister of Finance, the Government's
intention to pursue a rational exchange rate policy which responds more
rapidly to differences in the rate of inflation in Turkey and her trading
partners; (d) the Government's investment policy, in line with its strategy to
stress exports, aimed at enabling Turkey to generate exportable output in the
manufacturing sector; and (e) Turkish policies, measures and drive, enabled
Turkish exports to grow at about 22 percent annually in real terms between
1970 and 1973, although the export base at the time was lower than at present.
A foundation for the anticipated export growth during 1979-83 is expected to
be provided by sustained growth of Turkey's traditional agricultural exports,
facilitated by reform of the price support system, and supplemented by more
rapid expansion of non-traditional agricultural exports, including wheat and
vegetables. The various measures to improve and maintain the relative profit-
ability of exporting are expected to have pronounced effect on the growth of
industrial exports. The dominant role in industrial export expansion should
however be expected to be played by the traditional light manufacturing
sectors, particularly food and beverages, and textiles and clothing, where
Turkey can be immediately competitive and does not face important bottlenecks
of technology and scale. The impact of demand constraints as a result of
existing protectionist measures in industrialized countries, which have as yet
not seriously affected traditional Turkish industrial exports, is expected to
be offset partly by a realignment of light manufacturing production towards
sectors (such as leather and fashion goods, carpets and wood products) in
which trade restrictions are less significant, and partly by a reorientation
towards new markets, including Eastern Europe and the Middle East. Moreover,
and provided that the scope of protectionist measures does not significantly
widen, a contribution of modest, but increasing significance to the Turkish
export drive can be expected from chemicals, plastics, fabricated metal compo-
nents, and certain sorts of capital goods, including transportation equipment
and spare parts.



- 13 -
34.       The other targets, as stated in the Fourth Plan Strategy document,
include an average annual real GDP growth rate of 8 percent, based on a 5
percent growth rate in agriculture and a 12 percent growth rate in industry.
The unemployment rate is expected to remain unchanged. Real fixed investment
is expected to grow at an average annual rate of 12 percent; 44 percent will
be allocated to industry, 44 percent to the service sector, and 12 percent to
agriculture. Gross domestic savings are expected to rise from 16 to 21 per-
cent of GDP during the Plan period, implying a marginal savings ratio of 35
percent. The main contributor to this rapid growth of savings is expected to
be the public sector, whose revenues are expected to increase in real terms at
an average annual rate of 13 percent, as compared with a real growth rate of 9
percent for public consumption.
35.       If the export drive is successful and imports are appropriately
restrained, and assuming modest growth of workers' remittances, it should
be possible, despite an increasing burden of interest charges on rescheduled
debts to keep the balance of payments current account deficit to below $2.0
billion dollars per year during the Plan period. To finance these deficits,
and to meet the need to amortize considerable amounts of existing debt, it
will also be necessary for the government to continue its efforts to achieve
a much higher level of medium and long-term borrowing than in the past, as
regards both commitments and disbursements. But this depends on the assess-
ment of Turkey's creditworthiness, which in turn hinges on a successful export
effort.
36.       The extensive short-term borrowing of the past three years has
greatly increased Turkey's external debt, has adversely affected its pre-
viously rather attractive maturity structure, and has caused a sharp rise
in debt service payments. At the end of 1977, the country's total external
indebtedness amounted to approximately $11.2 billion, of which $0.5 billion
was private unguaranteed medium and long-term debt, and $4.2 billion was
public or publicly guaranteed medium and long-term debt. Of this, about one-
third was held by international organizations, mainly the Bank ($0.7 billion,
plus $0.6 billion committed but undisbursed) and the European Investment Bank;
and about one-half by foreign governments and government agencies, notably
those of the United States, West Germany, Canada and the Soviet Union.
37.       The remaining $6.5 billion of Turkey's total external debt at the
end of 1977 consisted of short-term liabilities of various sorts. If the
consolidation arrangements currently under negotiation with the consortium of
commercial banks and creditor countries are successful, about $3.6 billion of
this will be converted into medium and long-term debt. These consolidation
arrangements consist of: (a) about $2.5 billion to be rescheduled by commer-
cial banks (para. 25); (b) guaranteed suppliers credits of about $400 million
under the terms of the OECD sponsored agreement of May 1978 (para. 25); (c)
another $100 million of short-term credits to be refinanced by CMEA countries;
(d) refinancing of $350 million of oil credit owed to Iraq for which agreement
was recently concluded; and (e) possible commercial refinancing of another
$250 million.



- 14 -
38.       The external debt management initiatives of the Government already
finalized, or well on their way to finalization, should help restore a more
attractive maturity structure to the Turkish external debt by transforming a
good portion of the short-term liabilities into medium-term obligations. How-
ever, a relatively high but manageable debt service ratio over the medium-term
must be anticipated as a result of the large short-term debts acquired in the
last 2 to 3 years and the terms finalized or likely to be finalized for the
above-mentioned reschedulings. In 1977, debt service payments, including
interest on short-term debt, amounted to 20.2 percent of exports of goods
and non-factor services plus workers' remittances. In 1978, after making
allowance for the rescheduled service payments, this ratio is likely to rise
to around 28 percent. In subsequent years it will increase further, since
Turkey will have to take on new borrowings to maintain sound economic growth.
Taking this and the expected terms of the rescheduling into account, the debt
service ratio is likely to peak in the early 1980s at a high level of about
40 percent. This, however, should represent the culmination of the financial
consequences of the present crisis, and should be manageable before the ratio
declines thereafter, provided the export drive is sustained. Thus although
the balance of payments situation will remain tight in the medium-term future,
given sound economic and fiscal policies and careful debt management which
the new Government shows determination to pursue, Turkey continues to have a
substantial borrowing capacity for medium and long-term funds, and remains
creditworthy for Bank financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
39.       Prior to 1970, Bank assistance to Turkey was small and intermittent.
The 1970 stabilization program, and the consequent improvement in the economic
position of Turkey, especially in the balance of payments, enabled Bank Group
lending to be established at a higher level on a continuing basis. To date,
the Bank and IDA have lent $1,661 million to Turkey through 52 lending opera-
tions (or 46 projects, since both loans and credits were provided for some
projects), including 14 IDA credits totalling $178 million. Sixteen of these
operations have been in agriculture and rural development, including multi-
purpose projects, nineteen in industry including DFCs, ten in power, and the
rest in urban development, transportation, education and tourism. Agriculture
and rural development account for 28 percent of the funds lent, industry and
DFCs for about 37 percent and power for about 21 percent. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
August 31, 1978, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
40.        Implementation of projects has been satisfactory in the private sec-
tor, but much less so in the public sector where significant delays resulted
from political uncertainty, limited coordination among agencies, staffing
problems and related administrative delays. Disbursements have consequently
been slower than expected. To improve this situation, the Government and the
Bank in June 1975 initiated joint reviews to identify and resolve key bottle-
necks impeding satisfactory project implementation. So far, six such reviews
have taken place up to the end of 1977. The results have been mixed, with



- 15 -
improvements having occurred in administrative areas, e.g., training programs
and speeding-up of disbursement actions, but with modest impact on key policy
problems, whose resolution has been considerably delayed or prevented up to
now by frequent changes in previous coalition governments. Loan disbursements
as of August 31, 1978, amounted to about 69 percent of appraisal estimates.
41.       A comprehensive analysis of the main sector policy constraints which
lay at the root of inadequate project implementation was carried out with the
new Government in March 1978, and further discussed during my meetings with
the Prime Minister and other key ministers in April 1978. It is anticipated
that the new coordination mechanism for Bank projects being established in
Turkey following these discussions, will be able to take effective steps to
improve implementation of on-going projects, accelerate disbursements further,
and thus provide a sound basis for expanding the Bank's future contribution
to Turkey's development. Disbursement targets and changes in (or reasonable
interpretations of) those loan covenants which are difficult to implement,
given the country's laws and practices, were reviewed in June 1978 with the
new Turkish coordination team. This team is also setting up monitoring proce-
dures for achieving disbursement and implementation targets. The preparation
work and analysis done by this team prior to the June discussions were thorough
and realistic, unlike the past. They provide clear room for hope that the new
Government will be gradually able to achieve improvements in performance. The
sector policy perspectives outlined by the new Government, the actions already
initiated since coming to power, followed by efforts on the part of the admin-
istration and by Cabinet decisions to remove some of the bottlenecks, give
room for cautious optimism that project performance will take a turn for the
better and strengthen the Bank's activities in Turkey.
42.       Bank lending has so far been mainly directed at supporting Turkish
efforts to improve: (a) income distribution and the level of living stand-
ards, through rural development efforts, urban planning, and increased employ-
ment and income opportunities; (b) the long-term capacity to earn or save
foreign exchange, through promotion of industrial and agro-industrial exports
and tourism; (c) lagging public sector saving, through the encouragement of
improved management and financing of the investments and operations of key
SEEs; and (d) institution-building in key public services, through selective
assistance for infrastructure. In the light of the Government's program,
which will be progressively refined as the Fourth Five Year Plan (1979-83)
takes shape by the end of this year, it will be necessary for the Bank to
review jointly with the Turkish authorities how best its lending and technical
assistance can meet the above objectives, without facing the policy and insti-
tutional obstacles encountered in the past. Pending the outcome of this
review, which will be carried out in the coming months, it is proposed to
continue to devote the Bank's development efforts to certain key sectors,
of which agriculture and industry are the most important. In agriculture,
emphasis is being put on rural development, strengthening of agricultural
credit mechanisms, and development of export-oriented production activities
like fruits and vegetables, and livestock products. In industry (including
DFCs), promotion of exports and employment, together with the gradual strength-
ening of the SEEs are the key tasks; hence this sector will also receive
significant support. This program is supplemented by projects in power, urban
development and transportation.



- 16 -
43.       Other loan proposals being processed for presentation to the Execu-
tive Directors in this fiscal year, include Port Rehabilitation, a Second
IGSAS Fertilizer project in Central Anatolia, a Grain Storage project and an
engineering loan for a pilot secondary oil recovery project. Projects under
preparation, which should materialize in early FY80 and thereafter, include in
agriculture: rural development in Erzurum, fruit and vegetable exports, seed
production and livestock development; in industry: further assistance to
TSKB - including for exports and small scale industry, and modernization of
the private and public sector textile production; in urban development: sites
and services, as also sewerage development in Istanbul; and in power: hydro-
electric facilities in Cukurova.
44.       At the end of 1977, the Bank Group's share of Turkey's medium and
long-term external debt (outstanding and disbursed) was 15 percent; its
share of Turkey's estimated total external debt (including short-term obli-
gations) was about 6.3 percent. The expected conversion of a large part of
this short-term debt into medium and long-term debt will cause the Bank's
share of medium and long-term debt to fall sharply, to around 10 percent by
1980. Thereafter, assuming the currently projected increase in Bank lending,
the share would increase. The Bank's share of service payments on medium and
long-term debt is expected to follow a similar path, dropping from 11.7 percent
in 1977 to about 8 percent in 1980, but rising thereafter,
45.       IFC has invested in the production of synthetic yarns, pulp and
paper, glass, aluminum, iron and steel products, and tourism, and has an
investment in the largest private development finance company, TSKB. As of
August 31, 1978, gross IFC commitments totalled $158 million, of which $74
million were still held by IFC. In September, IFC lent $2.15 million to help
finance the production of motor bicycle engines. The Corporation is currently
investigating additional investment opportunities in the industrial sector,
including piston rings and cylinder liners, glass, and possibly aluminium
products.
PART III - THE CASE FOR PROGRAM LENDING
Macro-Economic Considerations:
46.       At present, Turkey is suffering from an acute shortage of foreign
exchange. The underlying reasons for this are partly external, and include
the oil price rise, and the depth and persistence of the international reces-
sion, which has affected the levels of exports and workers' remittances. But
the present situation is also the result of past errors of economic policy,
with regard both to short-term issues such as demand management and to some
longer-term issues of development strategy. The combination of external and
internal factors over several years has produced a balance of payments crisis
of exceptional severity. It will inevitably take some time to rectify, espe-
cially if intolerable dislocation of the domestic economy is to be avoided.
Foreign exchange reserves are very low. Even with optimal external and
internal economic policies, there are physical and financial limits to the



- 17 -
speed with which exports (especially industrial exports) and workers' remit-
tances can be expanded in the short term, particularly in the present climate
of slow growth and increasing protectionism in developed countries. Thus to
maintain essential imports, Turkey must continue to rely on external borrowing.
47.       If supplementary finance does not become available to meet the
foreign exchange needs, imports will be further reduced. The alternative
would be a substantial build-up of payments arrears, which would jeopardize
both the beneficial impact of the careful arrangements being negotiated to
restructure the large stock of outstanding short-term debt, as well as the
country's otherwise promising development prospects.
48.       In such a case, therefore, the main burden of adjustment will fall
on imports. The immediate consequence of further import cuts, however, would
be a further fall in the already low level of capacity utilization, and the
national output, especially in 1979. This would impinge on the recovery of
the economy and its capacity to service debts in the immediate years ahead.
In Lhis connection, it might be noted that until the end of 1977, and in part
also in the early months of 1978, domestic production was reasonably well
insulated from the effects of the foreign exchange shortage by the depletion
of imported stocks, the Government's policy of focussing import restrictions
on investment goods, and substantial recourse by the private sector to accept-
ance credit financing and unofficial channels of funds through cash against
goods scheme. Since late 1977, however, all but the most essential imports
have been suspended; the value of imports in the first seven months of 1978
was 22 percent below the corresponding period of 1977; and imported stocks are
now largely exhausted.
49.       This situation would also make an adequate supply of exportable
commodities unlikely, despite improved export incentives and Government policy
of restraining domestic demand. As discussed below, industrial production
has already begun to slow down, especially in the chemical and mechanical
engineering sectors (see Annex IV for a more detailed discussion), and will
decline further if the present situation continues. In addition, there is the
danger of a decline in agricultural output next year, as a consequence of
reduced application of fertilizer and plant protection materials. Should it
be possible to achieve the import levels summarized in para 27, then a GDP
growth rate of about 3 percent in 1979 might be feasible. This modest growth
outlook is in sharp contrast with nearly 8 percent growth of recent years, and
in sum reflects the serious, though belated, adjustment of the Turkish economy
to the balance of payments constraints.
Sectoral Considerations 1/:
A.   Industry:
50.       Recent Performance and Present Situation.  In 1977 total industrial
production is estimated to have grown by about 3 percent as compared with the
1/   Background on the industrial and agricultural sectors is contained in
Annex IV.



- 18 --
average annual growth rate of about 10 percent for 1973-77.  This decline in
the industrial growth rate reflected a decline in the utilization of installed
capacities. The Turkish Industrialists' and Businessmen's Association has
estimated average capacity utilization for a large sample of firms in private
industry in and around Istanbul at 83 percent in 1976 and only 56 percent at
the end of 1977. Even allowing for some differences in the bases for the two
estimates, the deterioration was substantial, and increased in the first
half of 1978.
51.       The latter part of 1977 was a difficult time for many industries.
Production was adversely affected by shortages of electric power in the main
industrial centers. Engineering industries in particular were affected by
labor disputes which resulted in prolonged shutdowns. Releases of foreign
exchange for the import of industrial inputs and spare parts were severely
restricted already in the earlier part of the year, although existing stocks,
acceptance credits and use of unofficial channels afforded some relief. In
some cases, particularly those involving close contact with foreign firms,
imports of essential inputs in 1977 were maintained through short-term sup-
plier credits or bank borrowings, and there may even have been some stock
piling in anticipation of devaluation. In the first quarter of 1978, however,
following the inability of the Central Bank to provide foreign exchange for
honoring these short-term commitments, supplies of raw materials on credit
were suspended. By late April 1978, shortages of imported inputs began to
adversely affect output in many enterprises. In some cases, e.g. Petkim's
caprolactam, synthetic rubber, carbon black and polystyrene units, and several
producers of plant protection chemicals, operations had ceased entirely on
account of exhaustion of stocks of essential raw materials; and many other
chemical industries were reporting curtailment of output because of shortage
of critical inputs and spare parts needed for essential maintenance of
machinery and equipment. The difficulties of general engineering industries
and metal fabricators were also especially notable. More severe shortfalls
were anticipated for the second half of 1978, by which time imported steel
stocks would have been exhausted. Affected manufacturers expected to have to
shut down progressively unless corrective action was taken in the meantime.
Imports of industrial needs are running substantially below 1977 levels, and
there is urgent need for replenishment. Details of import needs in the
high-priority steel, copper, aluminum, petrochemical and other chemical
industries are provided in Annex V.
52.       Implications for Export Performance and Prospects.  The above
situation has important implications inter alia for export performance.
Manufactured exports declined by about 2 percent in 1977; and an improvement
in 1978 is being hampered by production problems as well as marketing diffi-
culties. Following the March 1978 devaluation, and despite a small net
reduction of tax rebates on exports, the effective exchange rates for export
of most manufactures improved by 20-21 percent. To take advantage of export
opportunities, production must grow sufficiently beyond essential domestic
needs to allow for proper service to export markets; but before this could
happen, inflation eroded a large part of the improvement in export profit
margins.



- 19 -
53.       The overall position of manufacturing industries in the second half
of 1978 has some favorable aspects for exporting. There is now widespread
recognition among manufacturers and traders of the need to "earn their import
requirements" through exports, and there is clearer recognition that marginal
costs provide the appropriate benchmarks for export pricing, especially when
there is an obvious link between exports and higher levels of capacity utili-
zation. The Government, on its part, has linked import entitlements for
certain categories of inputs to export performance (see Part IV).
B.   Agriculture:
54.       The shortage of foreign exchange had a limited impact on the use of
modern inputs to date, because of the existence of previously imported stocks.
Given adequate foreign exchange, fertilizer consumption in 1978 is planned
to total 1,523,000 tons of plant nutrients which would be worth about US$470
million at international prices. Use of plant protection materials in 1978
is planned to total almost 74,000 tons, which would be worth US$70 million at
import prices. Domestic sources of supply have grown substantially since the
early 1960's.  The fertilizer industry supplied over 40 percent of total con-
sumption in 1977, and the plant protection products industry met about half
the national demand. Capacity utilization levels are low in both industries,
averaging around 50 percent. In fertilizers, apart from the shortage of
imported materials and spares, important reasons have been power shortages,
mechanical breakdowns, and personnel problems. In plant protection, lack of
foreign exchange is the principal factor. There would be economic advantage
in increasing capacity utilization to the extent possible. Much more impor-
tant, however, is the need to meet the input requirements of the agricultural
sector, through import of either raw materials (for the domestic industries)
or finished products. Reduction in the supply of fertilizers and plant
protection products could significantly affect total agricultural output
in the crop year 1978/79 and thereafter, and especially the production of
cotton, tobacco, hazelnuts, citrus and other fruits, which are major sources
of foreign exchange earnings. Details of import needs for fertilizers and
plant protection materials are given in Annex V, Part B.
Summary
55.       The proposed loan should be seen as one of a series of measures
which include the rescheduling of private debts, the provision of new medium-
and long-term private capital and the use of IMF resources. These additional
resources would help Turkey to partly overcome its external financing problem
without altering the course of the much needed adjustments in the economy, in
the following directions:
(a) Help fill the large foreign exchange gap, especially in 1979.
Program lending would increase Turkey's immediate ability
to import essential items and introduce essential liquidity
in the economy, thus mitigating what threatens to be a major
loss of output from existing industrial and agricultural
capacity and employment.



- 20 -
(b) Support the planned major increase in exports through util-
ization of existing capacity, by enabling exporters to obtain
their import requirements.
(c) Assist Turkey in persuading other potential lenders of medium
and long-term funds to provide additional funds.
(d) Contribute to the Government's efforts to maintain per capita
output and employment at levels such as to make it politically
possible for it to carry through its stabilization program and
implement its medium-term policies.
These reasons have already led Germany and Libya to provide program loans to
Turkey this year.
56.       As mentioned earlier, the Fourth Development Plan is currently in
the final stages of preparation, based on the approved Strategy Document. It
has been agreed that a Bank mission to review and discuss the Plan in depth,
will take place in early 1979. The restoration of the balance of payments
equilibrium through vigorous promotion of exports, will be the cornerstone of
the Plan. Thus, the medium-term rationale for the proposed program loan, is
the Government's action program to expand exports as a fundamental strategy of
Turkey's next Development Plan.
PART IV - THE PROGRAM LOAN
Loan History
57.       The proposed loan responds to a Government request for urgent assis-
tance made to a high level Bank operational mission in March 1978 and reiter-
ated to me in mid-April 1978 during my visit to Turkey.  The Government's loan
proposal and supporting analyses were appraised in late April/early May. The
Government's proposed targets, policies, strategy and measures for realizing
its envisaged export drive, which forms the cornerstone of its medium-term
strategy during the next Plan period (1979-83) and is critical to the recovery
of the economy, were discussed with a Bank mission in Ankara in August 1978.
Negotiations were held in October with a delegation headed by Mr. Guven, Chief
Economic and Financial Counsellor in the Turkish Embassy in Washington.
Loan Amount and Allocation
58.        The proposed loan of $150 million will finance a small portion of
Turkey's import needs in late 1978, and in 1979. This implies coverage of
only about 1.6 percent of Turkey's total merchandise imports in 1978 and 1979
and around 8 percent of the imports of eligible items. There will thus be no
displacement of alternative financing on acceptable terms available to Turkey,
either generally or for the eligible commodities. The Loan Summary and the
supplementary loan data (Annex III) provide relevant details.



- 21 -
59.       Commodities have been selected, and allocations proposed, on the
basis of the following criteria: high direct and indirect multiplier effects
on utilization of installed capacity in the user sectors; direct or indirect
export impact; a balance between public and private sector beneficiaries;
acceptable methods of procurement; and rapid loan disbursements.
60.       These criteria were applied to lists of high-priority commodities
suggested by the Government from within the already-restricted total import
program for 1978. The Bank reviewed available input-output and other statis-
tical data as well as the direct import requirements for exported goods.
Specific information from a sample of significant suppliers of important
materials for further agricultural/industrial processing and from potential
exporters was also evaluated. In the absence of sufficiently detailed data,
the selection was necessarily based in good part on information regarding
recent performance and short-term prospects for capacity utilization and
exports. The proposed loan allocations as between various commodities, and
the rationale for their inclusion under the proposed loan, are explained in
detail in Annex V.
61.       The proposed loan will aim to provide quick-disbursing assistance to
help maintain and, where possible, increase capacity utilization in industries
producing basic and critical requirements of both the agricultural and manu-
facturing sectors. For agriculture, the loan will finance finished plant
protection chemicals and their raw materials and fertilizer raw materials (not
less than $40 million). It will also finance spare parts for manufacturing
industries and for crop spraying aircraft (not less than $20 million), which
might otherwise receive insufficient financing. In industry, the eligible
commodities are steel, tin and tinplate, copper, aluminum, petrochemicals and
other chemicals (up to $60 million). In addition, there is a provision (Loan
Agreement Section 2.02(a)) that no less than $50 million of the proceeds of
the loan will be used for direct imports by private firms, to help ensure
public-private sector balance in access to the loan funds.
62.       These allocations take account of production projections, the cur-
rent stock situation and import pipeline, and the possible availability of
external financing to cover part of the demand for these imported items. It
should also be noted that, while the provision of foreign exchange will help
achieve some increase in capacity utilization over present rates, it will not
lead to full utilization of installed capacity in most cases, because of the
existence of other problems--besides lack of sufficient foreign exchange--
which will necessarily take some time to alleviate. These problems include
the critical shortage of power, labor disputes, management capacity and the
like, which can only be rectified gradually.
63.       In light of the serious balance of payments situation, high priority
is being given to commodities having significant direct or indirect export
impact. Many of the commodities proposed for financing are essential inputs--
direct and indirect--for most of Turkey's agricultural and industrial export
items. However, in view of the restricted and diverse nature of the direct
import requirements of exportable goods, there are clear limits to the amounts



- 22 -
that can be specifically indicated as being for direct inputs for goods which
would enhance export earnings. Nevertheless, since one of the objectives of
this loan is also to support the Government's policy to substantially increase
exports, as one of the basic elements of its medium-term development policy,
the proposed loan, in addition to providing a short-run export impact through
financing the import of specific commodities, and calling for the reports and
reviews on export policy and performance referred to in paras. 32-33 above,
will also support a mechanism aimed specifically at expanding exports in the
longer run, as discussed in paras 64-66 below.
64.       As far back as 1970, the Government created an Export Promotion For-
eign Exchange Fund to be used for the specific purpose of financing imports
of recurrent goods and materials needed by Turkish manufacturers for the
production of export goods. The resources allocated to this Fund have been
determined by specific administrative decision from time to time. However,
in times of foreign exchange shortage such as the one Turkey has recently been
experiencing, the Government has not allocated sufficient foreign exchange to
it. The system for financing imports for export production has, therefore,
not worked effectively when it has been most needed to serve as an additional
critical stimulus to Turkish manufacturers to produce increasingly for export
markets. The Government therefore decided in April 1978 that 25 percent of
the receipts from exports of manufactured and mineral products should be allo-
cated to this Fund (which is operated by the Central Bank of Turkey), to
finance the import requirements of all manufacturers of export goods, up to
25 percent of the FOB export value of the goods they export. With a view
to reducing the procedural delays involved in implementation of this deci-
sion, however, the Government further decided in July 1978, that all such
exporters may retain 25 percent of their foreign exchange earnings received
after November 19, 1977, in designated accounts in authorized commercial
banks, and use these retained monies to import the necessary inputs for the
production of their goods as well as spare parts for their manufacturing
equipment. Conceptually, therefore, the foreign exchange thus retained by
Turkish exporters in such authorized accounts, serves as allotments for
imports they would otherwise have received out of the above-mentioned Fund.
65.       Pari passu with this July 1978 decision, the Government also cir-
cularized an additional incentive arrangement. Under this, Turkish manufac-
turers who have export orders in hand, or are willing to guarantee export of
their goods of a specific value, are to be allowed to arrange for credits
abroad in order to finance their import needs, up to 50 percent of the value
of the export orders in hand or 50 percent of their guaranteed commitment to
export a specific value. They are to be allowed to do this, subject to the
conditions that they will (a) repay out of their export earnings the external
credits they might have arranged; and (b) settle such credits within one year
from the date of the import of their production inputs. At the same time, the
Government recognized that under the present economic circumstances it would
not be easy for Turkish manufacturers to secure foreign exchange credits
abroad. The circular therefore indicates that if manufacturers find it
difficult to obtain such credits, then the Government would provide to them
foreign exchange conversion authorizations from the above-mentioned Export



- 23 -
Promotion Foreign Exchange Fund for necessary imports of the production
inputs. As in the case of credits, such authorizations from this Fund would
be available to finance imports up to 50 percent of the value of export orders
in hand or 50 percent of manufacturers' guaranteed commitments to export.
Repayment to the Fund out of export earnings would be within one year.
66.       A Turkish manufacturer may use either the 25 percent or the 50
percent scheme, or a combination of the two schemes depending on the circum-
stances. In practice, it is expected that manufacturers whose exports have an
import content of 25 percent or less, will use the automatic 25 percent
retention scheme. Manufacturers whose exports have an import content between
25 and 50 percent, will probably also cover the first 25 percent of their
import content from the 25 percent retention scheme and the balance from the
50 percent scheme. However., if they wish, the latter may rely exclusively
on the 50 percent scheme to cover all of their import costs. To assist the
Government in overcoming the bottleneck of inadequate resources for the 50
percent scheme, the proposed loan provides (Loan Agreement Schedule 1) that at
least $30 million will be allocated to finance imports of essential inputs of
manufacturers of export goods under the scheme. The Bank will disburse for
those imports in the same manner as it will for other eligible imports listed
in Annex V, page 1. To maintain the level of resources available within the
scheme, the Government agreed to a replenishment arrangement. Replenishment
will be achieved by prompt allocation to the scheme of foreign exchange
earnings resulting from exports made under the scheme in amounts equal to
the import financing provided under the scheme (Loan Agreement, Section
3.04).
Licensing and Loan Administration Arrangements
67.       General.  Turkey has a comprehensive system of import licensing,
administered by the Ministry of Commerce with advice from the Chambers of
Commerce and Industry (to which all firms belong), and substantive approval
of a large proportion of import applications by other Ministries, mainly the
Ministry of Industry. The most distinctive features of the system are that a
significant proportion of imports is free from restrictions in normal times,
where Turkish production cannot meet the demand; and positive lists ensure
that only essential items are imported. Nearly all imports not financed by
project credits, are grouped into three Lists.   The Liberalized I list com-
prises items non-competitive with Turkish production, and they are licensed
freely. The Liberalized II list comprises items competing with domestic pro-
duction, and approval is required from the responsible Ministry. The propor-
tion falling under these two liberalized lists increased up to 1977, but
liberalization is being reversed in 1978 under the impact of the foreign
exchange shortage and a change in the composition of imports. The third list,
i.e. the Quota list has four major sub-allocations: investment requirements
of public and private sector firms (not financed by project credits); inter-
mediate inputs for manufacturing; and components for assembly industries.
Applications for items in this List are made semi-annually. The licensing
system also includes two special sections (under the Liberalized II and Quota
lists) providing for the import needs of exporters. The stages of the import
licensing process are relatively numerous, but well understood in Turkey.



- 24 -
Under normal conditions, the time required for typical transactions is not
excessive, except under the Quota list with its semi-annual cycle. Details
on the import licensing system are provided in Annex VI.
68.       Until the 1977 foreign exchange crisis, an import license from the
Ministry of Commerce was sufficient for a successful application for approval
of a foreign exchange transfer by the Central Bank. However, in the course of
this crisis, Ministry of Finance approval of specific transfers has become
the effective foreign exchange allocation device, although the Ministry of
Commerce continues to issue import licenses. The Ministry of Finance has had
to give overwhelming weight to short-term considerations. Since May 1978, the
restrictions on transfers have been eased slightly with the inflow of new
external funds, but a return to normal is bound to be influenced by the avail-
ability of funds and may not affect all categories of imports equally.
69.       Proposed Arrangements.  The Ministry of Commerce, along with the
Ministries of Agriculture, Industry and Finance, and the Central Bank will be
involved in handling the proposed loan. To ensure the needed coordination,
the Government has established and will maintain a coordinating committee,
grouping these agencies under the chairmanship of the Ministry of Commerce
(Loan Agreement> Section 3.03 (a)). The items proposed for financing (except
for tin, tinplate and spare parts) are all included in the Liberalized II
list. Applications for import licenses will receive substantive approval
--om the Ministries of Agriculture or Industry, based on two major criteria:
(i) approval of imports to the extent Turkish production cannot meet domes-
tic demand, and {ii) equitable allocation of licenses among firms, whether
public or private, taking into account installed capacity, recent perfor-
wance and export potential. To ensure rapid loan disbursement, the Government
has agreed that with the assistance of the coordinating committee properly
empowered, it will cause the appropriate agencies to promptly approve import
licenses, promptly allocate and transfer the needed foreign exchange to
finance eligible items and expedite their actual importations (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03).
70.       Public-Private Sector Balance.  In line with the criteria employed
in selecting commodities, most eligible imported inputs are currently used by
both public and private sector firms. Goods produced with these inputs are
sold to firms in both sectors. The Chambers of Commerce and Industry, to
which all private firms belong, provide substantive advice on allocation to
the import licensing authorities. As mentioned above, these authorities
generally apply equitable criteria in allocation. Nevertheless, as noted
above in para 61, under the proposed loan the Government will undertake to
maintain equitable licensing as between public and private sector firms (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.03(a)), and to establish a clear benchmark for monitoring
during loan disbursement, agreement was reached that not less than $50 million
of the loan proceeds will be used for direct imports by private firms (Loan
Agreement, Section 2.02(a))* This allocation will not involve any distortion
of normal patterns of imports of the eligible commodities.



- 25 -
Procurement
71.       Imports will be made directly by actual users, except in those
cases (nearly all steel products and certain petrochemicals) where import by
certain State Economic Enterprises, for domestic sale to both public and
private sector enterprises, is prescribed by law (Annex V).
72.       Bulk imports by public sector enterprises costing $1 million
equivalent or more will be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding procedures consistent with Bank Guidelines. Imports contracted by
public sector enterprises for industry and agriculture and costing between
$250,000 and $1 million equivalent, and other import contracts costing over
$250,000 will be procured on the basis of competitive evaluation of at least
three offers from major suppliers in Bank member countries and Switzerland.
Contracts for $250,000 or less will be awarded under normal procurement
procedures of the public and private sectors. Spare parts will be procured
on the basis of either competing offers, or negotiation, depending on the
number of potential suppliers and the need for compatibility with existing
equipment. These sets of procurement procedures are intended to permit rapid
disbursement in support of the loan's objectives, and still help somewhat
widen the procurement sources of some Turkish firms that are closely tied to
traditional suppliers, and therefore give Turkey the benefit of the access to
suppliers who might be able to supply the inputs more competitively. Further,
to speed loan withdrawals, the Bank in the case of contracts of $1 million
equivalent or more, will receive a description of the advertising and tender-
ing procedures as well as of the contracts only after they are awarded, and in
other cases will only receive copies of the contracts after their award.
Disbursement
73.       The Central Bank's Consortium Section, which has had experience
in handling previous program loans for OECD Consortium countries, will handle
disbursements under the proposed loan. Two of its eight professional staff
will be earmarked to work on the loan, and no expansion of its total staffing
will be necessary. The Central Bank will issue the necessary regulations to
importers' commercial banks, aggregate withdrawal applications, and forward
them to the Bank. To simplify disbursement procedures, a minimum contract
size of $5,000 has been set. Turkey will be reimbursed out of the loan for
payments for eligible imports (including imports for exports) made after loan
signing. The Central Bank will certify that financing for them is not being
provided from other external sources. The loan is expected to be disbursed
within one year of the date of effectiveness.
Counterpart Funds
74.       The Central Bank will establish a special account for the loan.
The Government will use the counterpart funds deposited in the account to help
finance the local currency portion of capital expenditures on development proj-
ects included in its investment budget.



- 26 -
Project Risks
75.       There are no special project risks, except that Turkish administra-
tive arrangements in respect of import licensing and procurement could slow
applications for disbursements. The project therefore includes the main-
tenance of a committee grouping the Ministries involved and the Central Bank
to ensure smooth and rapid import licensing, foreign exchange allocations and
transfers (para 69). Procurement arrangements are in line with Bank policy
for program loans and also aim at speeding transactions. With these provi-
sions, the risks of slow disbursement have been reduced to an acceptable
level.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Features of special interest are referred to in appro-
priate paragraphs of this report, and summarized in Annex III.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
October 19, 1978
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I-A
Page 1 of 5
T. C.
MALtYE BAKANLIGI
ANKARA
HAZMIIT  : DBPD
Sayi     : 56908/47490
Konu
August 23rd, 1978
Dear Mr. McNamara,
The Government of Turkey, in order to maintain a rapid
pace of economic development, while avoiding the type of balance
of payments problems encountered recently, has decided to place a
much greater emphasai on export promotion In the Fourth Five Year
Plan (FFYP) than in earlier plans. The implications of this change
of emphasis are discussed at length in the Fourth Plan Outline
Strategy, a copy of which has been provided to the bank, and will
be spelt out even more fully in the Plan itself, which is expected
to be submitted to Parliament in October. In this letter I hope to
provide a concise statement of the Government's main targets and
policy intentions.
Specifically, the target for 1983, the last year of the
FFYP, is that merchandise exports will attain a level of more than
$ 5 billion in 1978 prices, representing an average annual growth over
the Plan period of more than 15 percent in real terms. This should be
compared with the real annual export growth of around 6 percent during
1970-1977. The principal feature of the export drive is expected to be
an average real increase of over 30 percent per annum in exports of
manufactured goods, whose share in total exports is expected to rise
from 32 percent to 62 percent over the Plan period. Agricultural
exports are expected to increase in real terms at about 5 percent annually.
In the first two or three years of the Plan period, the planned
increase in manufactured exports will be brought about mainly through
fuller use of existing capacity in the food, textiles, leather products,
wood products, and road vehicles industries; and through diversion
from domestic use of the products of the cement, ceramics and glass
industries as a result of slack demand in the construction sector. In
addition, during 1978 and 1979 new factories presently under construction
will go into production in the food and beverage, wood products, and



ANNEX I-A
rage PT  ox DO
leather products industries.  In the latter part of the Plan period,
manufactured exports, particularly in the machinery, electrical
equipment and transportation equipment sectors, will further increase
as a result of the completion of new export-oriented investment
projects.
The Government believes that this high export growth rate is
feasible given the initially low level of Turkish exports but it
recognises that achievement of this target will require vigorous
implementation of appropriate policy measures and careful monitoring
of performance throughout the Plan period.
To achieve the planned export targets, the Government intends
to make exporting more profitable than selling in the domestic market.
This will require measures to ensure that Turkish exports are cost and
price-competitive in world markets, and an appropriate response to
divergencies between the rates of inflation in Turkey and in her
trading partners. It will also require that protection of the domestic
market through duties and quantitative restrictions on imports be
maintained at a level such that domestic sales are not made unduly
profitable relative to exports. In addition, the Government intends to
maintain and develop the various financial incentives it presently provides
to exporters to the extent consistent with prudent management of the
public finances and with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
In addition to the export encouragement measures contained
in the stabilisation program introduced earlier this year, the Government
has recently implemented a number of measures to promote exports. Export
rebates have been increased. A scheme has been implemented whereby
exporters and their domestic suppliers are to be given priority access
to scarce foreign exchange for the purchase of imported inputs both for
export production and to a limited extent for production for the domestic
market. An Export Coordination Committee, composed of representatives of
several ministries, has been established to speed up necessary administrative
decisions, to examine the problems of exporting sectors, and to recommend
appropriate measures. As a result of this Committee's work, there has
already been a simplification of export licensing and registration
procedures, and a decision has been taken to provide exporters with
locally produced inputs such as cotton, leather, and grain at world
prices. Exporters have been granted special permission to finance their
purchases of imported inputs through acceptance credits. Interest rate
rebates on various types of domestic borrowing by exports have been
increased, as has the degree of priority accorded to exporters in the



ANNEX I-A
Page 3 of -5
allocation of domestic credit. The export targets of State Economic
Enterprises and Agricultural Sales Cooperatives are now set in advance,
and a successful effort is being made to export the existing large
stocks of certain agricultural commodities, particularly wheat.
The Government intends to introduce additional measures to
stimulate exports to whatever extent appears necessary, in the light
of further experience, to achieve the planned export targets.  The main
measures presently planned or under consideration are discussed below.
(a) To achieve the planned increase in agricultural exports,
the Government will bring agricultural support prices more closely
into line with world prices, thus providing a stronger incentive to
farmers to produce exportable commodities. More generally, the Government
intends to continue its policy of stimulating agricultural production
through increased use of modern inputs and techniques, including irrigation,
through better education and extension services, and through support to
cooperatives. In addition, the Government recognises the need for
investment and planning to eliminate present storage and transportation
bottlenecks, for financial support of market research to identify
promising non-traditional export crops, and for financial support of
export-oriented production and marketing projects in the agricultural
sector.
(b) Administrative procedures will be further simplified.
A study on the bureaucratic delays arising in the implementation of the
Temporary Import Regime has been completed with the participation of
the Ministries of Customs, Commerce, Finance and Industry. Based on its
findings an official decree is due to be published, which would simplify the
procedures related to temporary importation of goods and their re-exportation,
and abolish the guarantee deposits required for temporary imports.
(c) Control of standards and product quality will be improved.
(d) Export insurance schemes which will cover both the
creditor and producer are being studied and will be put into effect as
soon as possible.
(e) A Foreign Trade Institution will be set up which will
collect information, undertake market research and act as a means of
communication for both public and private sectors.



ANNEX I-A
(f) State Economic Enterprises will become more active in
increasing exports, Siizerbank for example, has already been asked to
try to meet all export orders; in cases where it does not produce the
necessary items, it will cooperate with the private sector to fill the
order.
(g) Attempts will be made to diversify the commodities exported
and the markets to which Turkey exports with a special emphasis on meeting
the needs of neighbouring countries in the Middle East.
(h) Long term trade agreements will be sought and investment
and production will be planned accordingly.
Mi) Domestic and foreign investments aimed at exports will
be given special facilities. Foreign credit, private foreign capital and
foreign technology will be encouraged for the purposes of export expansion.
(j) Special incentives will be provided for large scale projects
which intend to achieve more than a certain level of exports.
(k) To protect exporters from exchange risks, the Central
Bank, under a forthcoming decree, will convert foreign exchange earnings
either at the rate prevailing at the time of actual conversion or at the
rate prevailing at the time of export registration, whichever is the more
favourable to the exporter.
Since several different ministries and agencies will be involved
in implementing the export promotion strategy, overall responsibility will
be with the High Planning Council for coordinating their various efforts,
and for ensuring that the planned export targets are achieved. The Council
is chaired by the Prime Minister, whose members include three Ministers
chosen by the Council of Ministers, normally the Minister of Finance and
two others concerned with economic matters, and the head of the State
Planning Organisation. The State Planning Organisation is required to
submit quarterly reports to the High Planning Council on the implementation
of the Plan. These reports will include an account of actual export
performance in relation to the targets established in the Plan and in the
Annual Programs, an evaluation of existing export-oriented policy measures
and of the effectiveness of their implementation, and recomendations
concerning changes in policy measures. These reports and recommendations
will be discussed by the High Planning Council. The High Planning Council
will in turn recommend policy changes to the Government where these appear
necessary to achieve export targets. A summary of the quarterly reports
along with the decisions taken on new policy measures will be provided
quarterly for information to the World Bank during the first eighteen
months following the effectiveness of the Program Loan.



ANNEX I-A
Page 5 of 5
In this letter it is clearly not possible to spell out
every detail of the Government's strategy to increase Turkey's foreign
exchange earning capacity. But the paragraphs above, I hope, give a
fairly concrete impression of the seriousness of the Government in pursuing
a vigorous export promotion policy, and of the broad targets and the
types of measures which the Government intends to pursue. With this
strategy, we believe that Turkey will be able to achieve high rates of
economic growth without encountering serious balance of payments problems.
And in this task we look forward to a continuation and extension of our
close and valuable relationship with the World Bank.
With personal regards.
Yours Sincerely,
(Sgd) Ziya MtEZZINOGLU
Minister of Finance



TABLE 3A
TURKEY              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                         Page 1 of 4
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 ---------------
TURKEY                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      780.6                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     558.4                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE          COLOMBIA       IRAN           ITALY
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    270.0*    500.0*4  111I0.01*//l          350,0*     670.0*    1910.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
________ ______________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           27.8       35.6      42.2               20.6        29.0        53.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       35.0      46.0       53.0                18.0       18.0       178.0
PER So. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        52.0      65.o       74.0               93.0       107.0       266.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)         44.8      40.6       39.4               44.3/a      45.9        18.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          16.9       14.4      12.5                11.0       18.5         9.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       187O/ab 153.0/a                          70-0/b    140.0         29.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH CYRS)       49.3      54.4       56.9               58.5        48.8        71.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9        2.6/b.C  2.3                 3.2         3.4         1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 3.0        2.5       2.5                2.9         3.1         O.B
URBAN                                 5.1/a     4.g/d      4.2                5.5C        4.8         0.8
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)          31.9       38.7      42.6                60.3       41.0        51.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.3      41.7       41.7               46.6        46.0/a      24.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.2      54.0       53.9               50.4        s0.07ia    65.2
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.5       4.3        4.4                3.0         4.0Of      10.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8        0.9       0.8                 1.0         1.0/a      0.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0        1.1/      1.2 /a              I.6/d      l. 9/       0.9/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         ..        ,.              306.9       662.4
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            5.3       8.2         *-                 *-        10.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       13000.0/C 4000.0 /f 6400.0/b              6200.0      8700.0    19600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (C)        71.7       63.4       52.5/c           E 39.0        43.0        19.0
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABOR FORCE)           9.7/d   11.9/&    13.37T                 7.0        2.1         3.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  S~. OF HOUSEHOLDS           33.o/e f 32. sA      28.0/e             3i.9 /      29.7 /b
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            610   t  606 T    56.:4i                 60.1 i7e    54.47        .
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             4.27e.    2:         7 Ir               3.5 /e      4.0
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSE .JLDS          10.                    3.5/e             10.1 [ e    12.77.
10.-    1 1. 5e1:  e                              i:
DISTRIBUTION Of LAND OWNERSHIP
,_________________-_________--
.X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..      39.0 /l       .*
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            .        0 7T
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             3220.0 Z  2250.0    1880.0              2110.0      3300.0       5s0.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3260.0/b  1770. Oj  1140.0 /f                ..     3230.0       470.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           650.0      500.0     470.0               430.0      780.0        90.0-
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (C  OF REQUIREMENTS)       110.0     112.0      113.0               92.0        90.0       126.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             753         78.0      76.0               51.0        53.0       100.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..       22.0/k   24.7                29.0/f      14.0/c      42.0
DEATH RATE  W/THOU) AGES 1-4           16.0/e    14i4.7/       .                 8.4          *-         1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       75.0      109.0     108.0               100.0       83.0       110.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     14.0       28.0      30.0                23.0       26.0        60.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             11.0       11.0      11.0                11.0       12.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(S OF SECONDARY)                     18.0       14.0      15.0               20.0         3.0        26.o
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                40.0/i    55a.o/        ..               73.0          ,.       97.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                2.0        1.9         ..                 ..         2.2/a,d
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (C)                      81.0      66.0       52.0                  ..       87.0/a,e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICItY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 29.0      40.0       57.0                  .,       25.0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY CX)                    2.0       18.0         ..                 ..         4.0/a
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         49.0       89.0     107.0               105.0        93.0       218.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           2.0        4.0        8.0               11.0        10.0       190.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          102.0      247.0     400.0               414.0       246.0      2262.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.8        0.7        2.3                2.7         0.4         5.3
_                                                                          ------------------ - ---------------- - -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ACNiEX 109
Page 2 of 4 gea
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for Mo-t Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1976.
cdNP per capita data are based on the World Bank Atlas iethodology (1974-76 b.sis).
00 The long-tern strategy of Torkbih planning corrently gives the 1970 level af Italy as its objective.
TUREy        1960    /a  1955-60;    /b  Derived ftom .a-pla Survey estimates (9,700 households), might be undoesotifated;    /I   Civilian labor fgrce (1965);
/d  1965, including peak aeaaon agritoltural underemployment;    /e  1963;    /f  Difpoasble income;    /g  1962;    /h  Inclading
assistant nuresa and midwive;    ii  Perseos aio years and over who tell the cenaoa takera that they can read and write.
1970    /a  1967;    /b  Etclodee 17 eastern provinceo;    /c  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;   /I   Ratio of popolation under 15 and 65 and over
to total laber force;    /f  Civilian labor ferce          /g  Including peak eaason agricoltursi underemployment;    /h  Disposable
income (1968);    /i  ogricoltoral land (1973), ignoring landleaa households;    /I  Including assistant nora.a and midwives;
/k  1964-66;    /I  1967-68;    /m  Persons sin yea.r  and over who tall tho cens  takere that they can read and write.
MOST RECENT ESTLMATE .      a  Ratio af populaticn  -nder 15 and 65 and over to total labor farce,    /b  Civilian labor force (1977);
/c  1977;    /d  Including peak season agricultural underamplcyment (1977);   /I   Dispasable income (1973);
7? Including assistant nuraes and midwivoa
COLOMBIA    1970    /a  Official estimates based on registration show average erode birth rate for 1960-71 as 36;    /b  Rate based on burial permits;
/c  1964-70;    /d  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /a  Economically active population;
7? 1964-66.
IRAN         1970    /a  1966       /b  Urban only;    /c  1964-66;    /d  Excludea nomadic tribes;    /e  Inside only.
TALY        1970    /a  Ratio of population .nder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  Hoepital personnel.
1/ 1977 GNP per capita                                                                                                               October 12, 1978
DEPINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOR5
Lard A..a (thee sn2)                                                                      Populatf-o per nurainc person - rPoulation divided by number of prsetl.iig
Tot.l - Total surface ores comprising land area and inland waters,                          male  nd femsale graduate nsres, "trained" on "eertified"  ourass, ad
Agric. - Cot recenr satasate of agriosltsral seas wsed temporarily or peema-                au-ildary personnel witb traieisg or eperfesnca.
rently for craps, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                  Population le  it bopit1 bed - Pptp.lation divided by namber of bhspital bed.
available in publie sand private gasnal. and apecialised hospital and
GNP aer --pita 1(000  - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   rebabilitation casters; enclIdee nuraieg hbses and  stablihesants fr
o.lculated by a    cs      i-onversior method as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);        cutodial and preventive oars.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                               Par capita eapply of calories  of ra rlemnent          ry - Ceputed fee energy
equivalent of net food sapplles avilable in ..ootry per napits per day;
PoEnlati-o and vital oastis:                                                                 available sapplis  oa.priea  d-ma-tie prodoectoq, ieports le.e  sports, and
Popuoltion (mid-year million)   A. of July first:  if not svsilable, overage                changes in stock; net supplies sotlade animal feed, seeds, qsantitias  sed
cf two end-year estimates; 160, 1970 and 1975 data.                                       in fod pracesaing and losses in distribution; requireaente frle estimated
by FAO based en phyailogical nuads fr n-crnal activity ad health comsad-
Ponulation d-enity - per square he - Mid-year population per square kilometer                 ring anviraesetsl tasprature, body weights, age and see distribhtiins of
(100 hectares) of total are.                                                              papulatise, and allowieg 10t for waste  t household level.
Peopl1tio  density - per sqare ke f agric. land - Computed as ebove far                   Per capita sepply of protein (frame  par day) - Protein sontant of per capita
agricultoral lesd only.                                                                   net supply of food per day  net supply of fosd is defined as  Above; rquire-
-nets for a11 countries established by USDA Econoici Reserbh Servies.
Vital statistics                                                                             provide for a miniasn allesnaee of 60 grams of totel protin pAr day, end
Crods birth rate ear thousand.  average - Annual live birtha per thcnuand of                 20 grams of animal and pulse rotain, of whish 10 grms should be animal
aid-year population; ten-year aritsaetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                 prateia; these  tandards are loser thba  thoee  f 75 gr-  of total protein
sod five-year averaga ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate,                             and 23 Stees of asimsl protain as an average for the orld, psgposed by F-
Crude death rate per thodeend, --erace - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year              in the Third Wsrld Fond Srva.y.
popsIstifo; trn-ysar arithnetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 sod five-              Per capita prateis suppe  ire anfimal and gtd le  - Protein supply of f od
yene averags ending in 1975 for east r.eent eetimat                                        derivet  fre, aimals and palae. in gons per day.
Infant aortalitv rate (/thaa  - Anonul deaths of infants under one year of age            heath rate f/thou)e aes  1-4 - aknnel deethb  per thousand L. age gromp 1-4
par thousand live births.                                                                  yara, to children in this age grnap; suggs ted as an indieator sf
rife e..ectans.  at birth (vrY) - Avrage nmber af years of life remaining at                 malnutrition.
birth; osually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975 for devalop-
fog -oootris.                                                                           Education
Goss reproduction rate - Average somber of live daughters a weman will bear                Adjusted nrallaest ratio - primary school - Enrollment of a11 age  as par-
in her n--a-l reproduction period If bs. eaperiences present age-specific                  .e.tage of prsiury anhool-ags popoltloa; inelades children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually fiva-year avsrges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   but adjusted far different langthb  of primary  duca.tin; for countrie. with
far daveloping countrits.                                                                 universal edunation, enral7nt may exeesd 100  simes sea  pupil. er balm.
ponplation growth rare i7) - total - Compound annnal growth rates of oid-year                or above the official school ge.
Population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                             Adiasted anrallaet ratio - secondary achool - Computed as above; senedery
poeelstion or-seth rate IE) - urban - Compsted like grgwth rate of total                     edacatin regqirea at least four yeses of approved primary instre etion;
population; different definitinos of urban areas may affect cpuparability of               provides ga-Dral, v.natiosal or teacher training instructions for pupils
data among ceustries.                                                                      of 12 to 17 years of age; .orreapmndse.e corse.s are generally se-luded.
Urhac popolation (b of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different              Years of enhoulin Proid-d (first end second levels) - Tot-l years of
dafinitions of urban areas nay affct comparability af date mong countries.                 sohboling; at senondary level, vocational instruction ny be partially or
eempletely soloded.
Ane structure (pfrcent) - Children (0-14 yeart), working-ags (15-64 yearn),               Vocational enrallent it of secondary) - Vocational institutions ieelsds
sod retired (65 years and over) as percentsgns of mid-year popolation.                     technUe.l, industrial or other pregrema which  perece ttndepeodently or as
Aoe dendencv ratio - Rctis of populstion under 15 and 65 sod over to those                   departnenta of secondary institatio          c*,
of ages 15 throagh 64                                                                    Adult liter-cv rete (I.) - Literate  dolte (able to read end wite) as pe-
Ecoeneic de.ende-., ratio - Ratin of population under 1  aend 65 and over to                 centge o  total adult population gegd 15 years and  nver.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
F_IJly olan gna - accePtors (c,sowlative, than) - Ctnulative nucber of acceptors           Housing
oE birth-control devices under auspices of national fonily plaucing program              Persons "er rae  (urban) - Average number of persona per room in occupied
sicco inoeptio.                                                                             -onventiomal dllings in orban areas; dwellings amolude noc-psenesent
Pacly nlanisc - users  (b of married women) - Percentages of married women of                structures and unoceupied parts.
thild-bearini age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devites to a11 earried                ounPied d.elli".s withomt pioed water It) - Occupied oonventional dwellings
wean iL save age group.                                                                    in urban and rural aresa  withbet inside nr outside piped water feeilities
aspratg   f all eacupid deslig.9 
AEloiynect                                                                                 Acestoestret    ft of al  dwellings) - tonvntin...l dwellings with
foctl labor force  th ...o.sd) - Eoanomically active psrsoea, ioclnding armed                slentriciy Is lving qaetere as  percent at tPto1 dwellingn      n arban end
forces and onemplayed but secluding ho-seeitss, students, etc.; definitions                rural ares.
is varfoas coeutriee are not cmparable.                                                 Ran  dvellia con-       td to el  tricity f   - Computed aS  bove for rural
tahoe fares in esriculture (%) - Agricultur-l labor fares (i. fanning, forestry,             d          _  eline only.
bunting end fishing) as percentsge of total labor force.
ooneloved ft. of labor fares) - Inmplayed are usually defined as persons who               C"osoost'on
aso  able and willing to t-ke a job, oct of a Job on a given day, remained not           Rsdia re Peivers (ear thou ponp) - All types of receivers far radio brdcasts
of a job, and  _eokieg work for a specified oliimom period nort nocodieg one               to geesral pnblic per tbousasd of papulatiom; snIadas unli ces d resivra
seek; may not be comparable between countries due to different definitions                 in  -ovntriss and in yers  whn rgis trtion  f radio sate ws in  fDecve;
of noemploynd and aoorce of d.ta, e.g, eployseni offiScen tstiatir, sapia                  data for r.e.L years ny nore o mpar able  ines east conatris  aboshed
-rveys, compulsory usomployrent lonrasce                                                   liceneic                                                       r      o
.....ne cas  er phu  n) - Passenger cars ceprls motor mare a-aIng
Income distribution- Prce.tage of private income (both in cash and kind)                    less tbsb eight pereons; sonludes ennlances, hearsea and military
r-ceived by richest 5%, richest 20%, poareet 20%, and poorest 40% of hons-                 vebiclas
holds.                                                                                   Electricity Iwh/vr per can) - Annual consomption af indutriel,  onercial,
public sod piaeectctyin kilowatt boors per .ape., generally
Distribution of land    ne -P-r...rsgea of land measd by wealthiest 10%                      based on prdetton data, without alow.ance for lasses in grid  but allw-
and poorest 10% of land oners.                                                             ing for imperts and eoporte at electricity.
Newsprint (ks/vr per te.) - Per copit .annual consouption in kilograms
Ne-lth end Nutrition                                                                         estimaetd from dom-stic prodaction pIs net imports nf oa-priet.
Ponclstloo per shysicin - Population divided by nu=ber af prscticieg
physicians qualified from a nedical ah1ool  uncfiverty level



ANNEX I-B
Page 3 of 4
TURKEY - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET -
Actual            Est.           Projected             Growth Rates      Share of GDP
1970    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    70-77    77-80               1976
A,  NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(TL Biltion, 1976 Prices)
Gross Domestic Product                  423.5   607.7   659.0   688.0   700.6   723.7   763.9            7.2       3.6        100.0
Gain from Terms of Trade                 -2.3    -0.4       0.0    -0.3    -0.8    -1.5    -2.3
Gross Domestic Income                   421.2   607.3   659.0   687.7   699.8   722.2   761.6            7.3       3.5
Exports (G + NFS)                        21.8    29.6    36,1    32.0    35.8    40.1    46.7            5.6      13.4          5.5
Imports (G + NFS)                        31.4    81.2    85.0    96.7    68.2    70.3    75.4           17.4      -8.6         12.9
Resource Balance                         -9.6   -51.6   -48.9   -64.7   -32.4   -30.2   -28.7                                  /7.4
Investment                               79.5   145.8   156.0   165.7   143.9   147.1   151.3           11.1      -3.1         23.7
Consumption                             353.6   513.5   552.0   586.9   589-1   606-8   641-3            7.5       3.0         83.8
Domestic Savings                         67.6    93.8   107.0   100.8   110-7   115-4   120-3            5.9       6-1         16.2
National Savings                         73.8   114.0   118.0   109.3   111.0   116-6   122-3            5.9       3.8         17.9
B.  SECTOR OUTPUT                                 Share of GDP (Factor Cost) at 1976 Prices
Agriculture                              30.0    27.9    28.5    25.5    26.6    26.1    25.2            4.4       3.1
Industry                                 26.9    27.7    27.1    27.9    27.0    27.5    28.0           10.7       3.7
Other                                    43.1    44.4    44.4    46.6    46.4    46.4    46.8            9.0       3.7
C.  PRICES (1976 = 100)
Export Prices (in dollars)               44.1    92.5   100.0   107.4   113.3   119.0   124.3           13.6       5.0
Import Prices (in dollars)               51.1    93.7   100.0   108.3   116.4   124.6   132.7           11.3       7.0
Tcrms of Trade                           86.3    98.7   100.0    99.1    97.3    95.5    93.7
GDP Deflator                             34.4    85.4   100.0   125.2   175.3   227.9   273.5           20.2      29.8
Av. Exchange Rate ($1.00=TL)             11.5    14.4    16.1    18.0
D.  PUBLIC FINANCE                                As percent of GDP
Central Gov't. Revenue                   19.9    20.5    21.4    22.4
Central Gov't. Expenditure               22.5    22.9    24.1    27.4
Public Sector Deficit -                  n.a.      6.1      8.1      9.0
3/                                                                       Eat.
E,  SELECTED INDICATORS                             1970-77 -            F.  LABOR FORCE                             1970    1975    1977
ICOR                                               3.19                  Civilian Labor Force (millions)          13.8   15.6    16.4
Tmport Elasticity                                  2.41                  Unemployment and Under-
Average National Saving Rate                       0.18                    employment (b of CLF)                  11.9   13.0    13.3
Marginal National Saving Rate                      0.15                  Civilian Employment (millions)           13.1   14.3    14.9
Investment/GDP                                     0.22                    Of which (%)
Imports/GDP                                        0.11                       Agriculture                         67.1   60.8    57.7
Industry                           13.7   16.1    17.5
Other                              19.2   23,1    24.8
1/ Totals may not add up because of rounding errors.
2/ Borrowing requirement of central government, state economic enterprises, and other public authorities.
3/ 1978, 1979 and 1980 are regarded as unrepresentative transitional years.
EMENA CPIIA
October 12, 1978



ANNEX I-B
TURKEY:  BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                        Page 4 of 4
(In Current US$ Millions)
Actual/                                   Projected 1
1970        1975        1976        1977         1978        1979       1980
A.  SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1. Exports of Goods and NFS                                760        2139        2742         2557        30u.       3515       4250
2. Imports of Goods and NFS                              -1132       -5191       -5735         6488       -4915       -5426      -6156
3. Resource Balance                                       -372       -3052       -2993        -3931      -1915        -1911      -1906
4. Net Factor Service Income                               193        1152          670         366          15          61         106
a. Interest (net)                                       -47        -124        -217        -500         -700        -950      -1100
b. Workers' Remittances                                 273        1312         983          982         800        1100       1300
c. Profits                                              -33         -36         -96        -116          -85         -89        -94
5. Transfers (net)                                           8           20          22          -           -           -           -
6. Current Acount Ba;.ance                                -171       -1880       -2301        -3565       -1900       -1850      -1800
7, Foreign Private Capital- (net)                          175         256          162         168         155         300         400
8. Public M&LT (gross)                                     337         322          491         502         830        1230        1440
a. Project Credits;                                     245         317         485          499         500         800       1100
b. Program Credits                                       92           5            6           3         330         430         340
9. Amortization on Ptublic M&LT                           -197-       -117        -119         -214        -350        -590        -880
10. Public M&LT (net)                                       140         205          372         288         480         640         560
11. Comercial Credits (net)                                  18         829         1633        1429         965        1070        1170
a. Acceptance Credits                                    -           -           -           710         400         300        300
b. Convertible Lira Accountsl/                           -          846         790         279           -           -           -
c. Dresdner Scheme!                                      -           -           53          54          100         150        160
d. Euroloans                                             -           95         233,,         29 5/      350         700        710
e. Others           6                                    18        -112         557-         357-        115          80
12. Commercial Arrears-/                                     -                      234         1478          10        -260       -190
13. IMP (net)                                                48          243        148          -           220         100       -1)00
14. Capital n.i.e. 7/                                       -24         -70        -360        -358           70                     -
15. Change in Reserves-                                    -186         417         112         560           -           -         -40
B.  LOAN CONMITMENTs
Total Public M&LT                                       487         589        1206         1528
a. IBRD                                                  40         158         237          144
b. Other Multilateral                                   132           3           54          19
c. Governments                                          268         180         574          378
d. Suppliers and Financial Institutions                  47         219          316         643
e. Others                                                -           29           26         344
C. MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM (M&LT) EXTERNAL DEBT 9/                                                                         EXTEBNAL DEBT
Est               (Disbursed Only)
Outstanding
1. Total Debt Outstanding                                 1840        3282        4080         4670                                   Dec.31,1977
(and of the period, DO&D)                                                                                                        A,mount  Percent
2. Interest                                                 42          104         123         223
3. Amortization                                            135          145         151         214    TOTAL M&LT DEBT                4670   160.0
4. Total Debt Service 9%/M&LT Debt                         177         249          274         437           a   I
5. Debt Service Ratio                                                                                    IBRD and IDA                  706    15.1
a. Debt Service/Exports NFS                              23.2         11.6        10.0        17.0   Other Multilateral             568    12.3
b. Debt Service/Exports NFS and                                                                       Governments                  2433    52.2
Workers' Remittances                                  17.1         7.2          7.4        12.3   Financial Institutions         449      9.6
Suppliers' Credits            273      5.6
6. Terms:                                                                                                Otes241                                 5.2
Interest DO&D/Total DO&D                                  2.3         3.2          3.0         4.8
Debt Service/Total DO&D                                   9.6          7.6         6.7         9.4  SHORT-TERM DEBT                6539   100.0
7, IBRD DO&D/Total (MALT) 0W&D                               7.2         13.3        15.2        15.1   CLA's and Arrears             2267      34.7
IBRD Debt Service/Total DO&D                                                                          Suppliers' Credits           1508      23.1
Debt Service                                             3.2         12.4        14.8        11.7   Dresdner, BIS & TPAO           713      10.9
Acceptance Credits            710      .10.9
D.  SHORT-TERM EXTERNAL DEBT                                                                                 Bankers' Credits               384       5.9
Outstanding stock (end of period) 11/                     n.a.    1144          2951        6539      Reimbursement Credits         204       3.1
Overdrafts                    240       3.7
E.  DEBT SERVICE (as a ratio of Exports NFS                                                                  I                              409       6,2
and Workers' Remittances)                                17.6          7.0        .9.0        20.2   Other                          104        1.6
TOTAL DEBT                  11209
1/  Totals may not add up because of rounding errors.                             a/  Gross of debt relief and refinancing; net amount as
2/  Includes imports with waivers.                                                     shown in Section C.
3/ Includes CLA deposits originally mada, valuation adjustment, and arrears.
4/ Includes overdrafts, bankers' credits, and others.
5/  Includes oil import financing of $350 million from Iraq.
6/  Net amount outstanding at the end of the period.
7/  Net residual finance and errors and omissions' item.
o/  Negative sign represents an inceease.
9/  For 1970-1976 based on Bank external debt estimates.  Includes public and publicly
guaranteed and private M&LT debt.
10/  Represents debt service obligations only on M&LT DO&D, excluding debt service on short-term
obligations. See also line E.
11/  Based on Central Bank analysis of stock of short-term liabilities.
ENENA CPIIA
October 12, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of August 31, 1978)
Loan and
Credit                                                        (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number                                                         Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and nine credits fully disbursed                 255.1    96.8
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey    Education                 13.5               4.1
762-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey    Fruit and Vegetable    10.0                 2.2
257-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey    Fruit and Vegetable                15.0     0.1
281-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Irrigation Rehab.                  18.0     0.6
817-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Steel Mill Expansion   76.0                 4.6
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Water Supply  37.0                11.3
324-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Urban Dev.                 2.3     0.7
845-TUa/ 1972   IGSAS                   Fertilizer Industry    42.0               0.2
330-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Livestock II                       16.0     4.4
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey    Ceyhan Aslantas           44.0             36.1
360-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey    Ceyhan Aslantas                    30.0     0.2
892-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Power Dist.   14.0                 3.3
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway Railway Project           46.7             11.7
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey    Antalya Forestry          40.0              7.0
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                 Elbistan Power         148.0             87.9
1024-TU   1974   DYB                     Industry                40.0              6.8
1078-TU   1975   TSKB                    Industry                65.0              7.7
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey    Rural Development         75.0             60.4
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)         Agriculture Credit      54.2             43.6
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)       Newsprint               70.0             32.9
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey    Livestock III             21.5             21.1
1194-TU   1976   TEK                     Power Transmission II  56.0              49.2
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey    Tourism                   26.0             25.2
1379-TU   1977   DYB                     Industry                70.0             70.0
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                    Industry                74.0             64.7
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey    Northern Forestry         86.0             86.0
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey    Livestock IV              24.0             24.0
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey    Erdemir Steel Stage II 95.0                95.0
Total                                        1483.5   178.1   761.0
of which has been repaid                    135.0     4.2
Total now outstanding                        1348.5   173.9
Amount sold                  3.6
of which has been repaid  3.6               -0-     __
Total now held by Bank and IDAb/             1348.5   173.9
Total undisbursed                            j55.0      6.0   761.0
a/ Includes $18.0 million approved on April,15, 1976
b/ Prior to exchange adjustments



AN'NEx II
P9e 2 '.f 9
STATUS CYF BAXK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TTURKEY
3.  STATEMtNT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of August 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                           Amount in US$ Million
Year      Oblior         Type of Business       Loan squity    Total
1964      TSKB           DFC                      -        0.92     0.92
1966      SIFAS I       Nylon Yarn              0.90       0.47     1.37
1967      TSKB II        DFC                               0.34     0.34
1969      TSKB III       DFC                      -        0.41     0.41
1969      SIFAS II       Nylon Yarn             1.50       0.43     1.93
1970      Viking I       Pulp and Paper         2.50       0.62      3.12
1970      ACS            Glass                 10.00       1.58    11.58
1971      NASAS          Aluminum               7.00      -1.37     8.37
1971      SIFAS III      Nylon Yarn             0.75         -      0.75
1971      Vliking II     Pulp and Paper           -        0.05     0.05
1972      SIFAS IV       Nvlon Yarn               -        0.52     0.52
1972      TSKB IV        DFC                      -        0.43     0.43
1973      TSKB V         DFC                   10.00         -     10.00
1973      Akdeniz        Tourisn                0.33       0.27     0.60
1974      Borusan        Steel Pipes            3.60       0.44     4.04
1974      AKSA          Textiles               10.00         -     10.00
1975      Kartaltepe    Textiles                1.30         -      1.30
1975      Sasa          Nylon Yarn             15.00         -     15.00
1975      Aslan          Cem"ent               10.60         -     10.60
1975      DOKTAS         Steel                  7.50       1.37     8.87
1975      TSKB           DFC                   25.00       1.22    26.22
1976      NASAS         Aluminum                1.58         -      1.58
1976      TSKB           DFC                   25.00         -     25.00
1976      Asil Celik    Steel                  12.00       2.18    14.18
1977      B0RUSAN        Steel Pipes              -        0.16     0.16
1978     DOKTAS          Steel                    -        0.27     0.27
Total Gross Commitments             144.56      13.05   157.61
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
exchange adJustments, repayments  81.06       2.99   84.05
Total Commitments now held by IFC _3!50         10.06   73.56
Total Undisbursed                     1.59       2.61   .420



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project:  US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971. Effec-
tive Date:  September 29, 1971.  Closing Date:  March 31, 1980.
The project was substantially delayed due mainly to initial diffi-
culties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff and
authority commensurate with its responsibilities. However, implementation is
now proceeding well, with equipment procurement progressing satisfactorily.
Training of teachers for technician schools, adult training centers and
practical trade schools has made considerable progress. The Management
Training Institute has been established on an interim basis pending passage
of legislation formally establishing it, and its instructors are undergoing
training. Sixty-seven local advisory committees for vocational and technical
education have been established, one in each province.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 762/257 Fruit and Vegetable Export Project: US$10 million
loan and US$15 million credit of June 22, 1971. Effective Date: May 19,
1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is nearing completion, with three of its four com-
ponents, including refrigerated trailer and towing units, marketing facili-
ties and a roll-on roll-off ferryship, fully implemented. A fourth component,
comprising credit and technical assistance for citrus development, underwent
initial start-up delays, but is now well established and being implemented
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 281 Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million credit of
January 25, 1972. Effective Date: April 27, 1972. Closing Date: December
31, 1978.
Construction of irrigation and drainage channels and on-farm works
at Silifke and Tokat is nearly complete, but on-farm works are still behind
schedule at Koprucay because of the extremely short annual work season.
Arrangements to ensure use of remaining loan funds before the revised closing
date have been finalized by the implementing agencies, and project works not
completed by the closing date would be carried out using Government funds.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Ln. No. 817 Steel Mill Expansion Project: US$76 million loan of April 28)
1972. Effective Date: August 4, 1972. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project is undergoing test trial runs and is expected to start
commercial production at the end of the year, three years behind the original
schedule, due to delays in beginning procurement stemming largely from ineffi-
cient management. An additional $2.0 million in foreign exchange is required
for completion of testing, and the Government is arranging this.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs are expected to be completed by end-1978. Substantial
improvements to the distribution system are required, however, to enable full
utilization to be made of the new water sources. Although a tariff increase
was implemented in March 1978, this was insufficient to enable ISI to generate
sufficient funds for future ongoing investment in the distribution system, and
the Government has been requested to explore ways to resolve the lack of ade-
quate local and foreign currency.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
Consultants have completed Phase I of the general urban planning and
urban transport/land use modelling studies as well as studies on wastewater
and bus/traffic engineering and control. Terms of reference for Phase II
studies have been agreed and consultants' proposals sought.
Ln. No. 845 IGSAS (Istanbul Fertilizer Company) Project: US$42 million loan
of June 30, 1972 as amended April 18, 1975. Effective Date: October 6, 1972.
Closing Date: October 31, 1978.
The project has been physically completed at a cost of $146 million,
some $16 million above the original estimate, with the overrun being met by
the Government, the State Investment Bank, and shareholders. Production com-
menced in April 1977, but soon thereafter severe technical problems resulted
in lengthy shutdowns which have prevented steady commercial operation at
satisfactory levels. These problems have now been largely overcome, and final
performance testing of the plant is scheduled for late October 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Fattening Subproject is progressing satisfactorily and all funds
have been committed. The Village Livestock Development Subproject, after
resolution of initial difficulties in recruitment of technicians and gaining
farmer confidence, is now progressing rapidly, with 95 percent of the funds
committed. The project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Construction of diversion tunnels has met with difficult rock condi-
tions and several cave-ins, but diversion is now expected to be completed with
revised tunnelling methods before the 1978-79 flood season, about two years
behind the appraisal estimate. After some initial delays, progress in con-
struction of the irrigation works has been satisfactory, and by the end of
1977 - the last work season for which detailed information is available - the
system was ready to deliver water to about 36,500 ha. On-farm works were
significantly behind schedule. However, construction of feeder roads has
progressed faster than initially estimated. Although a permanent director
has been appointed, the extension consultant has resigned and is now being
replaced. Full-time subject matter specialists have been hired and recruit-
ment of field staff is continuing.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow pro-
curement action; however, this is now almost completed. Local costs have
increased by nearly 300 percent over appraisal estimates, and foreign costs
by 26 percent. Consultant studies of the Istanbul power market and of the
proposed reorganization of the company's electricity and transport services
have been completed; a study of its gas operations is under review. IETT's
tariffs were raised twice following the countrywide tariff adjustments made in
September 1977; additional steps are planned by the Government to help cover
the increased project costs and revitalize the company's finances.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Nearly 75 percent of the loan has been



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
disbursed and procurement actions have been or are in the process of being
completed for use of the remaining loan funds, although project completion
will only be in mid-1980. Despite two tariff increases since the loan was
made, the Railways have continued to fall short of the financial targets in
the revised Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975. However, it is
hoped that further increases in passenger fares and freight tariffs averaging
70 to 80 percent, which became effective earlier this year, will improve the
Railways' financial situation. While the dieselization program is making
satisfactory progress, other measures to improve operational efficiency, such
as appropriate manpower planning, have not been given sufficient attention.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from relocation of the site of the pulp and paper
mill, the loan was declared effective. Construction at the new site is under-
way, and the project is expected to be completed by mid-1981, two years behind
the revised schedule. The cost overruns are being met by the Government and
the State Investment Bank. Some cases of sub-standard civil works construc-
tion have occurred, but a corrective program and strengthened supervision by
SEKA have produced some improvement. The Government has recently been unable
to authorize the foreign exchange transfers needed to permit continued pro-
curement for the industrial part of the project, but hopes to make certain
critically needed transfers shortly. Local currency payments for the Akdeniz
establishment are also behind schedule, resulting in a high debt-equity ratio.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Engineering and contracting are proceeding, but project implementa-
tion has been delayed by critical problems, including insufficient staff,
inefficient management, inadequate coordination among various agencies and
unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors. Following Bank and co-lender
reviews of the situation with the Turkish authorities in early 1977, the reme-
dial measures initiated by Turkey have resulted in some improvement of project
coordination and physical aspects of project implementation. Financing, both
domestic and foreign, remains a serious problem. The Government is reviewing
possible actions to overcome these and other remaining implementation problems.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1974. Effective Date: April 24, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The loan is fully committed and project implementation is satis-
factory. Disbursements are nearly complete, although somewhat behind original
appraisal estimates, as a result of difficulties with a few subprojects.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 2, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. The project extension
service and credit components are operating successfully and consultants are
being engaged. Corum dam is nearing completion. Kumbaba pumping station and
the associated irrigation networks are nearly completed. Construction of the
remaining village centers will be delayed until 1979 while a plan for the use
and maintenance of the centers already built is being drawn up. Other civil
works are well underway.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Procurement action is somewhat behind schedule, but nearly three-
fourths of the loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed
because of foreign exchange shortages, but this situation is expected to
improve, and overall project implementation and the rate of disbursement
should also improve in the coming period.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.2 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on
and roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable
Export project, are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports
in Turkey and two ports in Italy. The project marketing and processing
facilities have been selected, and preparation of their feasibility studies
is expected to begin shortly. The Agricultural Bank (TCZB) has, after some
delays, recently introduced acceptable new lending conditions and procedures
for its ongoing supervised credit program, and disbursements for this com-
ponent are expected to begin shortly. TCZB has proposed to carry out itself a
study of its structure and procedures, originally envisaged for consultants,
and submitted details for review. It has also requested an 18-month extension
in initiating a program of improving its operations, financial planning and
resources. At the Borrower's request, a cattle-fattening component of the
Project, and US$7.7 million of the original Loan amount of $63 million, allo-
cated for this purpose, were cancelled on May 5, 1977. Also, as provided for
in the Loan Agreement, $1.04 million for training was cancelled on December 22,
1977, following approval of UNDP funds for this purpose.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is now proceeding satisfactorily, but due to past delays
in civil works and procurement is expected to start production in January 1980,
one year behind appraisal schedule. Erection of machinery and equipment is
expected to begin in fall 1978 and trial runs about one year later.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation is
now satisfactory. Project area offices have been established and are virtually
fully staffed, with all three consultants on post. Preparation of farm devel-
opment plans has been slower than expected; however, substantial numbers of
sub-loan applications have been approved and include a higher proportion than
expected of small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is satisfactory, with
progress being made in preparation of specifications and project design work.
The Project Unit has now been established in the Project Area and appointment
of key staff is being accelerated.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date: March 31,
1981.
Loan commitments have now started but not yet disbursements, mainly
due to changes in Government which led to delays in formulating the 1978
Annual Program. However, DYB has discussed with the Bank a pipeline suffi-
cient to fully commit the loan by mid-1979. DYB has been experiencing severe
staff constraints, which it has in part overcome by recruitment of additional
junior staff. It hopes improved contract terms will enable it to fill more
senior positions as needed.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and half of the loan has been committed.
In 1977, TSKB essentially reached an agreed target by allocating 38 percent of
its resources to projects in less developed regions, and exceeded another in
its assistance to small and medium-scale labor-intensive enterprises. TSKB
has so far been unable to raise resources in international capital markets as
expected because of Turkey's economic difficulties, but the interest of
several financing sources is anticipated once conditions permit renewed
efforts.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date:  (Original) September 4, 1978.  (Current) October 31, 1978.
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
This loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV:  US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.  Effective
Date:   (Original) September 4, 1978.  (Current) October 31, 1978.  Closing
Date:: June 30, 1985.
This loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This loan is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key_Events
(a)  Loan request made to the Bank:                March/April 1978
(b)  Appraisal mission:                            April/May 1978
(c)  Completion of negotiations:                   October 2, 1978
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness:                November 30, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Supervision missions as needed to ensure all administrative and disbursement
arrangements are in place to permit rapid disbursements.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Minimum loan allocations for agriculture, spare parts, and the
Import for Export Promotion Scheme; specific minimum withdrawal
requirement for direct imports by the private sector (paras 61
and 66, and Section 2.02(a).
(b) Counterpart funds to be used for local currency requirements for
capital expenditures on development projects included in the in-
vestment program (para 74, and Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).
(c) Maintenance of an appropriately empowered coordination committee
to speed import licensing and foreign exchange transfer (para 69,
and Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(a).
(d) Maintenance of the Government's Import for Export Promotion Scheme
and its prompt replenishment from export earnings resulting from
exports under the Scheme (paras 65 and 66, and Loan Agreement,
Section 3.04).
(e) Provision to the Bank of quarterly reports by the State Planning
Organization (SPO) to the High Planning Cou*ncil, monitoring export
targets and policies, and of a summary of policy decisions taken
on the basis of the recommendations contained in those reports
(para 32, and Loan Agreement, Section 3.07).
(f) Completion by April 30, 1979 before further withdrawal can be made,
of a mutually satisfactory exchange of views on the Government's
policies and administrative measures, and any needed modifications
thereto, to achieve the Government's objectives and targets for in-
creased utilization of agricultural and industrial capacity and for
increased agricultural and industrial exports (para 32, and Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, para 2(e)).



ANNEX IV
Page i of 6
THE INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL SECTORS
A.   Industry
1.        Role in the Economy.  The growth of manufacturing industries in
Turkey has been rapid and relatively steady through the first three five-year
plans (1962-77). Manufacturing value added rose from about 12.7 percent of
GDP in 1962 to 18.6 percent in 1977, and its average annual growth rate has
been about 8.5 percent during 1972-77. Previous plans aimed at rapid indus-
trialization, to achieve sustained economic growth with self-sufficiency, with
emphasis on import substitution using advanced technology, and a secondary
role for exports. SEEs developed basic industries and those for exploiting
Turkey's considerable natural resources in several regions. They account for
about 40 percent of manufacturing value-added. While their primary purpose is
production, they have also been charged with social goals, such as the devel-
opment of backward regions, provision of employment and maintenance of price
stability, which have contributed to their generally poor financial perfor-
mance.  Low salaries, political pressures, feather bedding and limited
management autonomy have affected the quality of their management. The
private sector, stimulated by substantial incentives and a protected market,
invested mainly in profitable consumer goods and durables. It has only
recently entered intermediate goods production.
2.        During the past decade, the share of consumer goods in industrial
output has declined from about 53 to 48 percent, while that of intermediate
goods has been stable and that of investment goods (including consumer
durables) has increased from 12 to 16 percent. These changes reflect the
gradual drive for "import substitution". But the manufacturing sector is
still heavily dependent on imports of capital goods, materials, intermediates
and manufactured components or sub-assemblies. Besides, although some indus-
tries are competitive, the domestic resource cost of other manufacturing or
processing operations is high by international standards, because of small
scale operations, high cost capital-intensive technology, under-utilization
of installed equipment and absence of competition from imports.
3.        Role of the Sector in Exports.  The share of manufactures in Turkey's
total exports increased from about 6 percent in 1965 to 33 percent in 1977.
The largest expansion occurred during 1970-1973 when there was a more than
four-fold increase in the industrial exports. The bulk of this gain, however,
was achieved through a few industries: textiles, leather products and pro-
cessed foods, which even today accounted for about 75 percent of all indus-
trial exports. In spite of these gains, industrial exports accounted for
only 7 percent of the gross output of the sector in 1977, mainly because
Turkey's industries have remained oriented mainly towards the protected and
highly lucrative domestic market. This inward orientation of the industrial
sector is the result of the growth protectionist policies and a foreign trade
strategy, which favored import substitution vis-a-vis exports.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 6
4.        Recent Performance and Present Situation.  Total industrial produc-
tion is estimated to have grown by about 3 percent in 1977. This compares
unfavorably with the average growth rate of industrial production of about 10
percent annually for the years 1973-77. The decline in the industrial growth
rate reflected a decline in the utilization of installed capacities. The
Turkish Industrialists' and Businessmen's Association has estimated average
capacity utilization for a large sample of firms in private industry in and
around Istanbul at 83 percent in 1976 and only 56 percent at the end of 1977.
Even allowing for some differences in the bases for the two estimates, the
deterioration was substantial, and has increased in the first half of 1978.
5.        The latter part of 1977 was a difficult time for many industries.
Production was adversely affected by shortages of electric power in the main
industrial centers. Engineering industries in particular were affected by
labor disputes which resulted in prolonged shutdowns. Releases of foreign
exchange for the import of industrial inputs and spare parts were severely
restricted already in the earlier part of the year, although existing stocks,
acceptance credits and use of unofficial channels afforded some relief. In
some cases, particularly those involving close contact with foreign firms,
imports of essential inputs were maintained in 1977 through short-term supplier
credits or bank borrowings, and there may even have been some stock piling in
anticipation of devaluation. In the first quarter of 1978, however, follow-
ing the inability of the Central Bank to provide foreign exchange for honor-
ing these short-term commitments, supplies of raw materials on credit were
suspended. By late April 1978, shortages of imported inputs began having
adverse effects on output in many enterprises. In some cases, e.g. Petkim's
caprolactam, synthetic rubber, carbon black and polystyrene units, and several
producers of plant protection chemicals, operations had ceased entirely on
account of exhaustion of stocks of essential raw materials; and many other
chemical industries were reporting curtailment of output because of short-
age of critical inputs and spare parts needed for essential maintenance of
machinery and equipment. The difficulties of general engineering industries
and metal fabricators were also especially notable. More severe shortfalls
were anticipated for the second half of 1978, by which time imported steel
stocks would have been exhausted. Affected manufacturers expect they
will shut down progressively, unless corrective action is taken expeditiously.
Imports of industrial needs are running substantially below 1977 levels, and
there is urgent need for replenishment. Details of import needs in the
high-priority steel,. copper, aluminum, petrochemical and other chemical
industries are provided in Annex V.
6.        Implications for Export Performance and Prospects.  This situation
has important implications inter alia for export performance. Manufactured
exports declined by about 2 percent in 1977; and a reversal of the trend in
1978 is being hampered by production problems, as well as marketing difficul-
ties. Following the March 1978 devaluation, and despite a small net reduction
of tax rebates on exports, the effective exchange rates for export of most manu-
factures improved by 20-21 percent. To take advantage of export opportunities,



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 6
production must grow sufficiently beyond essential domestic needs, to allow for
proper service to export markets; however before this could happen, domestic
inflation has eroded a large part of the improvement in export profit margins.
7.        The overall position of manufacturing industries in the second half
of 1978, has some favorable aspects for exporting. There is now widespread
recognition among manufacturers and traders of the need to "earn their import
requirements" through exports. There is also a growing recognition that
marginal costs provide the appropriate benchmarks for export pricing, espe-
cially when there is an obvious link between exports and higher levels of
capacity utilization. The Government, on its part, has linked import entitle-
ments for certain categories of inputs to export performance (see Part IV).
8.        Over the medium term, for the expansion of industrial exports, it
should be noted that Turkey has a considerable natural resource base for
industrialization, a comparatively low-wage, skilled and hardworking labor
force, and an advantageous location near both European and Middle Eastern
markets. To expand the contribution of the industrial sector to GDP, and
more so to exports, Turkey will need to shift the balance of its investment
strategy by shifting resources for export production, continue efficient
import-substitution in intermediate goods, and move into capital goods pro-
duction only insofar as this is economically viable. At the same time,
substantial improvements in efficiency and international competitiveness will
have to be achieved in many existing industries, to enable them to meet com-
petition successfully from other sources and provide the thrust for develop-
ment of exports of traditional and new products to both existing and new
markets.
9.        There is an obvious need for some rationalization of the levels
of protection afforded to different industries, to eliminate anomalies and
distortions, to assist the Turkish export drive. There is also need for a
further detailed review of the tax rebates for exports, to ensure that these
compensate for taxes actually paid in respect of expected goods, rather than
serve as approximate adjustments of the exchange rate. The attractions of the
export and domestic markets should be equalized. A number of industries need
to be rationalized through vertical integration, and in some cases special
financial assistance may be needed.
10.       There will also be a need for stricter adherence to international
standards of export quality and performance. Market forces can achieve
appropriate results in some cases, if suitable institutional and financial
support is provided, together with the necessary changes in the levels of
tariffs, duties and tax drawbacks; in other cases, more deliberate industrial
planning and intervention will be needed. Some of the changes necessary for
longer term healthy development in the context of closer relations with the
EEC should be initiated now, when Turkish manufacturers are willing to con-
sider external trade relations more seriously than heretofore.



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 6
11.       Recent export experience points to ways of using more fully the
capabilities of Turkish skilled workers and entrepreneurs. Turkey is demon-
strably capable of competitive efficiency in a variety of fields beyond
conventional textile and leather fabrication. A substantial range of
non-traditional items can be exported, with a little organized. marketing
effort. Serious efforts are underway in some firms to develop export outlets
for products incorporating substantial domestic value, e.g., by-products of
wood-based industries, products of foundries, forges and related mechanical
engineering industries, as well as assembled products such as commercial
vehicles and consumer durables. Besides these items, there are good export
prospects in rubber and plastics products and processed minerals. It should
be possible to achieve growth of manufactured exports at a rate significantly
faster than that of the industrial sector as a whole within the next few
years.  The Government is currently in the process of developing a coherent
policy and institutional framework required to support these efforts in line
with its medium-term development strategy for the Fourth Plan.
B.   Agriculture
12.       Role in the Economy and Recent Performance.  Although agriculture
has declined in relative importance, it is still a major sector of the Turkish
economy, accounting in 1977 for 59 percent of the total value of merchandise
exports and 60 percent of total employment. However, it contributed only 22
percent of GDP in 1977, and value added per worker was less than one-fifth of
that in other sectors combined. The growth of agricultural output accelerated
sharply and averaged 7 percent per annum during 1973-77, as a result of favor-
able weather, increasing use of modern inputs, and expansion of the area under
irrigation from 1.8 to 2.3 million ha.
13.       There are wide differences among regions in the level of agricultural
development, due to both differences in natural resource endowment and the
geographical pattern of past public and private investment in agriculture.
The gross value of agricultural production per person is over twice as high
in the Aegean and Mediterranean regions (where irrigation is widespread
and cotton, tobacco, and fruits are major export crops) as in the Black
Sea, Northeast, and Central East regions (where raising livestock is a major
activity and agriculture is mainly on unirrigated land and for subsistence
purposes). The Marmara, Central North and Central South regions, where cereals,
oilseed crops and livestock are the major sources of farm income, are close to
the national average. Southeast Anatolia remains the poorest region.
14.       Cereals account for about 25 percent of the total value of agricul-
tural production and for 54 percent of the land under cultivation, while
industrial crops (mainly cotton, tobacco, and sugar beets), account for 20
percent of the total value but use only 7 percent of the crop area.
15.       Turkey had good crop years in 1976 and 1977, and growing conditions
have been favorable thus far in 1978. Total agricultural output was about 10
percent larger in 1976 than in 1975, but increased only slightly in 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 5 o7 6
16.       Increased use of modern inputs, and improved cultural practices, are
the major factors responsible for the long-term growth in total crop produc-
tion. Fertilizer consumption increased from only 403,000 tons of plant
nutrients in 1970 to 1,256,000 tons in 1977. Use of plant protection products
increased from 51,000 tons to 73,500 tons over the same period.
17.       The shortage of foreign exchange has had a limited impact on the use
of modern inputs to date, because of the existence of previously imported
stocks. Given adequate foreign exchange, fertilizer consumption is planned to
total 1,523,000 tons of plant nutrients in 1978, which would be worth about
US$470 million at international prices. Use of plant protection materials in
1978, is planned to total almost 74,000 tons, which would be worth US$70 mil-
lion at import prices. Domestic sources of supply have grown substantially
since the early 1960's. However, the fertilizer industry supplied over 40
percent of total consumption in 1977, and the plant protection products indus-
try met only about half the national demand. Capacity utilization levels
in both industries are low, averaging around 50 percent. In fertilizers,
apart from the shortage of imported materials and spares, important reasons
have been power shortages, mechanical breakdowns, and personnel problems. In
plant protection, lack of foreign exchange is the principal factor. There
would be economic advantage in increasing capacity utilization to the extent
possible, and the estimates of input requirements assume a degree of improve-
ment. Much more important, however, is the need to meet the input require-
ments of the agricultural sector, through import of either raw materials (for
the domestic industries) or finished products. More importantly, the stocks
are going to be rapidly depleted. With such depletion in the supply of fertili-
zers and plant protection products, total agricultural output in the crop year
1978/79 and 1979/80 could be severely affected, especially the production of
cotton, tobacco, hazelnuts, citrus and other fruits, which are major sources
of foreign exchange earnings. Details of import needs for fertilizers and
plant protection materials are given in Annex V.
18.       Agricultural exports continue to be the major source of foreign
exchange earnings for Turkey, though their proportion in total exports is
slowly decreasing due to gains made by manufactured exports. In 1970,
agricultural exports were 75 percent of the total exports; by 1977 their
share had declined to 59 percent. Major items in agricultural exports are
industrial crops such as cotton and tobacco, nuts, fruits and vegetables and
cereals and pulses. Lately, wheat has become a major export item as Turkey
builds up significant stocks following the good harvest over the last three
years. Wheat exports, however, have been partly hampered by transportation
bottlenecks and earlier due to inadequate sales efforts.
19.       Development Problems and Prospects.  Responsibility for agricultural
planning and policy-making is diffused among a large number of agencies which
are insufficiently coordinated. Only 13 percent of total public investments
were made in the agricultural sector during the 1963-75 period, as Turkey has
placed high priority on industrialization in its development strategy. Half
of the investments were for irrigation projects; but because of lagging on-
farm development, approximately 0.5 million of the 2.8 million ha. for which



ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 6
irrigation water is available are not used to grow crops under irrigation.
The future investment balance between long-gestation major new projects
and fuller use of existing headworks therefore needs careful consideration.
More generally, a shift to quicker-yielding agricultural projects is needed.
Excessive plowing of steep hillsides, severe overgrazing of remaining pastures,
and destruction of vegetation on large tracts of previously forested land have
caused much erosion and deterioration of soil resources. As much as one-
quarter of the total land area of 78 million ha. should be shifted from
soil-depleting to soil-conserving uses to build up soil productivity. There
is also an urgent need to provide more resources for improved extension
services and guidance on irrigation techniques, cropping patterns and other
improved practices.
20.       There is still a large potential for expanding crop production,
both by expanding the irrigated area, and by using more fertilizer (consump-
tion in 1977 was only about 78 kg/ha. of cultivated land) and plant protection
materials, and adopting better cultural practices.  Turkey can expect to be
self-sufficient in foodgrains in years with normal weather. With higher
foodgrain yields, more land can be shifted to feed and forage crops for
livestock, thereby conserving soil and increasing employment. There is a
large potential for increasing the output of livestock products, which has
grown by only 2.5 percent per annum over the last decade, by better feeding,
breeding and health care.  Rising domestic production can provide the basis
for an expanded animal products processing industry. Even so, Turkey is
likely to continue to import some meat and dairy products.
21.       Both the input subsidies and the support prices provided on a
large scale have tended to benefit larger farmers more than smaller ones. The
prices of some of the inputs used in agriculture need to be raised to recover
a greater proportion of their costs, as the present degree of subsidization
probably exceeds that required to stimulate their efficient utilization.
Irrigation water charges need to be raised, and the Goverpment decreed this
in early August. Official prices to farmers for certain pesticides have
not been increased since 1971. Retail prices to farmers for fertilizer were
increased in 1974, then reduced substantially in 1975, and have not been
changed since.  They are now less than half of manufacturing costs, and the
agricultural supply organization lost TL 5.0 billion ($0.3 billion) in 1977
on distributing about 90 percent of all fertilizer sold to farmers. However,
an increase is anticipated in the near future. Besides, retail prices for
tractors, implements, fuel, and certified seeds have been gradually increased
to cover rising costs, although fuel costs remain below world prices.
22.       Support prices on farm products have been increased each year to
improve farm incomes, without adequate attention to the level and
structure of foreign and domestic demand and supply. The Government has
experienced large financial losses under these programs, amounting in 1977 to
a total of TL 5.6 billion ($0.3 billion) for wheat, tobacco and meat and fish
products. It has therefore decided to make only moderate increases in support
prices in 1978 and subsequent years, and intends to rationalize the relative
price support structure. The recent devaluation should make agricultural
products more competitive in export markets, provided increases in support
prices are kept in line with international price movements, and provided
actual prices are not pulled above support prices by domestic excess demand.



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 7
ALLOCATION OF THE LOAN AND
REQUIREMENTS OF INDUSTRIES TO BE ASSISTED
The proposed loan allocations are provided below, and their rationale
explained in subsequent paragraphs.
I. Loan Allocations
A.   For agriculture                                   Not less than $40 million
1.   Materials for production of fertilizers
phosphate rock
phosphoric acid
ammonia
sulphuric acid
sulphur
2.   Plant protection chemicals and their
raw materials
B.   Import requirements for exported goods            Not less than $30 million
C.   Spare parts for manufacturing industries
and for crop-spraying aircraft                   Not less than $20 million
D.   For industry                                              Up to $60 million
1.   Steel industry
billet
coil
tinplate
tin
other steel products, including alloy and
special steels for engineering industries,
such as machinery, commercial vehicles,
internal combustion engines, pumps and
valves
2.   Copper
concentrate
metal
3.   Aluminum
ingot
wire
4.   Petrochemicals and chemicals
feedstocks
intermediates
other chemicals and dyes for cotton,
woollen and synthetic textiles, leather
tanning, plastics, adhesives, paints
and glass
TOTAL                                                          $150 million



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 7
II. Rationale for the Allocations
A.   Industry
I.   Metal-based industries
1.        Metal producing and using industries, represent a very rapidly
growing segment of the Turkish economy. They account for over one-third of
the total contribution of industry to GNP and employ over 280,000 workers.
About 60 percent of the subsector is privately owned; the remaining 40 per-
cent is accounted for by state enterprises.
2.        Steel.  In 1977, the metal-based industries used almost 4 million
tons of steel. The table below, indicates briefly the evolution of steel
consumption, domestic production, and imports:
Year                  1973       1975       1976       1977
('0o0 tonsT
Total Consumption   1,826       2,980      3,462     3,925
Domestic Supply        698      1,257      1,799      1,474
Imports              1,128      1,723      1,663     2,451
3.        Demand for the current year is estimated at about 4.3 million tons.
It was earlier hoped that domestic supply would increase sharply in 1978, but
it now appears that actual increases will be small, because of delays in
completion and commissioning of new installed equipment. Imports therefore
need to be at least maintained at the 1977 level, if shortages are to be
avoided. The steel import need is therefore likely to be higher than the
provision in the Government's Annual Program for 1978, which envisaged
imports of 1.7 million tons at an estimated cost of $500 million. The
requirements for 1979, will depend on the production build-up from new equip-
ment. Much of the material imported in the first half of 1978 seems to have
been against short-term suppliers' credits, for which some payments are now
overdue. The pipeline of supplies will therefore dwindle rapidly, unless at
least some payments are now made. While a few firms may have adequate stocks,
for most firms, stocks will begin to run out well before the end of 1978.
Taking account of the lead times required for purchase and delivery, the
early allocation of funds for steel imports is a high priority.
4.        In this context, the pattern of demand for the principal product
categories has been reviewed to identify the products and uses which have
the highest priority, because they have the greatest impact on capacity
utilization, export industries, employment and the value of output. Taking
account of the needs of enterprises producing: agricultural machinery and
equipment, industrial machinery, process equipment and vessels, storage tanks
and vessels, power generating and distributing equipment, compressors, pumps,
valves, locomotives, boilers, pipes and fittings, industrial and commercial



ANNEX V
Page 3 of7
transport vehicles, railway rolling stock and equipment, boat building and
repair, containers and packaging, including the packaged foods industry (which
exports part of its output), consumer durables, and the needs of the civil
engineering industry, the highest priority categories of steel imports are as
follows: (i) hot rolled coil for use as such, or to be further rolled for
various purposes; (ii) billets for production of various non-flat products;
(iii) other semi-finished and finished steel products for engineering indus-
tries; (iv) alloy and special steels; and (v) tinplate and tin (for tinplate).
5.        Copper.  Turkey has installed capacity for smelting and refining
over 40,000 tons of copper annually, which is sufficient for its current
domestic needs. It was a marginal exporter until 1974. Ore production and
concentration capacity is, however, presently insufficient to support full
utilization of smelting and refining capacity. As domestic demand for copper
has grown, there has been an increasing need to import copper concentrate. It
is estimated that in 1978, Turkey needs about 40,000 tons of copper, of wlhich
only 26,000 tons or 65 percent can be produced from domestic concentrate. The
cost of importing the 50,000 tons of copper concentrate required to fully
utilize installed capacity for smelting and refining, is expected to be $19
million in 1978, and about the same again in 1979, compared with about $10
million in 1977. This is cheaper than importing refined copper.
6.        Copper is used principally for electrical purposes in Turkey.  About
75 percent of domestic consumption is for wire production. The rest is used
for producing various alloys such as brass, bronze, etc., which are used for
industrial wearing surfaces as well as for ornamental goods, some of which aire
exported. There is very little scope for compression of demand without dis
location in a number of both small and large user industries, and hence ther-
is a strong prima facie case for import of copper concentrate.
7.        Aluminum.  The aluminum industry was established in the early 1970s,
and production in 1977 was about 50,000 tons. Turkey used about 69,000 tons
of aluminum products in 1976 and 83,000 tons in 1977. Demand is expected
to increase to 95,000 tons in 1978 and 109,000 tons in 1979. Under normal
circumstances, Turkey could produce aluminum to the extent of capacity, and
then export different products in response to market demand and prices. But
the situation is distorted because of the current shortage of electric power.
In the circumstances, the Government considers it necessary to cut back
aluminum output, to free power for other uses in which it can generate much
greater value added and employment. The demand for aluminum will therefore
have to be met by somewhat larger imports in 1978 (65,000 tons at an estimated
cost of $53 million) and 1979 (79,000 tons at an estimated cost of $65 mil-
lion), than would be needed if domestic capacity were being fully used. On
balance, the chosen strategy makes good sense in the short run; in the longer
run, power generation capacity will be increased to meet the needs of other
industries, as well as of aluminum smelters.



ANNEX V
Page 4 of 7
8.        Aluminum is used principally for electrical conductors, particularly
high tension transmission; profiles for various purposes; castings for indus-
trial uses; and sheet and foil. It is not practical to isolate any significant
uses as low priority ones which may be eliminated without economic disad-
vantage. To the extent possible, market demand in excess of domestic produc-
tion should be met through imports.
II. Petrochemicals and other chemicals
9.        The chemicals industry in Turkey can be conveniently divided into
two main parts. Basic petrochemicals are supplied solely by an SEE, Petkim.
The rest of the industry, consisting of many mostly privately owned companies,
produces other petrochemicals, synthetic fibers, dyes, inorganic chemicals and
glass.
10.       Petkim has a small, but fairly modern, plant at Yarimca and produces
ethylene (55,000 tpy), polyethylene L.D. (27,000 tpy), PVC (42,000 tpy), poly-
styrene (15,000 tpy), DDB (20,000 tpy), caprolactam (25,000 tpy), synthetic
rubber (SB - 30,000 tpy; CB - 20,000 tpy), and carbon black (30,00 tpy).
Petkim is normally able to operate its main plants at high capacities (85-95
percent), but has had to restrict, and more recently to close down, operations
of the polystyrene, caprolactam, synthetic rubber, and carbon black plants
because of lack of foreign exchange to import basic feedstocks. Even when
Petkim was operating all its plants, it could meet only about half the
Turkish demand for its products, and imports have accounted for a growing
share of national consumption. It is therefore building a larger complex
(300,000 tpy of ethylene) at Aliaga, which should start production in 1981.
Between 1975-77, Petkim sales rose from TL 2.2 to TL 6.5 billion, with imports
of finished products accounting for 27 and 46 percent respectively of total
sales. Adding to these figures the import needs of Petkim's manufacturing
units, the import dependence was 40 and 52 percent respectively of sales
value. Petkim's total import bill for 1977, was $121 million, of which raw
materials and spares accounted for $23 million and imported finished petro-
chemicals for $98 million.
11.       For 1978, Petkim is seeking imports costing $113 million, of
which $40 million would be for raw materials and spares and $73 million for
finished petrochemicals; the higher demand for raw materials is accounted for
by increased, even though underutilized, capacities of some plants; this in
turn will reduce the need for import of finished products. For 1979, the
cost of imports is expected to increase by about 15 percent to $130 million.
12.       The petrochemicals supplied by Petkim to downstream users (from its
own production and imports) sustain some 1,500 factories, of which about 900
employed more than 10 workers each in 1975. The corresponding estimate for
total employment in the user industry in 1977 is over 30,000, and the value of
its investment is estimated at over TL 3 billion.



ANNEX V
Page 5 of 7
13.       The rest of the chemicals industry comprises some producers of
petrochemical products, e.g., formaldehyde, acrylic, epoxy, alkyd, polyester
and other resins; polysulphinols, polyurethane and PVA emulsions; plastic
additives, plastifiers, emulsions, etc.; synthetic fibers; some inorganic
chemicals, dyes and other miscellaneous products. This is a heterogeneous
group, with few common characteristics other than the relatively small (though
not necessarily uneconomic) size of individual units and high import depen-
dence. The import requirements of these varied manufacturers exceed $200 mil-
lion in 1978. It is difficult to estimate with any reliability, the percentage
of capacity that could be utilized with this volume of imports, as the concept
of capacity in many of the plants in this group is very flexible. Domestic
processing often involves relatively simple and limited operations of mixing,
blending and packaging; and capacities can be easily extended in response to
demand. In a sample of cases, industrialists claimed to be able to increase
output by 200-400 percent, if supplies and markets were available. They
recognized that the Government could not allocate foreign exchange resources
for such a major expansion, and are therefore considering ways in which they
may be able to "earn" at least a part of their requirements through exports.
There is substantially greater scope for export of, for instance, paints,
adhesives, plastic plastifiers and emulsions, than realized earlier.
B.   Agriculture
I.   Fertilizers
14.       The use of fertilizers has grown rapidly since the mid-1960s.  The
average annual growth rate of consumption exceeded 25 percent between 1965-70
and was 17 percent during the next five years. Actual consumption of plant
nutrients amounted to about 1.14 million tons in 1976 and 1.25 million tons
in 1977 (78 kg/ha. of cultivated land). Consumption is expected to grow by
at least 10 percent per annum for the next several years.
15.       The Turkish fertilizer industry has grown steadily since its start
in the 1960's. It now has an installed capacity for about 2.6 million tons
of finished products per year; factories for another 1.9 million tons are
due for commissioning in 1978. About 56 percent of the total capacity (2.5
million tpy) is owned by four public sector enterprises, of which the largest,
Azot Sanayii, accounts for 1.8 million tpy; and the remaining 2.0 million tpy
capacity is shared by four private sector companies, of which the two largest
account for over 1.4 million tpy. However, actual production during the past
five years has ranged between only 1.0 and 1.5 million tons of finished prod-
uct. Apart from shortages of imported materials and spare parts, important
reasons for these low levels of capacity utilization have been power shortages,
mechanical breakdowns and personnel problems. To meet essential requirements,
the country has had to import large quantities of finished fertilizers. In
the past five years, imports have comprised about 65 percent of the N supply,
40 percent of the P205 supply and all of the K20 supply. In 1977, imports of
finished fertilizers cost about US$215 million, and in 1978 the figure will be
substantially larger if the Government can find the resources required.



ANNEX V
Page 6 of 7
16.       Moreover, the domestic industry depends heavily on imported raw
materials and intermediates--potash and phosphates as well as ammonia--
which cost the country about $97 million in 1976; the corresponding imports
were lower in 1977 at $76 million, because of foreign exchange constraints.
It is noteworthy, however, that the foreign exchange cost of raw materials is
only about half that of imports of finished fertilizers with equivalent plant
nutrients. In spite of the difficulties and the relative inefficiency of
Turkish fertilizer plants, it is therefore economically advantageous to
utilize their capacity to the fullest possible extent, and to import only the
unfulfilled needs in finished form. Capacity utilization should accordingly
at least be maintained, and increased wherever possible, despite the constrain-
ing factors mentioned above. To do this, needs for imported raw materials for
1978 and 1979, are estimated at $115 million and $145 million respectively.
Imports of materials for the next several years are expected to exceed the
average level of recent years by a substantial margin because two new large
plants, one for urea and another for CAN, have soon to be commissioned and
brought to designed capacity.
17.       The use of fertilizers in Turkey is still well below needs, despite
rapid growth during the last 12-15 years. Even with present patterns of use,
increased consumption is amply justified. About 35 percent of total fertilizer
consumption is presently directed to wheat production, which is a major export
earner; field trials show that, for every kilogram of plant nutrient used, 9
or 10 kilograms of wheat can be produced. At current import prices for fer-
tilizers and export prices for Turkish wheat, this implies a gain of about
400 percent. Cotton is the second largest user of fertilizers, accounting for
about 13 percent of total consumption, and corresponding figures indicate a
gain of more than 450 percent. Other major crops for which fertilizers are
used, include tobacco, fruits and hazel nuts--all important exports--and sugar
beet.
II. Plant Protection Materials
18.       Use of plant protection materials is an essential complement to the
growing use of fertilizers. Annual consumption in recent years has averaged
about 73,000 tons, having doubled in the past decade. The domestic industry
met about half the demand in 1977, but had a capacity utilization level of
only around 50 percent, due to lack of foreign exchange for import of inputs.
The cost of imported finished products and raw materials for domestic formula-
tion was $46 million and $54 million in 1976 and 1977 respectively, with
finished products accounting for about two-thirds. For 1978, essential
imports will cost $56 million, of which about $17 million is for raw materials
and the rest for finished products. For 1979, the need will rise to $66
million, with the major part of the increase allocated to raw materials; but
after taking account of changes in prices, varieties, and stocks, net consump-
tion in 1979 may not be much more than in 1976-77.
19.       Imported materials account for only about half the value of the
industry's output, so that using given foreign exchange resources to import
raw materials, makes a larger contribution to supply than that achieved by
importing finished products. However, the agricultural sector needs a wide



ANNEX V
Page 7 of 7
range of products. Domestic producers can increase output of the varieties
for which they have established capacities; but problems of technology and
proprietary rights are specially difficult in this industry, and there will
be a continuing need for import of other finished products and for technical
expertise.
20.       There is scope for improving plant protection practices, especially
for cotton. The necessary protection can be provided with fewer applications
of specific combinations of pesticides, and at lower cost, than under current
practices of massive use of broad-spectrum pesticides.  Some economies are
also possible in the use of herbicides for weed control in wheat fields. But
even without these further economies, the cost benefit ratios for plant pro-
tection measures currently range between 1:4 and 1:10, depending on the crop.
Because present losses of major crops on account of pests and weeds, range
between 25-35 percent, even in the relatively well cared for cultivated areas,
there is a strong case for maintenance--and increase, to the extent possible--
of supplies of plant protection materials. There is also a need for better
extension services to help farmers capture the achievable savings in materials
use and labor for application.
G.   Spare Parts
21.       While the supply of raw and intermediate materials and key commodi-
ties would help meet the basic short-term needs of the high priority indus-
tries selected, there is also a critical need for spare parts and consumable
stores for these industries. The cost would, in most cases, be quite small,
but inability to import in good time because of lack of foreign exchange, is
seriously disrupting operations and capacity utilization. In addition, the
delivery system for important plant protection materials depends on the use
of specialized light aircraft for crop spraying. There is an urgent need for
about $1.5 million worth of imported spare parts for the existing fleet, with
the same priority as for the plant protection materials themselves. It is
difficult to assess closely the individual spare parts needs of various sectors,
and a lump sum allocation that would provide the requisite flexibility to the
licensing authorities would be most appropriate.



ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 8
TURKEY'S IMPORT REGIME AND LICENSING
1.        General.  Turkey's imports are regulated by a regime introduced in
1958 and changed mainly in details since. The State Planning Organization in
consultation with other Ministries prepares annual import programs which form
part of the economy-wide Annual Programs. The Ministry of Commerce is primarily
responsible for trade control, but relies on Chambers of Commerce and Industry
for advice, and on other Ministries for substantive approval, in respect of a
large proportion of import allocations. The Ministry of Customs and Monopolies
deals with customs and other similar duties on imports, in collaboration with
the Ministry of Finance.
2.        The most distinctive features of the import regime are:  a signifi-
cant proportion of imports is free of restriction in normal times; non-
essential imports are excluded through the use of positive lists; and complete
quantitative protection of domestic production against foreign competition is
provided, in that imports are permitted only to the extent Turkish output
cannot meet demand. The stages of the import licensing process are relatively
numerous, but well understood, and the time involved for typical transactions
is not excessive, except under the quota list with its semi-annual cycle (see
below).
3.        Until the 1977 foreign exchange crisis, an import license from the
Ministry of Commerce was sufficient for a successful application for approval
of a foreign exchange transfer by the Central Bank.  Since then and up to now,
however, Ministry of Finance approval of special foreign exchange transfers
has become the effective allocation device, although the Ministry of Commerce
continues to issue import licenses. The Ministry of Finance has had to give
overwhelming weight to short-term considerations, especially in cases where
imports are not self-financing, while the import regime is based on longer-term
development considerations. Although restrictions on transfers have been eased
slightly in May 1978 with the inflow of new external funds, a return to nor-
malcy is bound to be gradual, and may not affect all categories of imports
equally at any time. If total imports threaten to exceed what can be financed,
the normalization of transfers will be slowed.
4.        Import Lists.  Turkey's imports are grouped, for the most part,
into three lists:  the Liberalized I, Liberalized II, and Quota lists.  The
existence of the liberalized lists has led to imports exceeding the program
totals in some years. Nearly all remaining imports are financed by project
credits. The evolution of the balance among these lists is shown below for
the period since 1970; the most important development has been the increase up
to 1977 in the proportion of imports falling under the two liberalized lists,
and the proposed reversal of liberalization in 1978 under the impact of the
foreign exchange shortage and a change in the composition of imports.



ANNEXVI
Page 20 :oX
1970     1974      1977      1978
Imports (US$ million)                 948    3,777    5,796    5,000-
Percentage falling under:
Liberalized I and II               38.6      66.8    70.0       55.0
Quota                              20.3      18.5    20.3       22.0
Project credits                    11.9       6.2      5.2       16.0
Other                              29.2       8.5      4.5        7.0
1/ As proposed originally in the Annual Program
in February 1978.
5.        The Liberalized I list comprises raw materials and spares which
are non-competitive with Turkish production. There are no restrictions as to
the quantity and quality of such commodities that may be imported; some of
them are also covered by EEC agreements forbidding quantitative restrictions
on their import from the EEC. The importer pays a 30 percent guarantee
deposit. When the full TL equivalent of the value of his imports is lodged
with the Central Bank, the latter in normal times would promptly issue the
necessary foreign exchange authorization, on a first-come-first-served basis.
The administrative process under the Liberalized I list from application to
authorization would normally take about one week. With the current foreign
exchange difficulties, however, transfers for most items under this list have
been held up.
6.        The Liberalized II list comprises specified commodities competitive
with Turkish production. It also has a general category for the import needs
of exporters, including raw materials, intermediate goods and packaging
materials (but see para. 9 below). Import licenses are issued by the Ministry
of Commerce, after substantive approval of the Ministry responsible for the
particular commodity or industry, to which applications are made: in about
90 percent of cases this is the Ministry of Industry, while almost all of the
remaining applications are examined by the Ministries of Agriculture, Energy,
or Health. Public sector imports also need the approval of the Ministry of
Finance. The Ministry of Industry grants approval to the applications of
industrialists for imports for their own use before those of importers (mer-
chants). It prorates available supplies for industrialists in proportion to
their production capacity, recent performance and export potential; importers
receive allocations on a first-come, first-served basis while supplies last,
and pay a 15 percent prior guarantee deposit. Certain items on the Liberalized
II list are covered by agreements with the EEC, under which quantitative
restrictions on their import from the EEC are not allowed. Although this list
is no longer published, its provisions remain in effect. The administrative
process under the Liberalized II list would normally require 4-5 weeks from
application to granting of an import license, At present, however, corres-
ponding foreign exchange transfers for most items are being held up.



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
7.        The Quota list consists of global quotas, with four major allocations
and a host of minor ones; the totals are binding. Imports for the investment
requirements of private industry are approved by the Ministry of Commerce,
using the criteria of capacity, past levels of imports, and exports in ranking
applications.  Imports for the investment requirements of the public sector
are approved by the Ministry of Finance. Those for intermediate materials for
manufacturing industries, and components for assembly industries, are approved
by the Ministry of Industry. Among the minor allocations is one for export
promotion (see para. 9 below). Separate quotas are fixed for industrialists
and for importers, with industrialists paying a guarantee deposit of 2-1/2
percent and importers 10 percent of import values.
8.        The Chambers of Commerce and Industry (to which all enterprises
belong) play a significant role in import allocations under the quota list.
Twice a year they aggregate applications and compare them to the records of
production capacity which they maintain, to provide the basis for equitable
allocation among firms.



