Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.4086
PROGRAM PERFORMANICE AUDIT REPORT
TURKEY: FIRST PROGRAM LOAN
(LOAN 1627-TU)
August 27, 1982
Operations Evaluation ])epartment
This document has a restric-ted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
IMF       -        International Monetary Fund
SAL       -        Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR       -       Special Drawing Right
SPO       -        State Planning Organization
TL        -        Turkish Lira
TSKB      -        Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
TL per US$
1977 March                    16.50
September                17.50
1978 March                    25.25
1979 June                     47.10
1980 January                  70.00
August                   80.00
December                 91.75
1981 April                    98.20
June                    107.50
September               121.10
1982 January                 138.00
April                   147.30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TURKEY: FIRST PROGRAM LOAN
(LOAN 1627-TU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .......          ...................................................
Basic Data Sheet        ..........................   .......................
Highlights          ....................................... ................       iv
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
I.    BACKGROUND .     ............................................           1
II.    LOAN OBJECTIVES AND INSTRUMENTS ......          .................       3
III.    LOAN IMPLEMENTATION .........        ...........................        4
Slow Disbursements     .................................. .           4
The Exchange Rate      ................................... .          5
Other Measures to Encourage Exports .................       .         6
Deficient Repcrting      ................................. .          7
IV.    LOAN IMPACT           ............................ .                    8
Capacity Utilization ........       .........................         9
Impact on Exports          ....................................     10
Capital Inflow.'s       ......................................       10
Timirg of the Loan          ...................................      11
V .   CONCLUSION . ............................................              11
Appendices
Table 1 - Percentage Change in Some Selected Variables ......                13
Table 2 - Currect Account of the Balance of Payments ....         ....       14
Table 3 - Capital Account of the Balance of Payments ....         ....       15
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.    Background .............................................              17
1 .  Introduction          ..................................          17
2.  Economic Background ......... ............. ................ .     17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenis may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
II.    History and Features of the Loan .......................              18
1.   Loan Justification     ........ ................... . .          18
2.  Loan History ...............         .......................      19
3.  Loan Objectives and Features           .......................    19
III.    Impact of the Loan ........*** .......................                21
1.   Background - Economic Development in 1979 ....       ......      21
2.  Balance of Payments .. ..         ...........................     22
3.  Exports ....*******e******...........  ......  ............       25
4.  Output and Capacity Utilization .....          ...............    28
5.  Public and Private Sector Balance .........       * ........      30
6.  Use of Counterpart Funds ........................                 30
IV.    Implementation Arrangements     .............................         31
1.   Reporting on Export Performance and Policies .......             31
2.  Procurement ......... ..... .s..e    ......................       31
3.  Disbursements ........ ......... ..   ..........................  32
V.    Conclusions ................................ ... .........            34
VI.    Lessons Learned and Applied in Subsequent Loans ........              35
Annexes:
1.    Letter of Minister of Finance .....        .....................      37
2.   Memo to Mr. E. Asfour on Turkey - Program Loan
Discussion           ...........................................    43
3.    Program Loan Allocations and Payment Requests ..........              49



PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TURKEY: FIRST PROGRAM LOAN
(LOAN 1627-TU)
PREFACE
This Program Performance Audit Report evaluates the first program
loan extended by the Bank to Turkey during a relationship that has spanned
three decades of intermii:tent, but often active lending.    This loan was made
in late 1978 at a time of extreme balance of payments stringency, and proved
in retrospect to be a precursor of a series of Structural Adjustment loans
that began in 1980 and still continues. Loan 1627-TU for US$150 million was
approved by the Board on November 7, 1978, signed the following day and became
effective a week later, on November 16.    By March 24, 1980, it had been fully
disbursed.   Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement had set the closing date at
June 30, 1980 "or such later date as the Bank shall establish."
The present Program Performance Audit Report comprises a Program
Completion Report (PCR) prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Region (EMENA), and a Program Performance Audit Memorandum (PPAM), prepared by
the Operations Evaluation Department    (OED).   The latter was undertaken in
conjunction with the evaluation of the First Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan
1818-TU) and its Supplement (Loan 1915-TU) which has been issued as a separate
OED report (Report No. 4015, dated June 30, 1982).     In preparing the PPAM for
this Program Loan, research was carried out involving examination of Bank
files and discussions with staff members in the Bank as well as the Fund, and
a field mission visited Turkey in October 1981 for the evaluation of SAL. In
Turkey, discussions were conducted with the Prime Minister's Office, the
Ministry of Finance, the State Planning Organization (SPO), the Central Bank,
TSKB, commercial banks, Chambers of Commerce and Industry, the private sector,
the academic community and others.    OED is grateful for the help received and
the courtesies extended to that mission.
The PCR, written in November 1980, provides a candid and thorough
review of the Program Loan, its antecedents and objectives and provides an
assessment of its success and shortcomings.      The PPAM, written more than a
year later, concerns itself with the broad findings of the PCR, but attempts
also to throw some light on certain aspects of the operation which the PCR did
not fully cover. The PPAM, on the whole, concurs with the conclusions reached
in the PCR and, in some respects, and with the benefit of a longer perspec-
tive, goes even further In concluding that the impact of the Program Loan was
positive, particularly in paving the way toward the more fundamental reforms
which have been effected since January 1980 and which have become part of the
structural adjustment process supported later by Bank lending.






- ii -
Copies of the draft report were sent on April 29, 1982 to the
borrower for comment.   The comments OED received (dated July 20) covered both
audits for this Programa Loan and for the First Structural Adjustment Loan
and Supplement.    Since the PPAR for the latter operation had already been
issued, borrower's comments on both PPARs are being circulated as a separate
Addendum to the two audits.



I



- iii -
PROGRAMI PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
TURKEY--FIRST PROGRAM LOAN
(LOAN 1627-TU)
PROJECT DATA
(US$ Million)
As of 03/31/82
Original Disbursed Cancelled Repaid Outstanding
Loan 1627-TU                 150.0      150.0        -         -          -
Cumulative Loan Disbursement
FY79         FY80
(i)  Planned                        9O.oZa       150.0
(ii)  Actual                         76.8         150.0
(iii)  (ii) as % of (i)               85%          100%
Original Loan Dates      Actual Loan D)ates
Board Approval                    11/07/78                11/07/78
Loan Agreement                    11/08/78                11/08/78
Effectiveness                     12/08/78                11/16/78/b
Loan Closing                      06/30/80                03/26/80Lc
MISSION DATA
Month/        No. of     No. of      Man-      Date of
Year         Weeks       Persons     weeks     Report
Identification           03/78          -           -           -         -
Preappraisal          04/17-05/78       -           -           -         -
Appraisal             04/17-05/78     2-1/2          -          -       05/26/78
Supervision I            04/79          1            3          3       06/05/79
Supervision II           07/79          1           1           1       08/16/79
Supervision III            -            -           -           -         -
Supervision IV                          -           -           -
Supervision V              -            -           -           -         -
Completion               06/80          -           -           -       11/12/80
/a   From the combined President's and Staff Appraisal Reports.    Controller's
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements of Loans indicates:
"Balance indeterminate."
/b   Or earlier if conditions of effectiveness satisfied.
/c   According to Controller's Department.






- iv -
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TURKEY: FIRST PROGRAM LOAN
(LOAN 1627-TU)
HIGHLIGHTS
In retrospect, this is judged to have been a successful opera-
tion that met the major objectives of the loan, namely a quick transfer of
resources, preventing further capacity underutilization, helping the borrower
to effect needed adjustments in a period of critical shortage of foreign
exchange, and paving the way for a fundamental and long-delayed reorientation
of macro-economic policies that appear now to be alleviating Turkey's balance
of payments difficulties. Capital inflows into Turkey seem also to have been
encouraged since this operation.
Three principal findings which deserve to be highlighted are:
(a) the good timing of the operation in terms of Turkey's balance of payments
situation and the need to initiate an adjustment process; (b) while it is
desirable to identify items to be procured under program loans, particularly
for the purpose of monitoring loan disbursement and to provide a basis for
assessing impact on industry and capacity utilization, too much effort need
not be expended in this regard since in the final analysis funds are fungible;
and (c) requirements of the borrower must not be defined so precisely as
to defeat their objective:      instead of obligating the borrower to report
regularly on export performance, the obligation in this case was for specified
reports on exports to be communicated to the Bank when these reports were
produced. However, as these specific reports failed to materialize they could
not be made available to the Bank (PPAM1, paras. 15 and 16).






PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TURKEY: FIRST PROGRAM LOAN
(LOAN 1627-TU)
I. BACKGROUND
1.        The story has often been told (not least in Bank documents on
Turkey) of Turkey's special approach to economic development, its achievements
and shortcomings.11     The economic strategy that characterized Turkey's
development until January 1980, had as an integral feature an over-valued
exchange rate that discouraged exports.     Little importance was attached to
selling abroad, as Turkish enterprises found the highly protected domestic
market quite rewarding.    The capital-intensive industry that developed could
offer only limited emiployment to Turkey's surplus population which found
temporary relief as gueast workers in the industries of Western Europe in the
sixties and early seventies.     Two-thirds of exports by value in 1978 were
agricultural primary products, and the remainder was dominated by textiles.
2.        From about 1974 onwards Turkey began to experience serious balance
of payments difficulties as it had increasingly become dependent on imports
of raw materials, fuel and intermediate goods, essential to feed its industry
and agriculture, but had failed to develop the capacity to earn the foreign
exchange necessary to pay for these imports.      Exports were hampered by the
overvalued Lira, administrative controls, insufficient incentives to switch
goods from a profitable domestic market, lack of credit and insurance support,
inadequate marketing and quality standards, and high cost, scarcity and low
quality of many inputs necessary to produce exports.     The recession that hit
Turkey's European trading partners in the mid-seventies constrained their
ability to absorb Turkey's migrant workers, and Turkey's terms of trade
seriously deteriorated, notably on account of the explosions in petroleum
prices in 1973-74 and later in 1979-80.     Despite these difficulties, Turkey
continued to pursue rapid growth, shouldering an excessive investment effort,
financed increasingly by budgetary deficits and Central Bank credits. Arrears
built up on imports and servicing foreign debt.    Sagging international confi-
dence all but put an end to foreign capital inflows. Reduced imports added to
the inflationary pressures, depressing the level of activity and further
limiting exports.   A v:Lcious circle thus developed which was compounded by
political instability and lack of a firm leadership that could face the
painful decisions of economic adjustment.
3.        Although the economic problems of Turkey were clearly structural,
requiring drastic change in fundamental policies, many of these problems
surfaced as short-term difficulties, manifesting themselves in acute foreign
1/   See OED, "Turkey's Structural Adjustment, A Program Performance Audit
Report", op. cit., paras. 1-8.



- 2 -
exchange shortages, high inflation and budgetary deficits.         These called
for stabilization measures, and Turkey sought the support of the IMF in
working out a number of stabilization arrangements.
4.        After an initial attempt to contain the external gap by exchange and
trade restrictions, and after a scheme had backfired to attract deposits from
expatriate nationals in the form of convertible Lira accounts, Turkey adopted
a stabilization program in April 1978 which the IMF supported by a two-year
stand-by arrangement for SDR 300 million, while simultaneously an OECD working
party agreed to reschedule debt service payments, including arrears, amounting
to some US$1.3 billion.L/    Despite the devaluation of the Lira exports con-
tinued to be hampered by rising domestic prices.      The prevailing political
atmosphere contributed to a situation where restraint on domestic demand
proved inadequate and where it "proved difficult to achieve the desired
tightening of budgetary policies or stem the deterioration in the finances of
the State Economic Enterprises."!/     As an indication of Turkey's critical
financial situation at the time, it should be mentioned that total short-term
liabilities of the monetary authorities, including arrears, which had stood at
US$299 million at end-1974, reached US$6,555 million three years later and
were to increase further to US$8,376 million by end-1978 at which time total
external debt exceeded US$14 billion.      While exports stagnated at levels
ranging between US$1.5 billion and US$2 billion a year in the period 1974-77,
imports continued to mount, reaching US$5.8 billion in 1977 when the trade
balance exceeded US$4 billion and the current account balance, at US$3.6
billion, was 7 percent of GNP.   The economic situation in Turkey in late 1978
had become quite critical.
5.        When the Bank decided to extend the Program Loan to Turkey in
November 1978, the Fund was in the middle of reviewing Turkey's compliance
with the conditions of the April stand-by arrangement, and it was clear then
that these conditions were not being met. Later, the 1978 stand-by was
cancelled and replaced in July 1979 by a new one-year stand-by for SDR250
million.    (The latter was followed by a three-year stand-by for SDR1,250
million in June 1980 and this remains effective.) In this series of stabili-
zation programs, as the PCR points out (para. 1.04) adjustment focused on
restraining the growth of aggregate demand and also imports by restrictive
monetary policy, reduction and rationalization of public investment, greater
mobilization of resources through higher prices charged by the State Economic
Enterprises, and a greater effort behind export promotion. Simultaneously an
attempt was made to reschedule much of the short-term obligations in respect
of the external debt into longer term ones.
1/   Aggregate debt relief provided by the OECD consortium countries and
Japan in the three-year period 1978-1980 was US$5,477 million.         See
The Republic of Turkey, Information Memorandum prepared by the Central
Bank of Turkey, April 1981, p. 27.
2/   IMF,    Turkey - Staff Report for the 1981 Article IV Consultation,
(SM/81/178), dated August 24, 1981, p. 2.



- 3 -
6.        Outside the Eramework of the stabilization measures worked out with
the IMF, the Bank sought a longer-term change of policy that would help
improve the balance of payments.     The five-year plan which was to have run
from January 1978 had been postponed for one year in view of the severity of
the economic problem and the difficulty to plan in the prevailing circum-
stances. Political instability also contributed to the uncertainty. However,
the government came ur, with a plan strategy paper which put emphasis on the
encouragement of exports as a new drive for salvaging the economy.       No such
emphasis was present in the current IMF stand-by arrangement.     In the absence
of a firmer framework which was unlikely to materialize for some time, and
anxious to provide expeditious support, the Bank chose to take this fundamen-
tal aspect of the new strategy and make it a cornerstone of the conditionality
attached to the program loan.     The Bank, therefore, required a statement of
intent from the Turkish authorities on measures and policies aiming at export
encouragement and this was given by the Minister of Finance for Turkey in
a letter addressed to t:he President of the World Bank, dated August 23, 1978,
which is attached to the PCR.
II. LOAN OBJECTIVES AND INSTRUMENTS
7.        The loan, made in the spirit of a "Category Four" program loan,l/
had four principal objectives, viz:
(a) to provide a quick transfer of resources to Turkey in an attempt to
maintain essential imports and fill part of a projected 1979 foreign
exchang gap;
(b) consequently, to contribute to increasing capacity utilization in
industry and agriculture, and thus help sustain production and
employment, and enable the government to implement its adjustment
policies;
(c) to facilitate a planned expansion of exports by helping to finance
imported inputs; and
(d) to induce other foreign capital flows into Turkey.
To reach these objectivres, the main instruments agreed upon were the follow-
ing:
(a) specified categories of imports eligible for procurement under the
loan;
1/ Operational Manua:L Statement No. 1.19 (August 1977) identifies four
categories of program loan, namely, for post-war or post-natural-calamity
rehabilitation; for redressing a sudden fall in export earnings; when
otherwise a sharp deterioration in the terms of trade had occurred; and
"cases involving ;tructural constraints or capacity under-utilization."



(b) a drive by the borrower to encourage exports by a variety of
measures outlined in the Minister's letter to the Bank, with a
specific undertaking to match loan disbursements with allocations
from own finance to replenish an existing scheme for export promo-
tion; and
(c) allocation of counterpart funds in local currency to development
projects.
It was agreed that a mid-term review of export policies and measures be
undertaken by the Bank (by April 30, 1979), and that a favorable judgment on
progress was necessary for disbursements to continue after that date.
8.        Eligible import items to be financed under the Loan were high-
priority inputs for the manufacture of fertilizers; plant protection chemicals
and inputs necessary for their production; spare parts for manufacturing
industries and for crop-spraying aircraft; raw materials and intermediate
inputs for an "Import for Export" promotion scheme; also steel, copper,
aluminum, and chemicals and petrochemicals.    Besides, the private sector was
guaranteed at least a third of the loan proceeds.      Reallocation was allowed
under the loan from the industrial to the other categories of permissible
imports but not vice versa.     For greater detail, see PCR, paras. 2.06 and
2.07.
III. LOAN IMPLEMENTATION
9.        Though the primary objective was to make quickly disbursable funds
available to Turkey, the Bank sought to enlarge the impact of the loan by
earmarking its proceeds to the importation of the high priority items listed
in para. 8 above.    Bank staff were aware that if the loan's proceeds were
drawn in 1978 and 1979, the funds would make only a marginal contribution to
the import bill, accounting for some 1.6 percent of the total in each year.
In the event the bulk of the loan (96 percent) was disbursed in 1979 and
covered about 3 percent of the total imports of that year, valued at US$5,069
million, the remainder being disbursed in 1980.     The items identified appear
to have been carefully chosen, particularly with the view of ensuring that
vital subsectors should not fall behind in their contribution to production
and particularly to exports.    The fertilizer and chemical inputs to agricul-
ture were especially important for that sector.
Slow Disbursements
10.       Apprehensions contained in the President's Report (para. 75) regard-
ing the risk of slow disbursements proved justified, though the source of the
risk which had been identified as bureaucratic inertia over import licensing
turned out, in retrospect, to lie largely elsewhere.      The PCR (para. 4.10)
mentions inadequate internal procedures which initially hampered disburse-
ments. But the main reason for delay, as the PCR indicates, was that Turkey's
severe financial troubles had undermined foreigners' confidence and obstructed



- 5 -
the flow of short-term facilities (provided by the foreign commercial banks)
necessary for effecting international trade. Letters of Credit for the
imports financed under the loan had initially to be paid for fully in cash
(PCR, para. 4.06), but: eventually the problem was resolved.      The Bank cor-
rectly observed its formal procedures for disbursements, and could not have
been expected to waive these (as suggested in the PCR, para. 5.05) and advance
funds ahead of procurement.    This is particularly the case as the Government
was reluctant to reveal its difficulties to the Bank (PCR, para. 5.05).        On
the other hand, the suggestion of simplifying procurement provisions espe-
cially regarding large import contracts placed by public sector enterprises
(PCR, para. 4.03) is worthy and appears to have been observed in subsequent
operations.
11.       Before the end of April 1979, the Bank mounted a mid-term review
mission which reported favorably on progress under the loan, and disbursements
continued unhindered.    In December 1979, the Bank responded favorably to a
request by the Borrower to effect a reallocation of loan proceeds away from
industry in favor of agriculture, and away from spare parts in favor of the
Import-for-Export scheme. (Letter in Files dated December 13, 1979.)
The Exchange Rate
12.       Devaluation was not a specific measure emphasized under the loan,
but of course, it was a major instrument if exports were to be successfully
promoted.   As argued before, Turkey tended to maintain an exchange rate for
the Lira which militated against exports and, in addition to tariffs on
imports, resorted to quantitative controls in order to contain imports and to
keep them within reasonable distance of the country's earnings of foreign
exchange on current account and capital inflows. At the time the program loan
was made, the exchange rate had been set at TL 25.25 per US dollar, and in
line with previous practice, had remained at that level while Turkey's export
competitiveness deteriorated as a result of domestic prices rising faster than
international prices.    By end-1978, according to calculations by IMF staff,
the real export-weighted effective exchange rate had reached its worst level
in four years, seriously obstructing the flow of exports.l/
13.       In the spirit of Turkey's undertaking under the Program Loan to
encourage exports, therefore, and to improve export competitiveness, three
(nominal) devaluations of the Turkish Lira were effected during loan imple-
mentation:   a minor one in April 1979 of about 6 percent and two major ones:
1/   See Table 26, p. 62 of Turkey - Recent Economic Developments, (SM/79/58),
dated February 21, 1979.    The real effective exchange rate deteriorated
further until the eve of the June 1979 devaluation.      See IMF, Turkey -
Request for Stand-by Arrangement, (EBS/79/390), dated July 6, 1979, Table
7, p. 14. This result was later corroborated (in respect of exports and
imports combined) in a Bank study entitled, "Turkey:      Industrialization
and Trade Strategy," Report No. 3641-TU, dated February 18, 1982.



32 percent in June 1979, and 100 percent in January 1980.11         Despite the
accelerating inflation in Turkey, (45 percent in 1978; 73 percent in 1979
and 103 percent in 1980,2/) these devaluations, in addition to rebates on
exports, restored by mid-1979 Turkey's export competitiveness roughly to
the reference level of the fourth quarter of 1970.       In the words of an IMF
staff report, this represented "a depreciation in effective export-weighted
terms of about 75 percent since the fourth quarter of 1970, and about 50
percent since the last major adjustment in March 1978."3/      The new level of
exchange rates had more than offset the differential inflation rate between
Turkey and its trading partners that had occurred in the course of 1978-79.4/
Some deterioration in competitiveness did, however, occur in the latter part
of 1979 on account of domestic inflation, but this was virtually offset by the
January 1980 devaluation.5/ Over the life of the program loan, roughly
between end-1978 and mid-1980, a real depreciation of a significant magnitude
took place in the effective exchange rate for the Turkish Lira, and this was a
real achievement in support of the drive to promote exports.
Other Measures to Encourage Exports
14.       The Finance Minister's letter contained a fairly large number of
measures intended to be taken over the medium term with the purpose of promot-
ing exports.   The PCR (para. 3.14) lists those measures which were introduced
in 1979, namely the simplification of the regulations governing the imports-
for-exports scheme and other administrative procedures affecting exporters;
1/   The June devaluation, which set the nominal exchange rate at TL35 per US
dollar, was accompanied by the introduction of a two-tier official market
for foreign exchange which resulted in an "effective" rate of TL47.1 per
US dollar applying to all transactions other than exports of certain
agricultural products, petroleum, petroleum products, and chemical
imports for the production of fertilizer.      Besides the exchange rate,
other incentives were also given to exporting.
2/   As measured by the implicit GNP deflator.
3/   IMF,  Turkey  - Request   for Stand-by Arrangement,    (EBS/79/390),  dated
July 5, 1979, p. 13.
4/   See also Chart 5 on page 66b of IMF, Turkey - Recent Economic Develop-
ments, (SM/81/180), dated August 27, 1981 which adjusts somewhat the
previous measurements.    In this chart, the nominal effective exchange
rate is deflated by a ratio of a consumer price index for Turkey to a
weighted index of trade partners' consumer prices.
5/   Reading from the chart quoted above the "real effective exchange rate"
(quarter 4, 1970=100) had risen to about 158 by end-1978, but fell to
about 110 by mid-1980.



- 7 -
relaxing limitations on foreign capital participation in export-oriented
projects; and adjusting agricultural export prices to encourage production and
export.   Several other reforms mentioned in the letter were introduced after
completion of disbursement, and during implementation of the structural
adjustment loans. There were yet other measures, not mentioned in the letter,
but which were introduced in 1979.    Besides the devaluation of the Lira, the
authorities devised various incentives to exporters. These included a foreign
exchange retention scheme; a risk fund to enable exporters to bid for large
contracts; greater access of exporters to commercial bank credit; interest
rate and tax rebates for exports; an export coordination committee to help
exporters; and incentives introduced on investments for exports.        Some of
these measures were much developed and extended later, and contributed suc-
cessfully to a great expansion of exports in 1981.
Deficient Reporting
15.       Periodic reporting by the borrower on exports was irregular and, as
the PCR mentions (para. 4.01), in contravention of the loan agreement.      The
PCR, however, credits the government with having "instead" intermittently
communicated information on relevant matters to the Bank, particularly to the
"special economic mission" which undertook the mid-term review.
Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement had obligated the borrower to:
(a) "...Promptly after their preparation, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank copies of the quarterly reports prepared by its State
Planning Organization for submission to the Borrower's High Planning
Council on l:he implementation of its program referred to in
Recital A of the Preamble to this agreement.      Such reports shall
include:
(i) an account of actual export performance in relation to the
targets established under said program and under the annual
programs established each year in connection therewith;
(ii)  an evaluation of the Borrower's current export oriented
policy measures and the effectiveness of their implementa-
tion; and
(iii)  recommendations concerning changes to be made in the economic
and finiancial policies of the Borrower to achieve the targets
referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of this Section.
(b) Promptly after the reports referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section have been issued, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a
summary of policy decisions taken on the basis of the recommenda-
tions contained in such reports.



- 8 -
(c)  The Borrower agrees to exchange views with the Bank from time to
time on the quarterly reports, summaries, recommendations and deci-
sions described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section and shall
provide the Bank with all such further information as the Bank may
reasonably request.
16.       This elaborate covenant had the objective of bringing developments
important for loan implementation to the attention of the Bank, with the
purpose of ensuring regular consultation on measures and policies adopted to
address a changing situation.    As Recital A of the loan agreement indicated,
the Bank was anxious to follow up on the "strategies and policies designed to
reestablish...balance of payments equilibrium in the medium term through
measures aiming at increasing substantially Turkey's industrial and agricul-
tural exports."   Such a follow-up was an integral part of the implementation
of the program loan.    The fact that this covenant was honored in the spirit
but violated in the letter shows clearly the drawback of defining the report-
ing requirement in terms of too precise an institutional setting.            The
PCR states (para. 4.01) that since the High Planning Council did not meet
regularly, the State Planning Organization's reports were not submitted to it
every quarter, and therefore all the obligations cited above, that were based
on the regular production of these reports (e.g., their contents, their being
furnished promptly to the Bank, etc.) could not be fulfilled.     More effective
would have been a broadly defined undertaking whereby the borrower furnished
such periodic reports to the Bank without reference to precise institutional
instruments.   The Region responsible for appraisal, in any case, should have
realized that such instruments were bound to be irregular.
IV. LOAN IMPACT
17.       Despite the delay in withdrawals of loan proceeds already mentioned,
the loan was fully disbursed before the original completion date of June 30,
1980. Small as the amount of the loan was in comparison with the import bill
in 1979, it did make a difference to the foreign exchange gap in 1979 and to
the high priority items identified, and thus the loan's principal objectives
appear to have been met.
18.       Although the loan was specifically earmarked for the procurement of
certain imports necessary for identified lines of activity as well as the
promotion of exports, the fact that funds are fungible lessens the importance
of such earmarking.    This is particularly the case if the items concerned
are high-priority ones, likely to be favored under the import regime.        The
President's Report made a case (on grounds of their contribution to produc-
tion) for the identification of these items, which were written into the loan
agreement, and the Bank procedures of disbursements were applied to ensure
that loan proceeds went to finance the specified items.     Paragraphs 3.08 and
3.09 of the PCR discuss the merits and demerits of this approach and the
latter paragraph concludes that "the effort at commodity selection was greater
than really necessary." Without the loan, it is likely that Turkey would have



- 9 -
attempted to maintain the level of its imports of the identified high priority
items, particularly as finance was available for some of them (PCR, para.
3.13). However, in view of the critical foreign exchange situation prevailing
at the time of the loan, it was by no means certain that such essential
imports would flow in anyway in the requisite amounts. On balance, therefore,
particularly from the point of view of facilitating the monitoring of loan
disbursements, and the industry-specific impact on capacity utilization, the
specification of eligible commodities was probably justified.
Capacity Utilization
19.       A main objecl:ive of making funds available for the procurement of
specified imports was, therefore, to promote greater utilization of capacity.
The President's Report had pointed out the slower growth of total industrial
production after 1977, stating that the decline "reflected a decline in the
utilization of installed capacities" (para. 50).    The surveys of the Turkish
Industrialists and Businessmen's Association (TUSIAD), covering "a large
sample" of private firms in industry in and around Istanbul, had indicated
that the estimated capacity utilization was 83 percent in 1976, declining to
56 percent by the end of 1977 (ibid.)
20.       The concept of full-capacity utilization is not a tidy one, and the
measurements of shortialls from it are necessarily fuzzy.         Consequently,
interpretations of underutilization of capacity are often inconclusive.
Excess capacity may be found when additions have just been made to capital
equipment, or where complementary capital units have not yet been fully
balanced. Besides, where there are elements of monopolistic competition (and
there is evidence of concentration in several lines of industry and banking
in Turkey)./, one would expect excess capacity to be a feature of market
equilibrium. The evidence on excess capacity provided by TUSIAD and later by
the Istanbul Chamber of Industry lacks rigor and continuity, and perhaps the
PCR was wise not to attach much significance to it.       Both the President's
Report and the PCR show awareness of the existence of factors other than
import shortages to account for less than full capacity utilization.      Apart
from work stoppages in 1978 and 1979 due to labor unrest, and also shortages
of electricity, (the latter, however, traceable in part to shortages of
petroleum imports, which were not eligible under the loan), underutilization
of capacity may have resulted also from insufficient demand, financial diffi-
culties and other factors.
21.       It appears that average capacity utilization in industry as measured
by the Istanbul Chamber of Industry remained roughly at the same level in
1978 (55.8 percent) as it had been in 1977, but fell further in 1979 (to 45
1/   See I. Pekeli, S. Ilkin, A. Aksoy and Y. Kepenek, Concentration in
Turkish Manufacturing Industry, Middle East Technical University, Ankara,
ESA Working Paper No. 18, December 1980.



- 10 -
percent).   During the last quarter of the life of the loan, i.e., in the
quarter January-March 1980, utilizatin stood at 47.3 percent.      A year later,
this had risen to 56.4 percent.l/
22.       As the PCR indicates (paras. 3.21-3.23) the subsectors benefiting
from the imports eligible under the loan showed a varied record during 1979,
this being, on the whole, consistent with the overall record of industry.
Capacity utilization declined in the subsectors of plant protection chemicals,
copper, petrochemicals and other chemicals, and remained roughly the same in
aluminum.2/ The subsectors showing significant increases in capacity
utilization were fertilizers (both nitrogenous and phosphatic) and steel.
23.       It should be mentioned that manufacturing industry which had led
overall growth before 1977 had settled down to a 2.6 percent growth in 1978
and actually shrank by 5.6 percent and 5.0 percent in real term in 1979 and
1980, respectively. Agriculture also recorded very slow growth in this
period.3/
Impact on Exports
24.       The PCR (para. 3.19) attempts an assessment of the contribution made
by the loan to exports.    It should be remembered that GNP, industrial output
and export volume, all actually declined in 1979, the latter by as much as 16
percent (see Appendix, Table No. 1).     In the absence of precise information
on the linkages between imports of specific items, outputs and exports, it is
difficult to reach firm conclusions about the impact of the loan on exports,
particularly as many other factors were changing also.      It is, however, the
attendant policies of export encouragement, most notably the effective deval-
uation of the Lira, which Turkey adopted in this period that must have had an
impact on exports, albeit after a time lag.
Capital Inflows
25.       Table 3 sets out the capital account of the balance of payments in
the years 1977-80.    It will be seen that net capital inflows in 1979 were
actually a third less in nominal terms than they were in 1978, the latter
1/   Istanbul Chamber of Industry, Research Department "Capacity Utilization
Rates in Industrial Production in 1980", September 1981.
2/   See Table 4, para. 3.21 of the PCR.      the decline in copper production
between 1978 and 1979 shown in this table (as well as the sharp decline
in capacity utilization) is at variance with an increase of 10.4 percent
in copper output in 1979 as depicted in Table 4, p. 9 of Turkey (OECD
Economic Surveys),     March 1981, published by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.
3/   Owing to updating small discrepancies may exist between some of the
numbers used here and those in the PCR.



- 11 -
having been another third below their level in 1977.         In real terms, the
decline was much more precipitous.      Practically all items of capital were
affected, particularly foreign commercial bank lending to Turkey.        But the
tide turned quite remarkably in 1980 when net capital inflow was US$2.3
billion, as compared with US$0.68 billion in 1979.      The springs behind this
rebound can be seen (in the Table) to have begun in 1978, and to have devel-
oped in 1979, affecting program loans, the special assistance under OECD and
notably the debt relief.    While it is not possible to attribute this change
to the impact of the program loan, it cannot be divorced from it either.
Quite early, the Bank seems to have perceived that urgent balance of payments
support of Turkey was desirable and likely to be fruitful, and in this, it was
followed by other donors and lenders.
Timing of the Loan
26.       Should the Bank have come forward with the Program Loan before the
Fund and Turkey had reached a satisfactory agreement?      This question, which
was raised during the Board's discussion of the loan, was addressed by Bank
staff at the time who assured the Board that the Fund was not averse to the
Bank proceeding with the loan, and this view was corroborated to the OED. The
Bank had to act independently from the Fund, and in the circumstances had
appeared to provide Turkey with public support in the international capital
markets that was truly valuable.    The borrower has expressed appreciation of
the Bank's stand at the time, especially as this was followed by an expanded
lending program. Afterwards, the Fund also came through with a revised
stand-by.   It should be emphasized that these were difficult times for the
economic managers of Turkey and that the dialogue on macro-policy with the
Bank had been uneasy ior some time.     In retrospect, the Bank's preparedness
to grant this financial support with few conditions demonstrated sympathy,
declared confidence in Turkey's prospects, and provided a truly needed shot in
the arm and led to improved relations between the Bank and Turkey. In Turkey,
the expansion of the Bank's lending program at that time was singled out as
the most significant contribution the Bank made towards the country's economic
recovery. The PCR perhaps leans a little to the pessimistic side in reporting
(para. 3.16) that "the consensus of Government officials interviewed was that
the existence of the program loan and of the policy dialogue on exports made
no difference to the pc,licies the Government actually followed."
V. CONCLUSION
27.       In the area of macro-economic policy, measures usually take time to
produce the results sought, and in an assessment like the present audit, one
has to be content with examining progress towards implementing the measures
agreed upon, taking into consideration the broad objectives of the operation.
In this respect, the principal measures agreed upon were implemented, as well
as others which proved quite effective.



- 12 -
28.       The major objectives of this Program Loan appear to have been
achieved:   the loan provided a quick resource transfer to Turkey at a time of
dire need; capacity utilization in industry showed some improvement or other-
wise was prevented from deteriorating further; in agriculture (though the
connection between inputs of fertilizer and plant-protection chemicals on the
one hand and output, on the other, has not been demonstrated) 1969 produc-
tion of the major cereals (wheat and barley in particular) expanded, and no
serious reduction was experienced by other crops on account of reduced flow of
imports.   Though the amount of the loan was very small in relation to the
magnitudes of the financial requirements, it made an appreciable contribution
to the imports of the eligible items in general, and a substantial contribu-
tion in particular to the imports of fertilizers, plant protection chemicals,
copper and aluminum. Another objective achieved was to contribute to the flow
of funds from other sources, though again this only occurred after a lag.
29.       Turkey's principal commitment was to encourage exports and this was
done through a number of administrative measures and financial instruments,
most effectively via the drastic adjustment of the exchange rate.       Although
exports did not respond immediately, no fair observer could have expected them
to do so, and there were many factors outside Turkey's control affecting the
volume and terms of trade of exports. Maniy of the measures to be taken by the
Government and contained in the Finance Minister's letter of August 23, 1978,
were in the nature of future policies, intended to be implemented over the
medium term and were not time specific to the period of loan implementation.
Even such projections as were specified there for exports, related to growth
during 1979-83 when the base (1979) could not have been known (Letter, second
paragraph).   Some of the promised institutional and administrative reforms
were slow to occur or otherwise never materialized.      In the event, however,
the January 1980 stabilization program (which subsequently became the basis
for the Bank structural adjustment loans and further arrangements with the
Fund), and measures taken since, were to represent a major re-orientation of
policy, placing stress on exports, which the Program Loan had sought in the
first place. In a very real sense, therefore, the program loan may be said to
have been the precursor of such changes, and at least part of the credit
should go to the timing of this loan.      If it were possible to calculate an
ex post rate of return on this loan from the vantage point of the present, it
would prove to be much higher than was originally envisaged, especially now
when exports appear to be finally responding to the various incentives intro-
duced under this loan, and further developed on its basis.



- 13 -
Table 1
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TURKEY: FIRST PROGRAM LOAN
(LOAN 1627-TU)
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN SOME SELECTED VARIABLES
(Compared with Preceding Year)
1977     1978      1979     1980
At Constant Prices
GNP                                     4.0      2.9      -0.5     -0.7
Consumption                             5.3      2.3       0.1      0.3/a
Fixed Capital Investment                6.9    -10.9       -7.8      ./a
Stock-building                          0.9     -0.3       0.8      2.5/a
Value Added in Agriculture             -0.6      2.5       2.9      1.2
Value Added in Industry                 6.6      3.7      -5.6     -4.8
Value Added in Manufacturing            6.5      2.6      -5.3     -5.0
At Current Prices
Import Value                            13      -21        10       51
Import Prices                           10       14        18       35
(of which oil)                         (12)      (1)      (38)     (75)
Import Volume                            3      -30        -7       12
(of which oil)                         (16)     (-3)     (-11)     (21)
Export Value                           -11       31        -1       29
Export Prices                            9        6        18       18
Export volume                          -18       23       -16        9
/a   Provisional.
Source:  IMF:   Turkey - Recent Economic Developments, (SM/81/180) dated
August 27, 1981..



- 14 -
Table 2
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TURKEY: FIRST PROGRAM LOAN
(LOAN 1627-TU)
CURRENT ACCOUNT OF THE BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(millions US dollars)
1977     1978      1979     1980
Current Account                           -3,635   -1,780    -1,650   -3,419
Exports (f.o.b.)                           1,755    2,288     2,261    2,910
Imports (c.i.f.)                          -5,797   -4,599    -5,069   -7,667
Trade Balance                        -4,043   -2,311    -2, 808  -_4757
Workers' Remittances                         982       983    1,694    2,071
Interest Payments before
Debt Relief                               -570     -750    -1,010   -1,138
Other Services (net)                          -4       298      474      405
Services Balance                        480      531    1,158     1,338
Source: IMF: Turkey - Recent Economic Developments, (SM/81/180), dated
August 27, 1981, Table 35.



- 15 -
Table 3
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TURKEY: FIRST PROGRAM LOAN
(LOAN 1627-TU)
CAPITAL ACCOUNT OF THE BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(millions US dollars)
1977     1978      1979     1980
Project and Suppliers' Credits               499       450      356      347
Program Loans                                  3        80      230      352
Private Foreign Capital                      168       147      210      130
Petroleum Loans                              365       163       50      215
Loans from Banks                             710       450     -370      165
Special Assistance under OECD                 -        -        225      989
Debt Repayments before Relief               -214     -570      -945   -1,556
Debt Relief                                   -       295       924    1,450
Capital Account Net                        1,531    1,015       680    2,292
Source: Table 1, page 14 of IMF: Turkey - Staff Report for the 1981
Article IV Consultation, (SM/81/178) dated August 24, 1981.






-  17  -
TURKEY
PROGRAM LOAN - (1627-TU)
COMPLETION REPORT
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01     On November 8, 1978, the Bank signed a $150 million program loan
with the Republic of Turkey.   The loan was designed to help increase
capacity utilization in agriculture and industry in a situation of acute
scarcity of foreign exchange, and was predicated on the Government's
strategy to make exports the cornerstone of its development policy.
1.02     Disbursements were completed on March 24, 1980.   A mission in June
1980 gathered information and views on the implementation and impact of the
loan from the Government: and from beneficiaries in both the public and
private sectors. These are reflected in this completion report on the loan.
Economic Background
1.03     The President'" Report (No. P-2374a-TU, dated October 19, 1978)
analyzed the causes of the economic crisis which gripped Turkey from early
1977 and continues even today. These were partly external: price rises for
oil and other imports since 1973, and the simultaneous recession and high
unemployment in Western Europe in 1974 and 1975 which affected Turkey's
exports and worker remittances. However, poor domestic policies were
equally important: over-ambitious growth and investment targets given the
unfavorable external environment, insufficient incentives to export, and
lagging domestic savings especially savings by the public sector. As a
result, excess aggregate! demand led to strong domestic inflationary
pressures; the gap between exports and imports widened sharply; Turkey
borrowed heavily abroad to cover it, largely on short-term. By early 1977,
foreign confidence was affected and credits dried up, leading to the
emergence of shortages cf imported items, extensive underutilization of
capacity (especially in industry, and including industries serving
agriculture), and mounting payments arrears.
1.04     From early 1978, the Government began implementing the first of
several rounds of stabilization measures. These were supported by IMF
Standby Arrangements approved in April 1978 and July 1979. The main
measures were intended to restrain the growth of aggregate demand and
imports through restrictive monetary policy, reduce public investment and
direct it to priority areas, mobilize additional resources through large
increases in the prices charged by State Economic Enterprises (SEEs),



- 18 -
restore external competitiveness and promote exports through substantial
devaluations and other incentives, and convert outstanding short-term debt
into medium-term obligations while tapping new sources of medium and
longterm external capital. The Government also produced a realistic
strategy document for the Fourth Plan (1979-83) in August 1978, making a
vigorous export drive the cornerstone of a planning strategy designed to
restore viability gradually to the economy. Later in November 1978, after
the 1978 Program Loan was signed, the Government incorporated this policy
in the Plan document itself.
1.05     Despite these steps in 1978   implementation of the stabilization
program was partial during the year, and the results were therefore mixed.
The balance of payments did improve in 1978; the current account deficit
halved, but mainly because the volume of imports was cut by about 30
percent, which slowed real growth to 3 percent and increased the
underutilization of capacity. On the other hand, exports rose by 30
percent, and the debt position and capital inflows improved.
II. HISTORY AND FEATURES OF THE LOAN
Loan Justification
2.01     These economic circumstances provided a convincing justification
for a Category IV program loan. The most relevant of these circumstances
were the existence of a structural problem in the balance of payments due
to the inadequate development of exports, and widespread underutilization
of capacity especially in industry. IMF facilities were being used in
support of an agreed stabilization program, but were nowhere near
sufficient to fill any reasonably estimated balance of payments gap. In
any case, the adjustments required would take some years to carry out,
while the debt burden was already insupportable, suggesting the need for
longer-term financing. Neither project nor sector lending would be
sufficient, although complementary action was taken through FY79 DFC, ports
and grain storage loans in particular to allocate limited investment funds
to serve exports. Meanwhile, the Government's Fourth Plan strategy
document suggested that policies would be followed which would permit the
resumption of sound growth in the medium term.
2.02     Turkey's foreign exchange crisis was a severe one.   Reserves were
very low. There were limits to the speed with which export and workers'
remittances could be expanded. Further payments arrears would have
threatened debt rescheduling negotiations. Thus if supplementary foreign
exchange had not been made available, the import program - already limited
to essential items--would have had to be cut further. Since imported
stocks were largely exhausted, reductions in imports would have directly
affected capacity utilization, output, and hence even exports. Agriculture
and industry would both have been severely hit.



-  19   -
Loan History
2.03     Bank program assistance was first recommended in the Program
Division's desk analys,is of the economic situation in summer 1977.    The
case was elaborated progressively during early 1978, and after preliminary
discussions initiated by the Bank, the Government in March 1978 formally
requested a program loan to increase capacity utilization. During his
visit to Turkey in Apri.l 1978, the President approved the processing of a
loan subject to several conditions, including most notably a review of the
Fourth Plan, soon to be drafted for the years 1979-83, witli the Bank.
2.04     The Region had meanwhile mobilized staff on a contingency basis.
It was thus able to mount an appraisal mission the very next week after
this decision was taken. Given the timing of the production of the Fourth
Plan, the mission reached agreement with the Government to review the
strategy document for the Plan during loan processing, rather than the Plan
itself. The Loan Commi.ttee suggested that the review focus particularly on
exports, in view of their importance for economic recovery. The review
resulted in a letter from the Minister of Finance to the President dated
August 23, 1978 (attached as Annex 1) detailing export potential, targets
and policy measures and intentions. Formal negotiations were brief, and
Board presentation on rlovember 7, 1978 came six months after the return of
the appraisal mission. The Government moved with unprecedented speed after
loan signature and enabled the Bank to declare the loan effective within a
week.
Loan Objectives and Features
2.05     The broad objEctives of the loan can be summarized as follows:
(a)  provide a rapid resource transfer to Turkey, to help fill a large
foreign exchange gap projected for 1979, and hence permit Turkey to
maintain essential imports;
(b) help increase capacity utilization in agriculture and industry,
and hence sustain output and employment; this would also help permit the
Government to implement its stabilization program and medium-term policies;
(c) support policies and actions necessary to achieve the planned
major increase in exports, and meet part of the import needs of exporters;
and
(d) help Turkey to increase other inflows of medium- and long-term
external capital.
2.06     Allocations;   The $150 million loan was allocated among four
categories, as described below. Eligible commodities were spelled out in
some detail in Categories l(a) and 4, fertilizer raw materials and
industry. The Government and Bank further agreed that reallocations from
the Industry category to the others would be considered, but not those in



- 20 -
the reverse direction, thus emphasizing the priority within the loan of
agriculture, spare parts and imports for exports. To ensure adequate
balance between public and private sector uses, the Bank required and the
Government agreed that not less than $50 million of the loan would be used
to finance direct imports by private sector firms.
2.07     The loan was allocated as follows:
1.   Agriculture                                          $40 million
(a) Materials for production of fertilizers
(b) Plant protection chemicals and their
raw materials
2.   Spare parts for manufacturing industries and
for crop-spraying aircraft                          $20 million
3.   Raw materials and intermediate inputs to be
imported under the Import for Export Promotion
Scheme                                               $30 million
4.   Industr                                              $60 million
(a) Steel
(b) Copper
(c) Aluminum
(d) Petrochemicals and chemicals
2.08     There were two other noteworthy conditions of the loan, both
related to exports;
(a)  the Government undertook to allocate foreign exchange, earned
using the Import for Export Promotion Scheme, to replenish the
Scheme, in amounts equal to the actual financing of imports under
the program loan; and
(b)  disbursements after April 30, 1979 - almost six months from loan
signature and effectiveness - were made conditional on a mutually
satisfactory exchange of views on export policies and any
necessary changes in them to achieve the Government's export
targets.



-  21  -
III. IMPACT OF THE LOAN
Background - Economic Developments in 1979
3.01     Major indicators of economic developments in 1979 are compared
with those for 1978 in Table 1 below.
Table 1:   Selected Economic Indicators, 1978-79
1978             1979
(% p.a.)
GDP growth                                          2.9            -0.9
Agriculture                                  2.7              2.8
Industry                                     6.6             -5.6
Other                                        4.1              0.2
(US$m)
Current Account Deficit                           -1710           -1771
Merchandise Exports                         2288             2261
Merchandise Imports                         4599             5069
Interest (net)                              -680             --930
Workers' Remittances                         983             1694
In 1979 GDP stagnated, particularly in the industrial sector due to severe
shortages of imported raw materials and energy. In agriculture, further
growth was held back by a sizable decline in production of industrial
crops, mainly cotton, aind a bad olive crop; the area cultivated declined,
due to shortages of fuel and fertilizers which mostly have to be imported.
On the external account, there was a marginal decline in the value of
recorded exports of goods, although in volume terms, exports actually
declined by an estimated 16 percent. The value of merchandise imports was
about 10 percent higher than the previous year; but due to substantial
price increases, the volume is estimated to have declined by 7 percent.
Severe import rationing therefore continued. Turkey achieved some success
in diversifying the sources, and increasing the level, of M&LT
commitments. Perhaps the most important arrangement arrived at was the May
1979 OECD sponsored pledging of $1.45 billion in special assistance,
including about $900 miLlion in M&LT bilateral credits and export credits,
besides $407 million of medium-term credits from commercial banks
(finalized in September 1979). However, actual capital inflows were about
the same as the previou; year, and despite the largest debt rescheduling
operation anywhere, net arrears of about $500 million emerged.
3.02     The balance of payments outcome in 1979 was somewhat different
from expectations at appraisal, especially on capital account. Exports
fell $250 million short, while imports exceeded expected levels by $250
million. Since workers' remittances quite unexpectedly were $600 million
above projected levels, the current account deficit turned out to be very
close to the projected 'l.85 billion. On capital account, public M&LT



-  22  -
gross disbursements were $400 million above expectations, thanks to OECD
special aid and debt relief. However, there was a major shortfall in
coummercial inflows, and as mentioned above the Government was forced to
accumulate further arrears.
3.03     In January 1980, when all but a few million dollars of the Bank's
Program Loan had been disbursed, a new government launched a more radical
program, going beyond stabilization and including measures which initiated
far-reaching institutional changes needed to bring about changes in the
structure of the economy over the medium term.
Balance of Payments
3.04     Relation to Total Imports;   Although disbursements of the program
loan were completed only in March 1980, $143.7 million (or 96 percent) of
the $150 million loan was disbursed during calendar 1979. Given the data
available, and for convenience of analysis with the risk of only minor
error, the use made of the whole $150 million loan is here compared with
figures for calendar 1979.
3.05      The program loan financed about 3 percent of total imports in
1979. This was a slightly higher share than the original expectation of
1.6 percent of total imports in 1978 and 1979 together mentioned in the
President's Report (the import level of 1979 was 10 percent higher than
1978).
3.06     In the absence of the loan, it is likely that total imports would
have been reduced to some extent; there might also have been a larger
buildup of arrears.
3.07     Imports of Eligible Items; The Bank made a considerable effort to
identify high-priority commodities for financing even within Turkey's
already stripped-down import program. Imports for 1978 and 1979 together
were projected at appraisal at $9.3 billion. Petroleum products and
finished fertilizers were excluded on policy grounds. Thereafter
high-priority items were selected for which about $1.2 billion in imports
were foreseen and actually made in 1979. The loan thus financed about 12
percent of these imports.
3.08     The President's Report noted that commodities were selected, and
allocations proposed, on the basis of the following criteria; high direct
and indirect multiplier effects on utilization of installed capacity in the
user sectors; direct or indirect export impact; a balance between public
and private sector beneficiaries; acceptable methods of procurement; and
rapid loan disbursements. The method used was to apply these criteria to
lists of high-priority commodities suggested by the Government from within
the already-restricted total import program for 1979. The Bank reviewed
available input-output and other statistical data as well as the direct
import requirements for exported goods. Specific information from a sample
of significant suppliers of important materials for further agricultural/
industrial processing and from potential exporters was also evaluated. In



-  23   -
the absence of sufficieintly detailed data, the selection was necessarily
based in good part on information regarding recent performance and
short-term prospects for capacity utilization and exports. The allocations
took account of production projections, the current stock situation and
import pipeline, and tbE piss'ble availabili'v of external financing to
cover part of the deman'
3.09     The reasons for all this effort were basically two.     The first was
to maximize the impact of the loan, particularly its impact on capacity
utilization and exports. The second was the desire to ensure that these
high-priority needs would definitely be met, if eventually not enough
foreign exchange became available to finance the entire import program. It
could perhaps also be argued that the Bank was not in a position to
pronounce on the merits of the whole import program, and therefore needed
to protect itself by selecting specific items. However, there are several
arguments on the other side of the question. Firstly, the Bank was
convinced of and endorsed the appropriateness of the criteria by which the
Government was compressing the high import programs of previous years
(particularly 1977) to match foreign exchange availability. Secondly, to
the extent these items were really high-priority ones, the Government would
have attempted to provide for their import even if there had been an
overall shortage of foreign exchange for the program. Thirdly, even though
Turkey's room to manoeuvre was quite limited, and its free foreign exchange
receipts from exports and workers' remittances were almost fully committed
to debt service and petroleum and military imports on cash terms, the
fungibility of money cculd mean that the Bank was ultimately financing the
marginal imports which the existence of the program loan made possible. In
that case, the contribution of the loan should be measured by the other
activities made possible by the foreign exchange it released. These
arguments are impossible to resolve fully. However, what is clear is that
the loan actually financed the import of high priority items, including
some like fertilizer raw materials where the timing of imports is crucial.
Also, there is no reason why the program loan should be singled out as the
marginal source of funds from the viewpoint of Turkey's whole balance of
payments. Nevertheless, it seems reasonable to conclude that the effort at
commodity selection was greater than really necessary.
3.10     In the event, actual imports financed did not precisely match the
original expectations. The original and final allocations of the proceeds
are compared in Table 2.
Table 2: Loan Allocations
Original           Final
------($ million)------
1.   Agriculture                            40.0              57.2
2.   Spare Parts                            20.0              13.2
3.   Imports for Exports                    30.0              36.6
4.   Industry                               60.0              43.0
150.0             150.0



-  24  -
3.11     There was a formal reallocation of loan proceeds towards the end
of the disbursement period, when it proved difficult to assemble the needed
documentation on the many small private sector purchases of spare parts.
Financing of fertilizer raw materials was unexpectedly large at S46
million. Industry served as the residual category as anticipated.
3.12     The share of imports in 1979 of major eligible items for
agriculture and industry financed by the program loan ranged from 3 percent
for chemicals and 5 percent for (iron and) steel to as much as 38 percent
in the case of fertilizer raw materials and higher shares for blister
copper and aluminum (Table 3). Figures for total imports of spare parts
and total imports for exports were impossible to obtain. The figures may
be compared to the original expectation of an average of 8 percent of
imports of eligible items over 1978 and 1979. No average can be
constructed from the actual numbers, as complete information could not be
obtained. However, the unforeseen rise in oil prices in 1979 led to a
considerable squeezing of non-oil imports. As a result, the program loan
assumed greater importance than originally expected in the financing of
imports of the eligible items, especially the important inputs to
agriculture.
Table 3: 1979 IMPORTS AND THE PROGRAM LOAN
Imports under    Total      Financed by
Program Loan    Imports /1  Program Loan
------($ million)-----      --(percent)-
1.  Agriculture                                 57.2       184.3         31.0
(a)  Fertilizer raw materials              (45.6)     (118.6)       (38.4)
(b)  Plant protection materials            (11.6)      (65.7)       (17.7)
2.  Spare Parts                                 13.2         n.a.         n.a.
3.  Imports for Exports                         36.6         n.a.         n.a.
4.  Industry                                    43.0       895.7.          4.8
(a)  Steel                                 (17.7)     (347.3) /2     (5.1)
(b)  Copper /3                              (3.0)       (3.6)       (83.3)
(c)  Aluminum                               (8.2)      (19.8)       (41.4)
(d)  Petrochemicals and chemicals          (14.1)     (525.0)        (2.7)
Memo Item;
Total                                      150.0     5,069.0          3.0
/1 Of eligible items.
/2  Iron and steel.
73 Only blister copper.
3.13     Without the loan, however, it is likely that Turkey would have
attempted to maintain the level of its imports of the eligible items, since
they were of high priority and also since other sources of financing were
available for some of them. It is clear that this could only have been done
at the expense of other imports of lower priority and for which finance was
harder to come by.



-  25   -
Exports
3.14     In his letter to the President of August 23, 1978 (attached as
Annex I) the Minister of Finance emphasized the importance the Government
placed on export growth. Its objective was for the volume of merchandise
exports to grow by more than 15 percent per annum during 1979-83, with
agri-1 7ttral -xn\rts growing 1y c percent and man',factuled exports by over
30 peicent j)et ainum in volume.   The lKiaister desc-ibed the financial,
administrative and institutional measures to be gradually introduced whereby
the Government intended to promote exports.    Of these measures, the
following were implemented in 1979;
(a)  Simplification   of the Temporary Import Regime, which governs
imports for re-export, and other administrative procedures
affecting exporters;
(b)  Revision of the rules governing direct foreign investment, to
permit foreign participation of up to 100 percent in projects which
are primarily export-oriented;
(c)  Modification of the agricultural price support policy, to give less
emphasis to income support, and more to encouraging the production
of exportable (or import-substituting) commodities. To this end,
support prices began to be announced earlier than previously.
3.15     Some of the measures mentioned in the Minister's letter were not
implemented during the loan disbursement period. These were:
(a)  The proposed export risk insurance scheme;
(b)  The proposed national export promotion center;
(c)  Special incentives for large-scale export projects were not
introduced, although all export-oriented projects were accorded
various special investment incentives (see also para. 3.9, 2(c));
and
(d)  Export targets were specified for SEEs and Agricultural Sales
Cooperatives in the 1979 Annual Program, but there was no
monitoring of performance.
3.16     On the other hand, a number of export promotion measures not
explicitly mentioned in the Minister's letter were implemented in 1979. The
most important of these were:
1.   Financial Measures:
(a)    The lira was devalued in April and again in June 1979,
adjusting the exchange rate from 25 per US dollar to 47 per
US dollar;



-  26  -
(b)    A foreign exchange retention scheme was introduced.
Exporters of minerals and manufactures were allowed to
retain first 25 and then 50 percent of their foreign
exchange earnings, to finance either their own or their
subcontractors' import requirements. This replaced the
Export Promotion Foreign Exchange Fund, which the Government
was unable to replenish satisfactorily under conditions of
extreme foreign exchange scarcity. This measure has had a
substantial favorable impact on industrial exports;
(c)    In order to increase Turkish foreign exchange earnings in
the overseas contracting market, the Government, in
conjunction with the leading commercial banks, established a
risk fund to overcome the difficulties which Turkish firms
experienced in posting performance bonds of the size
required in bidding for large contracts;
(d)    Priority was given to exporters in the allocation of foreign
exchange for the purchase of imported inputs both for export
production and, up to a prescribed limit, for the production
of essential goods for domestic sales;
(e)    Special permission was given to exporters to finance their
import requirements through acceptance credits and the
Central Bank was authorized to discount such bills;
(f)    Higher priority was given to exporters than before in the
allocation of commercial bank credit, and the commercial
banks are required to allocate at least 5 percent of loan
portfolio to export credit;
(g)    Interest rate rebates on domestic borrowing by exporters
were increased in May 1979;
(h)    Tax rebates on exports were restructured in June 1979 to
give more emphasis on value added in production; the revised
rebates ranged from 5 to 35 percent depending on commodity.
2.   Administrative Measures:
(a)    An inter-ministerial Export Coordination Committee was set
up to resolve some of the administrative problems of
exporters;
(b)    Exporters were provided certain locally produced inputs (so
far only cotton yarn) at world prices;
(c)    Investment incentives were changed in 1979 so that projects
in certain fields only received incentives if exportoriented.



-  27  -
The emphasis given to export growth in the Plan document was, therefore,
generally followed through in terms of policy changes. It should be noted
that the consensus of Government officials interviewed was that the
existence of the program loan and of the policy dialogue on exports made no
diffference to the policies the Government actually followed.
3.17     The prescribed review of export policies was conducted in April
1979 in conjunction with the Special Economic Mission. The review report
(attached as Annex II) discussed the measures implemented to promote
exports, as well as important policy actions undertaken to improve the
current economic situation. The review concluded that in the mission's
opinion, "the Government has been successful in arousing, for the first time
ever, widespread awareness of the need to export," and that the mission was
"encouraged with the initiatives of the Government regarding export
promotion". The continuation of disbursements was therefore approved.
3.18     Export performance in 1979 was disappointing, despite the measures
outlined above. In volume terms, exports declined by 17 percent from the
1978 level, and in value by 1 percent from $2288 million to $2261 million.
They were adversely affected by unfavorable relationships between export
prices and domestic prices, and in particular by uncertainty regarding the
exchange rate and its belated adjustment. While the Turkish lira was
devalued from TL 25 = US$1.00 to TL 47 = US$1.00 between April and June, the
competitive advantage offered was quickly offset by continuing sharp
increases in domestic prices, which rose by 65 percent in 1979 and even
faster towards the end of the year. Shortages of material inputs and rising
costs of domestic materials also adversely affected exports and export
profitability. Agricultural exports, which comprise about 60 percent of the
total, declined particularly sharply (about 13 percent in value) despite a
1.8 percent increase in agricultural value added. They were adversely
affected by a weakness in external demand, particularly for cotton and
tobacco, EEC restrictions and a general lack of incentive for producers to
seek markets abroad because internal prices of many agricultural products
increased much faster tnan export prices. Inappropriate pricing policy also
contributed to the sharp decline in cereal exports. An additional factor
contributing to the decline in agricultural exports was the shortage of fuel
and fertilizers, which resulted in a sizeable decline in the output of
certain crops, particularly tobacco. Manufactured exports, on the other
hand, grew by 24 percent in value in 1979, compared to only 6 percent in
1978. This was achieved despite a decline of 5.9 percent in manufacturing
value added in 1979, which was caused by shortages of imported raw materials
and energy which severely disrupted production. This performance of
manufactured exports can be attributed in part to exporters' response to
incentive measures, and in part to industrialists' increasing realization
that, in present conditions, they must earn their imported requirements
through exports.
3.19     Assessing the impact of the $36.6 million of the loan used for
imports for exporters is difficult, especially since the import content of
exports is not known with any precision, and the Government was unable to
provide detailed information relevant to this assessment. However, a rough



- 28 -
calculation can be made. It may be assumed that the loan financed inputs
only for industrial exports. These totaled $785 million in 1979, but $378
million were textiles with very low import content, and another $151 million
were processed agricultural products presumably of domestic origin. Thus
the loan contributed essentially to some proportion of the remaining $256
million worth of industrial exports. If it is assumed, as is reasonable,
that the average import content of those exports was between 25 and 50
percent, the loan may have helped finance between 28 and 56 percent of
relevant industrial exports in 1979. This conclusion must be qualified,
however: during the life of the loan, the Import for Export Promotion
Scheme under which imports were financed was superseded by the foreign
exchange retention scheme (para. 3.16, l(b)). Before this happened, the
contribution of the loan may have been even larger than suggested by the
above figures. Afterwards, the loan would still have been important for
meeting the needs of existing exporters above the retention quotas (first 25
and later 50 percent). In addition, it may well have been crucial in
meeting the import needs of first-time exporters.
Output and Capacity Utilization
3.20     Since the program loan financed such a small proportion (only 3
percent) of total imports in 1979, its impact on total output while surely
positive is practically impossible to estimate, requiring detailed
assumptions about the level and composition of imports in its absence and a
reasonably up to date input-output table, neither of which is available.
The period of disbursement of the loan happened to be one in which the
economic situation was deteriorating: real GDP growth in 1979 declined by
0.3 percent; and capacity utilization in industry as a whole could not be
prevented from falling from 56 percent in 1978 to 45 percent in 1979,
according to the best estimates available. The volume of imports fell by 19
percent in 1979 despite the disbursements from the program loan, and
imported stocks were already very low. Therefore only a rather negative
assessment can be made, namely that without the program loan, the outcome
for 1979 would clearly have been somewhat worse.
3.21     The experience of industries using items imported under the loan is
set out in Table 4 below;
Table 4: OUTPUT AND CAPACITY UTILIZATION
Capacity
Production ('000 Tons) Utilization (x)
1978          1979    1978       1979
Fertilizers                                486           635    32.4       42.4
(a)  Nitrogenous                          271          356     31.7       42.4
(b)  Phosphatic                           213          273     33.1       42.1
Plant protection chemicals                  28            26    38.4       34.8
Steel                                    3,138        3,252     50.0       57.0
Copper                                      26            23    38.1        33.4
Aluminum                                    32            32    53.8        53.6
Petrochemicals & other chemicals            94            97    50.0       41.0



-  29  -
3.22     From this Table, it is clear that the performance of the fertilizer
industry was exceptional in 1979, in that not only did its production
increase, but also its capacity utilization improved from 32 percent in 1978
to 42 percent in 1979 as the Government accorded it high priority. This
improvement was common to the production of nitrogenous and phosphatic
fertilizers. The program loan contributed significantly to this
development, financing some 38 percent of total imports of fertilizer raw
materials. Production of plant protection chemicals declined somewhat in
1979, with capacity utilization falling from 38 to 35 percent. It is likely
that without the program loan financing of 18 percent of total imports of
plant protection chemicals and their inputs, this performance would have
been worse. The same is true for metal industries; production of copper
declined, and the rate of capacity utilization deteriorated from 38 to 33
percent. The aluminum industry repeated its 1978 performance. Steel output
was somewhat better and capacity utilization also increased, this being
another industry accorded high priority by the Government. The
petrochemical and chemical industries increased their output, but their rate
of capacity utilization declined sharply as new units came on stream. At
first sight, it may seem as if without the program loan, the 1979
performance of these industries would have been worse, in strict relation to
the shares of their imports financed by the loan. However, this analysis is
vitiated by the likelihood, mentioned above, that in the absence of the
program loan, the Government is most likely to have attempted to maintain
imports for these high priority subsectors at the expense of others. Thus
no definite conclusion can be reached at broad industry levels, other than
the one provided above.
3.23     It may be more feasible to assess the impact of the loan at the
firm level. The experience of the 3 public--and quasi-public (Erdemir)--and
4 private sector firms interviewed, which together handled the procurement
of $81 million or 54 percent, and actually used $51 million or 34 percent of
the loan, is summarized in Table 5 below;
Table 5: BENEFICIARIES' PRODUCTION AND CAPACITY UTILIZATION
Capacity
Volume of Output    Utilization    % of Imports
1978         1979   1978   1979    Financed by
-----(tons)-----    -----%-----    Program Loan
Public Sector and Quasi-Public
Azot Sanayii (N fertilizer)   498,000      565,000      53     52          43
Petkim (petrochemicals)          n.a.       85,256     n.a.    63          21
Erdemir (steel)                706,702     718,062     n.a.    62         n.a. /1
Private Sector
Trafosan (transformers) (MVA)      193         208      32     35          18
Koruma Tarim (plant
protection)                   7,506       11,532      22     24         23
Nasas (aluminium products)      14,534      11,444      76     60          58
Kordsa (nylon tire cord)         6,913       6,511      49     47          12
/1  The loan financed close to 100 percent of Erdemir's imports other than
iron ore and coal.



- 30 -
3.24     For individual firms, the program loan often made a significant
difference. One private sector firm felt its imports would have declined by
an equivalent amount in the absence of the loan, as suppliers had strictly
limited their acceptance credits which finance the balance of its imports.
On the other hand, another noted it would have relied on a combination of
methods to largely substitute for the loan. In any case, individual firms
(perhaps particularly exporters) could perhaps have received other foreign
exchange in lieu of the loan, and their high-priority industry would
probably have received some even if the individual firm had not.
Public and Private Sector Balance
3.25     Private sector firms finally received a total of $89 million, in
part through direct purchases and in part via public sector companies which,
until near the end of 1979, were given a monopoly of imports of steel
products and certain petrochemicals. Fertilizer raw materials were also
bought by the public sector fertilizer company, but as a matter of
convenience requested by the Ministry of Finance, not by statutory
authority. Periodic representations by large private firms in Turkey, to
the effect that the private sector was being kept from benefiting from the
loan, appear to have been unjustified, although it is true that domestic
market- and non-agriculture-oriented industries received little from the
loan.
Use of Counterpart Funds
3.26     The loan agreement provided for the Government to use the
counterpart funds to help finance the local currency portion of capital
expenditures on development projects included in its investment budget.
During the loan disbursement period, the Government informed the Bank that
it would allocate the entire counterpart to local currency expenditures on
the Elbistan lignite mine and power station project, the highest-priority
project in Turkey and partly financed by the Bank (Loan 1023-1 TU and 1023-2
TU, dated June 28, 1976, for $123 million and $25 million, respectively).
This project was advancing very slowly despite its overwhelming priority,
largely because the Government simply could not find sufficient local
currency to keep up the pace of construction.
3.27     In practice, the arrangements made were more complicated.    The
total of TL 3,990 million in counterpart funds was allocated to the
electricity authority (TEK) building the power station. TL 1,490 million
was a straightforward budget allocation. The remaining TL 2,500 million was
a part payment to TEK of large overdue payments from municipalities, for
which the Treasury had agreed to assume responsibility.
3.28     TEK then used the funds, under an informal agreement with the
Treasury, to increase its local currency expenditures on Elbistan and on two
other high-priority power projects, Soma and Yatagan. The TL 4.0 billion in
counterpart funds financed 26 percent of TEK's 1979 local currency
investment program of TL 15.7 billion, of which TL 2.5 billion for Elbistan,
TL 4.1 billion for Soma and TL 1.2 billion for Yatagan. For these three



-  31  -
projects, the contribution of the loan was 51 percent. Bank supervision
missions have reported that these infusions led to a considerable
improvement in the pace of implementation of Elbistan, and the other two
projects were also among the few large projects in Turkey which moved ahead
during this period. Although local currency resources may be more fungible
than foreign exchange, the absolute resource scarcity was such that it is
reasonable to conclude that the objective of the counterpart funds provision
was attained.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Reporting on Export Performance and Policies
4.01     While the technical targets of the loan were achieved, and in some
respects exceeded, SPO's quarterly reports to Turkey's Higher Planning
Council to enable it to make policy decisions on improved export
performance, and which were to be submitted regularly to the Bank, were not
received. To that extent, this covenant was not observed. On the other
hand, it appears that the main reason was that the Council did not meet
regularly. Instead it responded to developments as they occurred, and the
concerned Ministries then took actions. Therefore, the Government instead
communicated information on relevant matters to Bank staff from time to
time, and in particular to the Special Economic Mission in April 1979.
Procurement
4.02      Imports were to be made directly by actual users, except for steel
products and certain petrochemicals where import by SEEs for domestic resale
was prescribed by law zit the time. Bulk imports by public sector
enterprises costing $1 million equivalent or more were to be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures consistent with
Bank Guidelines. Imports contracted by public sector enterprises for
industry and agriculture and costing between $250,000 and $1 million
equivalent, and other import contracts costing $250,000 or more were to be
procured on the basis cf competitive evaluation of at least three offers
from major suppliers in. Bank member countries and Switzerland. Contracts
for $250,000 or less were to be awarded under normal procurement procedures
of the public and private sectors.    Spare parts were to be procured on the
basis of either competing offers, or negotiation, depending on the number of
potential suppliers and the need for compatibility with existing equipment.
These sets of procurement procedures were intended to permit rapid
disbursement in support of the loan's objectives, and still help somewhat
widen the procurement sources of some Turkish firms that are closely tied to
traditional suppliers, and therefore give Turkey the benefit of the access
to suppliers who might be able to supply the inputs more competitively.
Further, to speed loan withdrawals, the Bank in the case of contracts of $1
million equivalent or more, was to receive a description of the advertising



-  32  -
and tendering procedures as 4ell as of the contracts only after they were
awarded, and in other cases only copies of the contracts after their award,
i.e. prior Bank review of contract award was waived.
4.03     With hindsight, simpler procurement provisions--especially
regarding large import contracts placed by public enterprises--would have
had no adverse impact, as Turkish public sector procurement practice is
reasonably efficient and economic. In the event, the loan provisions caused
a large proportion of the supervision problems experienced and involved
considerable Bank manpower input. Firstly, the loan brought a wide range of
public enterprises into contact with Bank procurement requirements for the
first time, involving both the Treasury and the Bank in efforts at
education, including a procurement seminar held in Turkey and covering also
Bankfinanced projects. Secondly, the search for rapid disbursements led to
the Goverment submitting many contracts, some based on bidding held prior to
the loan, which required much flexibility of interpretation by the Bank and
on occasion the granting of exceptions. Some of these cases involved
eligible commodities with standard specifications for which international
market practice is to request quotations by telex from the relatively small
number of potential suppliers' firms; the replies are almost immediate and
the price options expire within a few days. The Turkish experience suggests
that formal ICB is unsuitable for procuring such commodities.
4.04     The existence of the loan was advertised in newspaper reports and
by the normal publication of the loan agreement in the Official Gazette.
However, many private firms remained unaware of it for a long time, and
finally the Treasury had to contact firms both directly and through two
development banks to encourage applications.
Disbursements
4.05     When the loan was made, disbursements were expected to begin almost
immediately and be completed within one year of loan effectiveness. They
were to involve reimbursement by the Bank (disbursement procedure 1) of
amounts already paid by Turkey from its own resources. Previous Bank
program loans had worked this way, and Controller's Department stressed its
convenience for the Bank in terms of both rapid disbursements and minimum
paperwork. No special problems were anticipated, and the Bank rejected the
Government's unusual request for an advance payment of part of the loan to
facilitate the start of disbursements.
4.06     However, actual disbursements did not begin for three months.
Thereafter over 90 percent of the loan was disbursed in nine months, and
disbursements were completed sixteen months after loan signature. The
Government faced major problems throughout the disbursement period. In the
first place, it had not made clear to the Bank the extreme tightness of its
day-to-day cash position in foreign exchange. As a result of the collapse
of its creditworthiness vis-a-vis foreign banks, the latter would only
confirm Turkish letters of credit if backed 100 percent by cash, a condition



-  33  -
which soon tied up all Turkey's foreign exchange reserves. The Government
could not afford the wait between its own payment and even rapid
reimbursement by the Bank under the program loan.
4.07     After a delay and with some difficulty, the Government was able to
arrange 40 day bridge financing with the Banca Commerciale Italiana (BCI) in
New York and the Deutsche Bank (Germany), with limits of $20 million (later
raised to $30 million) and $10 million equivalent respectively. These
arrangements provided the initial financing for some $100 million out of the
$150 million worth of imports under the loan. Without them, disbursements
would hardly have been possible given Turkey's circumstances. Even so, the
relatively low limits several times forced a halt to commitments and limited
the possible pace of disbursements.
4.08     Another $30 million in purchases under the loan were financed
either by direct Bank payments to suppliers or via Bank qualified agreements
to reimburse. Only some $30 million was initially financed from Turkey's
own resources, mainly miscellaneous small orders for spare parts and imports
for exporters.
4.09     The Bank and BCI, the main bridge financing bank, had to provide
weekly statements to enable the Treasury to monitor its commitments.
Furthermore, the low bridge financing limits led the Government to request
the Bank's informal approval of every sizeable contract prior to either
signature or its formal submission under the loan.
4.10     Apart from these difficulties, it took some time for Turkey to
establish adequate internal procedures. The loan was handled by the Central
Bank's Consortium Section, since it already had experience with earlier
program loans extended by members of the OECD Consortium for Turkey.    Within
the section, two people worked on the loan, although as other program (and
project) loans were made during the period, one was sometimes detached. The
Central Bank and Treasury staff had to be educated in Bank procedures, and
Controller's Department provided considerable technical assistance.
Obtaining the documents required by the Bank proved most difficult in the
case of private firms. The Central Bank was somewhat passive, waiting for
commercial banks to respond to two circulars; the Treasury stepped in to
provide active follow-up, and every Bank mission returning to Washington
brought more documents.
4.11     Turkey's foreign exchange scarcity was clearly of exceptional
severity, leading to great difficulties in applying procedures used
successfully in nearly all previous Bank program loans. Had the Bank been
made better aware of the day-to-day situation, it might reasonably have
decided to advance a portion of the loan to facilitate start-up, as done on
occasion by Germany in its earlier program lending to Turkey.



-  34  -
V. CONCLUSIONS
5.01     The program loan achieved three of its four objectives (paragraph
2.5), namely to provide a rapid resource transfer to Turkey, to help
increase capacity utilization in agriculture and industry, and to support
export policy changes and finance exports directly. There is no direct
evidence that the existence of the loan helped Turkey to attract other
inflows of medium- and long-term external capital, but it may have
contributed to the willingness of other donors to assist Turkey during these
periods.
5.02     The loan made a modest but useful contribution to alleviating
Turkey's balance of payments difficulties in 1979, financing 3 percent of
total imports and about 12 percent of imports of eligible items. It
financed a considerable proportion of total imports of fertilizer raw
materials, where the timing of imports was also an important factor, and was
a major source of financing also for plant protection chemicals, copper and
aluminum. It was also important for some of the firms assisted, although
others could have obtained financing from other sources for their needs.
5.03     The time spent on determining commodity allocations was natural and
a learning experience for both the Government and the Bank in their first
program loan. However, it was probably excessive given that the Bank had
confidence in the import program as a whole, and given that money was
fungible to some extent even in a situation as difficult as Turkey's.
5.04     The loan was made in support of Government policies to promote
exports. A large number of financial, administrative and institutional
measures was taken during the disbursement period, only some of which were
anticipated in the letter from the Minister of Finance. However, exports
could not be expected to respond immediately. In fact export performance in
1979 was disappointing, with the volume of agricultural exports and of total
exports declining substantially and export value barely maintained. This
occurred partly for reasons outside Turkey's control. Where performance was
amenable to policy, it was not always export policy--on which the policy
discussions focused--which was relevant; for example, agricultural pricing
policies may have been responsible for a significant part of the poor
performance of agricultural exports. As for export policy, the consensus of
Government officials interviewed was that the existence of the program loan
and of the policy dialogue on exports made no difference to the policies the
Government actually followed. It may be, however, that the Bank's
concentration on this topic made the Government think somewhat more about
it, and that the dialogue provided an agenda and put matters in focus.
5.05     The procurement and disbursement problems described in paras.
4.02-4.04 and 4.05-4.11 respectively made this first program loan to Turkey



- 35 -
a source of considerable! supervision effort for the Bank departments
involved. The amount of consultation required on exceptional or unusual
procurement cases, and the extra correspondence required to ensure
fulfillment of routine clisbursement requirements, were the price the Bank
paid for a learning process on the part of the Government and Central Bank.
However, part of the problem was self-inflicted, in that the procurement
stipulations appear to have been too restrictive, even for a first program
loan, because of Turkey's circumstances and its own procedures. On
disbursements, the Government was reluctant to reveal to the Bank the dire
nature of its day-to-day foreign exchange problem. On the other hand, the
Bank was insufficiently sensitive to the problem. Instead, it repeatedly
criticized Turkey for failing to disburse the loan sufficiently rapidly,
when in fact the situation was so difficult that foreign banks were refusing
to accept Turkish letters of credit backed by the Central Bank. Agreeing to
the advance of funds initially requested by the Government might have made
all the difference.
VI. LESSONS LEARNED AND APPLIED IN SUBSEQUENT LOANS
6.01     Loan Allocations:   Since circumstances and priorities did not
change significantly in 1979, and the basic work of identifying
high-priority imports had been done under the program loan, commodity
allocation under the subsequent Structural Adjustment Loan (1818-TU, dated
March 26, 1980) was much simpler. Besides a confirmation that priorities
had not changed, the financing of spares and of imports for exporters was
discontinued in view of other arrangements proposed by the Government for
these items. In the Structural Adjustment Loan (Supplement), commodity
allocation again reflected a continuation of the same priorities, while some
additional flexibility was given to the Government by specifying only broad
groups of commodities.
6.02     Procurement;   Procurement procedures for the Structural Adjustment
Loan were modified to take into account the problems encountered in the
first operation, namely the excessive level of manpower expended in
supervision of procurement actions, the nature of procurement problems
encountered and the types of commodities procured, for which international
market practice differs substantially from the Bank's conventional ICB
procurement procedures. Reflecting the Bank's increasing insight into
Turkish public sector procurement practice, which proved to be reasonably
efficient and economic, the minimum size of contracts for which Bank ICB
guidelines are applicable was raised to $5 million. For contracts below $5
million, procedures were simplified and required that awards should be made
on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser. For
widely traded commodities, contracts could be awarded on the basis of price
quotations available from organized international commodity markets.
6.03     Disbursements:   Despite the experience under the program loan, the
Bank did not provide an advance to the Government under the Structural
Adjustment Loan. This was partly because the Government made no such
request, partly because the Bank staff believed that bridge financing



-  36  -
arrangements were now adequate. In the event, there were again disbursement
delays, although less serious than under the program loan, because of the
extremely tight foreign exchange position of the Central Bank, continued
restrictive limits on bridge financing available from commercial banks and
the 100 percent cash coverage of letters of credit required by foreign
banks. By the time of the Structural Adjustment (Supplement) Loan, the need
for the Bank to provide an advance appeared to have been obviated due to an
enlargement of the bridge financing limits.



- 37 -
T. C.
MALIYE BAKANLI(I               ANNEX I
ANKARA                     Page 1
HAZMiIT   DUnya Bankasi Pr. D.
Soyg      56908        4 7 49 
Konu    :                                       August 23rd, 1978
Dear Mr. McNamara,
The Governoment of Turkey, in order to maintain a rapid
pace of economic development, while avoiding the type of balance
of payments problems encountered recently, has decided to place a
much greater emphasis on export promotion in the Fourth Five Year
Plan (FFYP) than in earlier plans. The implications of this change
of emphasis are discussed at length in the Fourth Plan Outline
Strategy, a copy of wbich has been provided to the bank, and will
be spelt out even more fully in the Plan itself, which is expected
to be submitted to Parliament in October. In this letter I hope to
provide a concise statement of the Government's main targets and
policy intentions.
Specifically, the target for 1983, the last year of the
YFYP, is that merchandise exports will attain a level of more than
i 5-billion in 1978 prices,representing an averame annual growth over
the Plan period of more than 15 Dercent in real terms. This should be
compared with the real annual export growth of around 6 percent during
1970-1977. The principal feature of the export drive is expected to be
Jn average real increase of over 30 percent per annum in exports of
manufactured goocs, whose share in total exports is expected to rise
from 32 percent to 62 percent over the Plan period. AGricultural
exports are expected to increase in real terms at about 5 percent annually.
In the first two or three years of the Plan period, the planned
increase in manufactured exports will be brought about mainly.through
fuller use of existing capacity in the food, textiles, leather products.
wood products, and road vehicles industriec: and through diversion
from domestic unc of the products of the ccment, ccramics and rlans
industries as a rcsult of slack demand in thc construction soctor. In
addition, during 1978 and 1979 new factories presently under construction
will go into production in the food and bevcrage, wood products, .and



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
leather products industries. In the latter part of the Plan period,
manufactured exports, particularly in the machinery, electrical
equipment and transportation equipment sectors, will further increase
as a result of the completion of new export-oriented investmcnt
projects.
The Government believes that this high export growth rate is
feasible given the initially low level of Turkish exports but it
recognises that achievement of this target will require vigorous
implementation of appropriate policy measures and careful monitoring
of performance throughout the Plan period.
To achieve the planned export targets, the Government intends
to make exporting more profitable than selling in the domestic mark.et.
This will require measures to ensure that 'Turkish exports are cost ana
price-competitive in world markets, and an appropriate response to
divergencies between the rates of inflation in Turkey and in her
trading partners. It will also require that protection of the domestic
market through duties and quantitative restrictions on imports be
maintained at a level such that domestic sales are not made unduly
profitable relative to exports. In addition, the Government intends to
maintain and develop the various financial incentives it presently provides
to exporters to the extent consistent with prudent management of the
public finances and with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
In addition to the export encouragement measures contained
in the stabilisation program introduced earlier this year, the Government
has recently implemented a number of measures to promote exsorts. Export
rebates have been increased. A scheme has been implemented whereby
exporters and their domestic suppliers are to be given priority access
to scarce foreign exchange for the purchase of imported inputs both for
export production and to a limited extent for production for the domestic
market. An Export Coordination Council, composed of representatives of
several ministries, has been established to speed up necessary administrative
decisions, to exarine the problems of exporting sectors, and to recommend
appropriate measures. As a result of this Council's work, there has
already been a simplification of export licencing and regintration
procedures, and a decision has been taken to provide exporters with
locally produced inputs such as cotton, leather, and grain at world
prices. Exporters have been granted cpecial permission to finance their
purchases of imported inputs through acceptance credits. Intorest rate
rebates on various types of domestic borrowing by exporters have been
increased, as has the degree of priority accorded to exporters in the



- 39 -                     ANNEX I
EAB.e~ 3
allocation, of domestic: credit. The exDort targets of State Economic
Enterpriscs and Agricultural Sales Cooperatives are now set in advance,
and a cuccoCsful effort is being madc to cxport the existing large
stocks of certain agrLcultural commoditiec, particularly whoat.
The Goveniment intends to introduce additional mcasures to
stimulate exports to whatever extent appears necessary, in the light
of further experience, to achieve the planned export targets. The main
measures presently planned or under concideration are discussed below.
(a)   To achieve the planned increase in agricultural exports,
the Government will bring agricultural support prices more closely
into line with world prices, thus providing a stronger incentive to
farmers to produce erportable commodities. Ilore generally, the Government
.intends to continue its policy of stimulating agricultural production
through increased use of modern inputs and techniques, including irrigation,
through better education and extension services, and througn support to
cooperatives. In addition, the Government recognises the need for
investment and planning to eliminate present storage and transportation
bottleneceks, for financial support of market research to identify
promising non-traditional export crops, and for financial support of
export-oriented production and marketing projects in the agricultural
sector.
(b)   Administrative procedurcs will be further simplified.
A study on the bureaucratic delays arising in the implementation of the
Temporary Import Regime has been completed with the participation of
the Ministries of Customs, Commerce, Finance and Industry. Based on
its findings an official decree is due to be published, which would simplify the
procedures related tc temporary importation of goods and their re-exportation,
and abolish the guarantee deposits required for temporary imports.
(c)   Control of standards and product quality will be improved.
(d)   Export insurance schemes which will cover both the
creditor and producer are being studied and will be put into effect as
soon as possible.
(e)   A Foreign Trade Institution will be set up which will
collect information, undertake market research and act as a means of
communication for both public and private sector.



- 40   -                    ANNEX I
Page 4
(r)   State Ecc omic Enterprises will bocome more active in
increasing exports. SUncrbank for cxanple, har already been asked to
try to mcet all export orders; in cascs where it does not produce thc
necessary items, it will cooperatc with the private sector to fill te
order.
(g)   Attempts will be made to divernify the comnodities cxported
and the markets to which Turkey exports with a rpecial emphacis on mecting
the needs of neighbouring countries in the Mdiddlc East.
(h)   Long term trade agreements will be sought and investment
and production will be planned accordingly.
(i)   Domestic and foreign investments aimed at exports sill
be given special facilities. Forcign credit, private foreign capital and
foreign technology will be encouraged for the purpose of export expansion.
(j) Special incentives will be provided for large scale projects
which intend to achieve more than a certain level of exports.
(k)   The protect exporters from e:change risks, the Central
Bank, under a forthcoming decree, will convert foreig- exchange earnings
either at thle rate prevailing at the time of actual conversion or at the
rate prevailing at the time of export registration, whichever is tlhe more
favourable tothe exporter.
Since several different ministries and agencies will be involved
in implementing the export promotion strategy, overall responsibility will
be with the Hligh Planning Council for coordinatinc their various efforts,
and for ensuring that the planned export targets are achieved. The Council
is chaired by the Prime Minister, whose members include three Ministers
chosen by the Council of Ministers, normally the Minister.- of Finance and
two others concerned with economic matters, and the head of the State
Planning Organisation. The State Planning Organisation is required to
submit quarterly reports to the High Planning Council on the implementation
of the Plan. These reports will include an account of actual export
performance in relation to the targcts established in the Plan and in the
Annual Programs, an evaluation of existing export-oriented policy mcasures
and of the effectiveness of their implementation, and reco.mcndatioris
conoerning changes in policy mcasures. These reports and recommendations
will be discussed by the M[igh Plainninmg Council. A summary of the ou-rterly
reports nlong with the decisions taken on new pol icV mca',lCO wi.ll be
provided qtuarterly for  ionfration to the World 1,;nmk ciirrinr tne first
eightcen months follOwTnr tnc effectLveness of theC Pro-r;m lyman. The
HiM   IPlann-ing Couancil wi1Lai turn recomend policy ch:nge  to the
Cover-nment where thcsc appear necessary to achievo export targets.



- 41 -                     ANNEX I
Page 5
In thin letter it is clearly not possible to spoll out
every detail of the Covernmcnt's utratcry to increase Turkey's forciga
exchange earning capacity. But thc paragraphs above, I hope, give a
fairly concrete imprcsoion of the scriousness of the Governmcnt in pursuin-
a vigorous export prcimotion policy, and of the broad targets and the
types of measures which the Government intends to pur3ue. With this
strateg,y, we believe that Turkey will bc able to achieve high rates of
economic growith without encountering serious balance of payments problems.
And in this taslk we look forward to a continuiation and extension of our
close and valuable relationiship wvith the W4orld Banl;.
With personal regards.
Yours Sincerely,
Ziya l.EzZiJ2 I
Minister of Finance
The TIonourable
Robert S. Mcllamara
President
The Wlorld Bank
Washington, D.C., 204.33
U.S.A.






- 43 -
WORLD BANK / INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
OFFICE MEMORANDUM                             ANNEX 2
TOMr. E. Asfour, Acting Director, EMENACPII
(Through M.T.Baig, Acting Division Chief, EM2DA)            DATE: Ray 2, 1979
FROMS. A. Faruqi, EM2DA
SUBJECTTURKEY - Program Loan Discussion
1.       During the .cecent visit of the Special Economic Mission to Turkey,
mission members (Mes3rs. Faruqi, Thadani and Wood) discussed Program Loan
matters with the Government. As per Loan Agreement, by the end of April, the
Bank and the Government were to have completed a mutually satisfactory review
of the initiatives of the Government concerning export promotion. This brief
note, therefore, concerns itself with this matter and also summarizes progress
in the implementation of the Program Loan.
Allocations and Disbursements
2.       As of mid-April, total official allocations of foreign exchange for
the import of items authorized under the Program Loan amounted to
$175 million. Of this $54.0 million has been requested for reimbursement from
the Bank, and about $34 million has been disbursed by the Bank, and the
applications for another $7.0 million should be ready for disbursement over
the next 7-10 days. The allocations are higher than the Program Loan amount
to ensure that enough payment requests, eligible under the Bank procedures,
would be available to draw down the loan amount. The excess allocation for
imports would be met from Government's own foreign exchange resources under
its regular program of imports. Sizeable allocations have been made to the
private sector, including; (a) nearly $45.0 million under the Import for
Export Promotion Scheme; (b) $19.4 million for materials for plant protection
and other chemicals for agriculture sector; (c) about $22.0 million for
materials for the production of fertilizer; and (d) about $2.7 million for
spare parts. Thus, the total allocations made to the private sector amount to
about $89 million, and the remaining $86 million have been allocated to the
public sector. Further, the Government estimates that $153.3 million of $175
million allocated has already been transferred or paid for by the Central Bank
of Turkey, and foreign commercial banks such as Banca Commerciale Italiana,
for which reimbursements from the Bank would be claimed depending upon if the
procurement were satisfactorily made under Bank procedures.
3.       With regard to actual disbursements, the Government concedes that the
necessary arrangements to use the Program Loan did not begin to be effective
until mid-February t:his year, and hence during November 1978 -- February 1979,
the draw down was very slow. Further, the Government has encountered serious
difficulties in effecting the import orders, since the commercial banks
involved demand proof of full coverage of letters of credits opened. This has
been difficult to a:rrange in view of the serious foreign exchange and payments
problems that Turkey is now facing. Moreover, Bank procedures did not permit
financing a large chunk of imports currently being obtained on various trade
financing arrangements such as cash against goods and acceptance credits,
which particularly affected steel imports.



-  44  -                     ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.       The mission discussed these matters with the Government and its view
is that after an initial slow start, disbursements are likely to pick-up,
provided the Government accords a higher priority to the use of Program Loan
funds by guaranteeing the LCs until the reimbursements are secured from the
Bank for suitable imports. Further, the mission stressed that since bulk
orders are quicker to process and have been particularly helpful in utilizing
the loan amount, therefore, the Government should try to move away from small
import orders to the bulk ones. To do this the Government will have to
suitably readjust the allocation between the sectors; and would have to raise
the total allocations to around $200 million to ensure rapid utilization of
all the funds in the loan.
5.       The Government has agreed to this proposal and in fact has already
made a larger allocation to agricultural sector and would increase allocations
to petrochemicals in the industrial sector. Under the Loan Agreement, a
minimum of $30 million were to be allocated to the Import for Export Promotion
Scheme. These allocations are already substantial and would be further
increased, though the draw down is likely to be slow, due to a large number of
fairly small parties involved. The Government has provided the mission a list
of these allocations, which are mainly to the private sector. During May and
June, the Government expects further drawings of $42.0 and $47.0 million
respectively from the loan. This is somewhat optimistic, though if the
Government readjusts the allocations and provides foreign exchange guarantees
for the LCs to be used for drawings under the loan, a large part of the loan
could be disbursed over the next two months.
Export Performance and Policy Developments
Performance
6.        In 1978, merchandise exports amounted to $2.25 billion, an increase
over 1977 of 28 percent in value terms, and about 24 percent in volume terms.
Most of the increase was contributed by agricultural commodities; but
industrial exports also, after a poor performance in the first half of the
years, increased rapidly in the latter part of the year. In the first two
months of 1979, the value of both agricultural and industrial exports was
about 45 percent greater than in the corresponding period of 1978. In March,
however, in anticipation of the latest incentive measures, export receipts
declined sharply. Nonetheless, it seems likely that the 1979 export target of
$2.75 billion will be achieved.
Policy Development
7.       Of the various export promotion measures under active consideration
at the time of the Finance Minister's letter to Mr. McNamara (August 23,
1978), and mentioned in that letter, several have been implemented:



-  45     -                  ANNEX 2
Page 3
(a)   Export targets for State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) and
AgricuLtural Sales Cooperatives have been specified in thie 197'
Implementation Program (part of the Annual Program), and SEE
employees have been given a financial incentive to surpass
these t:argets.
(b)   The Temporary Import Regime, which governs imports for
re-export, has been simplified.
(c)   The rules governing foreign investment have been revised to
permit foreign participation of up to 100 percent in projects
which are primarily export-oriented.
(d)   There has been a shift in agricultural price support policy,
with less emphasis being given to income support, and more to
encouraging the production of exportable (or
import-substitutable) commodities. To this end, support prices
are being announced earlier than usual.
8.        Some of the measures mentioned in the Minister's letter have not yet
been implemented:
(a)   The proposed export risk insurance scheme is still under
preparation by the Ministries of Finance and Commerce, with the
assistance of TSKB staff, following a study of comparable
schemes in other countries.
(b)   The proposed Export Promotion Center is still at early planning
stage.
(c)   Special incentives for large scale export projects have not
been introduced, although export-oriented projects in general
continue to be among those accorded priority in the allocation
of certificates of encouragement.
9.       On the other hand, a number of export promotion measures not
explicitly mentioned in the Minister's letter have been, or are about to be,
implemented:
(a)   In April 1979, the lira was devalued against the US dollar by
6 percent (from TL25 per dollar to TL26.5).
(b)   More im,portantly, an official parallel foreign exchange market
for industrial exporters has recently been introduced. Under
this scheme, exporters of minerals and manufactures are allowed
to retain 50 percent of their foreign exchange earnings; they
may use this either to finance their own import requirements,
or they may dispose of it to other industrialists who hold
import Licenses at whatever prices are mutually agreed. The



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
effective exchange rate received by industrial exporters is
thus elevated above the official rate by a margin dependent on
the disparity between the official rate and the rate prevailing
in the (well-developed) unofficial market for foreign
exchange. This is expected to have a substantial favorable
impact on industrial exports, and thus on production and
capacity utilization.
(c)   In order to increase Turkish foreign exchange earnings in the
promising overseas contracting market, the Government, in
conjunction with the leading commercial banks, has established
a Risk Fund to overcome the difficulties which Turkish firms
have hitherto experienced in posting performance bonds of the
size required in bidding for large contracts.
(d)   A decree shortly to be published will remove a number of the
main obstacles to exporting posed by the present export
licensing and registration system.
10.      In addition to the various specific measures mentioned above, it is
worth recording that the recent economic mission, after extensive contacts
with businessmen and bankers, as well as with civil servants, formed the
impression that the Government has been successful in arousing, for the first
time ever, widespread awareness of the need to export.
Other Economic Policy Measures
11.      In addition to the measures with regard to export promotion discussed
above, the Government has recently undertaken important economic policy
actions to improve upon the current economic situation. These are briefly
discussed below:
(a)   In addition to the 6 percent devaluation of the Turkish Lira
mentioned above, a 40 percent premium will be paid on workers'
remittances and tourism receipts, raising the rate to TL37.1 =
1.00. A further premium ot TL10 will be paid during April 10
- May 9, which will be reduced to TL5 for transactions during
May 10 - June 9, 1979. This would mean an exchange rate of
TL47.1 = $1.00 during April 10 - May 9, and TL42.1 = $1.00
during May 10 - June 9, 1979, applicable to worker's
remittances and tourism receipts. These new rates are much
closer to the rates prevailing in the unofficial market and are
expected to capture a significant part of foreign exchange
currently being channelled to it.
(b)   The Government also recently announced significant increase in
the prices of the SEEs, which are expected to yield an
additional TL80 billion in SEE revenues. This is equivalent to
about 5 percent of the GNP. The price increases are



-  47  -                      ANNEX 2
Page 5
particularly significant for gasoline (84 percent), fuel oil
(80 percent), diesel (82 percent), kerosene (110 percent),
cement (63 percent), and sugar (34 percent). The new oil
prices are now well above their imported cost at the current
rate of exchange. Increase in the prices of fuel oil is
expected to cause a 50 percent increase in power tariffs
through fuel cost adjustment clause. The Government estimates
that these additional revenues will keep the operating deficit
of SEEs i:o about TL26 billion, and thus help to lower the
financial requirements of the SEEs, and in turn, their need to
borrow from the Central Bank.
(c)   Production and export targets for the SEEs have been specified
and in some cases have been backed up with incentives.
Further, the SEEs have been granted limited autonomy to adjust
their product prices so as to enable them to remain within the
budgeted level of operating deficits that would be financed
from Treasury's resources. Also, a ceiling of 2 percent has
been imposed on increase in the workers employed by the SEEs.
This compares with nearly 20 percent annual increase in the
employment by the SEEs in the previous years, which has been a
major source of increases in SEEs operating costs. On both
these measures it remains to be seen whether the prescribed
restraints would be maintained.
(d)   To ensure more effective mobilization and allocation of
financial resources, interest rates for both deposit and
lending have been substantially augmented. For time deposits,
increased rates range from 12 percent for deposits between 6-12
months to 24 percent for those between 3-4 years. There is a
premium o0: 10 to 15 percentage points on the repatriated
savings of migrant workers. The interest rates for medium- and
long-term loans have been increased from nearly 10 percent to
16-20 percent.
(e)   The Government expects to significantly lower its
(consolidated) budget deficit from an estimated TL3& billion
last year to about TL24 billion in the current year. Since
there is nearly a year lag in tax revenues, the Government
expects a 40 percent increase in tax revenues this year as a
result of last year's fiscal measures and inflation, while its
investment expenditures are anticipated to be held about
10 percent below the level provided for in the approved
investment budget for the current year.



-  4E  -                     ANNEX 2
Page 6
Recommendation
12.      The mission is encouraged with the initiatives of the Government
regarding export promotion, and recommends that the disbursements on the
Program Loan be continued.
Attachment
cc and cleared with: Mr. Dubey
cc: Messrs. Benjenk (EMNVP), Bart (o/r) (EM2), Thadani (IDF), Wood (EM2)
Messrs. Davar, Palmer, Berk, Gregory (EM2), Zaidan, Gowen (EMP),
Perera (CTR), Grossman (LEG)
SAFaruqi:cml



-  49  -
ANNEX 3
TURKEY
Program Loan Allocations and Payment Requests
Official Allocations         Disbursement
Authorized       Private   Public               Requests from
Category               Allocations 1/   Sector    Sector    Total       the Bank 2/
Not less than
1.   Agriculture            40.0          41.4      8.8    60.2           18.6
Raw Materials for:
a. Fertilizer                        22.0      8.8    40.8           18.0
b. Chemicals for
plant
protection                        19.4      -      19.4           0.6
Not less than
2.   Spare Parts            20.0           2.7     20.0    22.7            0.9
3.   Raw Materials under
Import for Export   Not: less than
Promotion Scheme       30.0          45.0      9.0    54.0           5.7
4.                       Up to
Industry            60.0              0.4     37.4    37.8          28.7
a.   Steel                                 -       15.8     15.8          14.5
b.   Copper/Tin                            -        5.1     5.1           3.8
c.   Aluminum
d.   Petrochemicals                        0.4     16.5     16.9          10.4
TOTAL                    150.0            89.1     85.9   175.0          53.9
1/   As per Program Loan Agreement
2/   As of April 27, 1979, including about $13.0 million of requests in transit.



