Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19369-EGT
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
PRINCIPAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$225.0 MILLION
AND ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 55.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FORA
PRIVATE SECTOR AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 3, 1999
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 1999)
Currency Unit  Egyptian Pound (LE)
LE = US$0.28
US$1.00 - LE3.4
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL                 Adaptive Program Loan
AMP                 Agricultural Modernization Project
APCP                Agricultural Production and Credit Project
APRP                Agricultural Policy Reform Program
BDAC                Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
CAA                 Central Audit Agency
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CBE                 Central Bank of Egypt
EEAA                Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP              Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FRR                 Financial Rate of Return
GAAP                Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GOE                 Government of Egypt
IAS                 International Accounting Standards
IBP                 Institutional Building Plan
IBIS                Integrated Banlking Information System
KfW                 Kreditanstalthfr Wiederaufbau (German Development Agency)
LACI                Loan Administration Change Initiative
MALR                Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
MIS                 Management Infornation Systems
PBDAC               Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
PMD                 Project Management Department
PMR                 Project Management Report
PSADP               Private Sector and Agricultural Development Project
TAC                 Technical Advisory Committee
TIU                 Technical rimplementation Unit
TOR                 Terms of Reference
USAID               United States Agency for International Development
VB                  Village Bank
Vice President: Kemal DerviF
Counry Dir.ector: Khalid 1kram
Sector Director: Doris Kohn
Task Team Leader: Guzman Garcia-Rivero and Victor Agius



Egypt
Private Sector and Agricultural Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objectives ..........................................................2
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators ..................                      .................2
B. Strategic Context ...........................................................2
I. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ..........................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...........................................................             2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................                    .................5
C. Project Description Summary .........................................................7
1. Project components ...........................................................7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .....................                  ..................7
3. Benefits and target population ...........................................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ........................................................... 8
D. Project Rationale .......................................................... 11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..................................1.............I 1
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .......... 12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .............................. ................ 13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ......................................................  14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ....................................................... ... 14
E. Summary Project Analyses .......................................................... 15
1. Economic ......................................................... 15
2. Financial ......................................................... 15
3. Fiscal Impact .........................................................                                           15
4. Institutional ......................................................... 15
5. Social ......................................................... 16
6. Environmental assessment .........................................................                                16
7. Participatory approach .......................................................... 17
F. Sustainability and Risks ......................................................... 18
1. Sustainability ......................................................... 18
2. Critical risks .........................................................                                           18
3. Possible controversial aspects .........................................................                           19



G. Main Loan Conditions .............................                         19
1. Conditions for Negotiations ............................. 19
2. Conditions for Board Presentation ............................. 20
3. Conditions for Effectiveness ............................. 20
4. Conditions for Second Tranche Release .............................        20
5. Conditions for Third Tranche Release ............................. 21
6. Continuous Covenants .............................                        22
H. Readiness for Implementation ............................. 22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ............................. 22
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary
Annex 2.   Government of Egypt's Letter of Sector Development Policy
Annex 3.  Detailed Project Description
Annex 4:  Project Costs
Annex 5.  Institutional Analysis of PBDAC
Annex 6:   Financial Management System Assessment
Annex 7:  Environmental Management Plan
Annex 8.   Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 9.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table D    Consultants Selection Procedures
Table E    Procurement Plan
Annex 10. Description of the Project Management Department (PMD)
Annex 11. Agricultural Technology Dissemination and Promotion Sub-Component
Annex 12. Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 13. Documents in Project File
Annex 14. Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 15. Country at a Glance
MapNo. IBRD 30298



Egypt
Private Sector and Agricultural Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Egypt Country Department
Date: June 3, 1999                         Task Team Leaders: Guzman Garcia-Rivero/Victor Agius
Country Director: Khalid Ikramn              Sector Director: Doris K6hn
Project ID: 53832      Sector: Financial     Program Objective Category:
Lending Instrument: Financial Intermediary Loan   Program of Targeted Intervention:   []  Yes  [x] No
Project Financing Data          [x] Loan    [x] Credit    [  Guarantee    [ ] Other [Specifyl
For Bank Loan:
Amount: US$ 225.0 million
Proposed terms:                   []   Multicurrency [x]  Single currency, US Dollar
Grace period (years): 5 years    []   Standard  [3   Fixed        [XI    LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 20 years
Commitment fee: 0.75%, less any applicable waivers
Service charge:
For IDA Credit:
Amount: SDR 55.5 million equivalent
Proposed terms:                   []  Multicurrency       []   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10 years   [    Standard Variable  []   Fixed     [   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35 years
Commitment fee: 0.50%, less any applicable waivers
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                          Local           Foreign           Total
Government
PBDAC                                               51.25             --              51.25
IBRD                                                19.59           205.41            225.0
IDA                                                 17.08            57.92            75.00
Private Sub-borrowers                               127.81             --            127.81
Total     215.73           263.33           479.06
Borrower: Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC); Government of Egypt (GOE)
Guarantor: GOE
Responsible agency: PBDAC
Estimated disbursements (Bank/IDA        2000    2001       2002     2003    2004   2005
FY/US$M):
Annual  30.0    57.6       60.1     61.7    61.8   28.8
Cumulative  30.0    87.6      147.7    209.4   271.2  300.0
Project implementation period: 5 V2 years Expected effectiveness date: 2/28/00 Expected closing date: 12/31/05



Page 2                               Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Project Appraisal Document
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The proposed Private Sector and Agriculture Development Proj ect (PSADP) seeks to support the
Government of Egypt's (GOE) continuing policies of encouraging broad-based private-sector-led
growth in order to meet the need for increased employment opportunities and income for a
rapidly growing population. The specific development objectives of the PSADP are to:
(i) promote rural economic development, leading to increased income and employment in rural
Egypt; and (ii) strengthen financial and institutional viability of the Principal Bank for
Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC), a public-sector institution that is in effect the
main institution providing financial services in rural Egypt. The project will support these
objectives by helping improve financial intermediation in the rural areas, thus enhancing the
access of the rural population to credit and other financial services on a long-term sustainable
basis, and by improving the availability of term investment funds through a line of credit of about
US$ 315 million equivalent. The Project aims to support the transformation of PBDAC from a
multifarious agricultural development agency - with deteriorating financial viability - into a
sound rural financial intermediary that is self-sustaining over the long term and is able to provide
a wide range of banking services throughout the country on a cost-effective basis. The Project
design includes a comprehensive time-phased program of reforms and institutional strengthening
for PBDAC. The pace of commitment of the line of credit would be closely linked to the
effective implementation of the institutional building plan. Key performance indicators for the
above objectives (detailed in Annex 1: Project Design Summary) are as follows:
Rural economic development, leading to increased income and employment: (i) Number of
jobs created as a result of the project; (ii) increased lending to, and savings mobilization from the
rural and/or agricultural private sector; and (iii) increase in the number of PBDAC clients.
Strengthenedfinancial and institutional viability of PBDAC: (i) implementation by PBDAC of
its institutional building plan; and (ii) improved financial and operational indicators, including
return on assets of at least 1 percent, ratio of administrative costs to assets of no more than 5
percent, capital adequacy ratio of 12 percent, and full classification and provisioning according
to CBE regulations.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16533-EGT   Date of latest CAS discussion: May 29, 1997.
The proposed project supports the CAS strategy of focusing Bank assistance on activities that:
(i) support job creation and rural development, through promoting private-sector led growth, and
(ii) improve the soundness and efficiency of the financial sector in Egypt. In addition to these
areas, the project would also support export growth, which is a major CAS focus area. While
direct agricultural exports represent only about 5 percent of total exports, the sector is the source
of about 65 percent of the inputs to the industrial sector, and consequently represents an
important percentage of many manufactured exports. The project would contribute to the
progress benchmarks specified in the CAS of maintaining non-oil merchandise exports above 10
percent of total exports. This project, which was not envisioned at the time of the CAS, was
prepared at the specific request of the GOE.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Macro-Economic Context. The GOE is basing its current five-year plan (FY98-02) on a rapid
growth scenario in which GDP is estimated to grow at nearly 6-7 percent per year, leading to a



Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project                    Page 3
Project Appraisal Document
65 percent increase in per capita income by the year 2002 and a decrease in the unemployment
rate to 6 percent. This high-growth scenario is the basis for the Bank's assistance strategy to
Egypt.
To reach these targets, total domestic investment will have to rise from the present 20 percent of
GDP to 25 percent of GDP by the year 2002. Much of this investment will need to be made in
manufacturing- particularly in tradeables - with short gestation periods and relatively high labor
inputs. However, while the industry and service sectors bear a large part of the Government's
growth scenario, the rural population - 45 percent of the total population - has a significant role
to play, both as producers of goods and exports in their own right, and as producers of inputs into
manufacturing and industry.  Because predicted increases in domestic savings would not be
large enough to finance these growing investment requirements, a significant gap would remain
to be filled with foreign direct investment and foreign borrowing, including the World Bank and
other donors.
Agriculture and the Rural Sectors: About 29 million (45 percent) of Egypt's population live in
rural areas. Agriculture directly employs 4.5 million people (31 percent of employment), and
contributes 17 percent of Egypt's GDP and 12 percent of merchandise exports. This, however,
underestimates the role of agriculture in the economy.  If marketing and processing of
agricultural products is included, the sector is the origin of about 40 percent of GDP, 50 percent
of overall employment and 22 percent of commodity exports. Agricultural production in Egypt is
almost entirely dependent on irrigation and therefore closely linked to the Nile River and its
management The Government has embarked on an ambitious program in southern Egypt to
reclaim new land for development in agriculture, tourism, industry, services and mining, thereby
permitting Egyptians to settle away from the crowded Nile valley and delta. Once realized, this
program would add almost 900,000 feddans' to the existing 7.5 million feddans of land under
cultivation (12 per cent increase). However, given the complexity of this program, increased
agricultural output from these areas will only affect agricultural value added in the longer term.
With irrigation, fertile alluvial soils, year-round sunshine and a skilled labor force, Egypt has
attained a cropping intensity of 190 percent (bringing the total cropped area to about 14 million
feddans) and yield levels ranking among the highest in the world. The major crops are wheat,
maize, berseem, rice, cotton, beans, sugarcane and horticultural crops. Until the mid-1980s
agriculture in Egypt was organized as a planned, government-controlled system with extensive
government intervention and almost total control in supply, production, pricing, and marketing of
agricultural inputs and outputs. The resulting slow growth2 led the GOE to reverse these
policies. Since 1986 the Government has removed most production, price, and delivery quotas
and controls on marketing; prices have been allowed to reach market-determined levels; many
subsidies on inputs have been removed; and the supply of inputs and domestic and export
marketing has largely been privatized. With the exception of restrictions in a few areas (sugar
production, the purchase of imported wheat, and subsidization of water services and, to a certain
extent, credit services), the agricultural marketplace is now virtually free. These policies have
begun to reverse the very low sector growth rates of the early 1 980s, which had fallen as low as
1.8 percent. Agricultural research has in the past played a significant role in the achievement of
crop yields and cropping intensity, however, transmission and exploitation of research findings in
techniques and technology has lagged due to deficiencies in extension delivery and the lack of
incentives in pre-liberalization Egypt. There is, therefore, a reserve of technology that could be
I    One feddan equals 1.038 acre or 0.38 ha.
2    Average annual agricultural growth was about 2.7 percent in the 1960s and 3.5 percent in the 1970s
(helped by the Aswan dam), but declined to 2.5 percent in the 1980s.



Page 4                               Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Project Appraisal Document
tapped for improved productivity, the dissemination of which the GOE is improving. In addition,
GOE is pursuing the privatization of remaining state-owned agro-processing companies. The
opening of the market to the private sector, and in particular to small- and medium-sized
enterprises, and the availability of technological inputs, has created a market for credit services
that, despite an extensive rural banking network, is not well served.  In addition, many
technological investments, while accessible to large farmers, may not be accessible to smaller
farmers, or may only be accessible only on a group basis.
Demandfor Rural and Agricultural Finance: There are several macroeconomic indications of
continuing need for agricultural and rural finance. In 1997, of a gross domestic investment of
some L.E. 50 billion, some L.E. 4.8 billion (US$1.4 B) was in agriculture and irrigation. Of that
amount, the estimated share of the private sector is about L.E. 2.6 billion (US$760 M).
Assuming high economic growth and that agriculture maintains its share in total investments,
annual investment requirements in agriculture would increase to some L.E. 6.5 billion (US$1.9
B) by the 2002. The share of the private sector in agricultural investments has increased from
about one-third in 1993 to about half in 1997. If this trend continues in line with expectations, as
much as 75 percent, or L.E. 4.9 billion (US$1.4 billion), would be required from the private
sector in the year 2002. A large part of this would have to be financed through the banking
system. Although no data is available, the estimated investment would be substantially larger
when the whole rural sector is considered.
Prior to liberalization of the agricultural sector, there were few opportunities for profitable small
and medium-sized rural activities, mainly due to controls on movement of raw materials and
trading margins, consumer subsidies, and the domination by state-owned processing and
distribution operations. Public enterprises accounted for the bulk of agro-industries, dominating
production as well as distribution operations. Elimination of controls on trading and phasing out
of subsidies has already led to vigorous growth of private investnent and trading in seeds, feed
and fertilizers.
However, privatization of public enterprises engaged in the production of farm inputs and
processing of agricultural commodities has just begun. Greater momentum in the privatization of
these enterprises will change the existing arrangements for both processing and marketing, and
new  opportunities for private investments will emerge.  Also, the further expansion of
Government's technology dissemination program and push for vertical integration will add to
demand for investment credit. The Social Assessment carried out as part of project preparation,
found that there was unmet demand for credit, particularly for both medium and small borrowers
that indicated that loan amounts approved were insufficient in relation to real demands (possibly
due to fixed collateral).
Supply of Agricultural and Rural Financial Services: The financial sector in Egypt is
dominated by the banking system, which consists of the Central bank of Egypt (CBE), 60
commercial banks, and four specialized state banks (including PBDAC)3. Government is heavily
involved in the sector; it owns 100 percent of the four specialized banks and the four major
commercial banks, which together account for almost 70 percent of total deposits and 65 percent
of credit. The state's level of involvement is actually higher since the state-owned banks hold
significant stakes in several other banks and related financial businesses that together account for
about another 10 percent of total credit. Until 1991, the GOE explicitly used financial
intermediation as an instrument to finance the budget deficit and investments in priority sectors.
3    The others are the Industrial Development Bank and two real estate banks.



Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project                      Page 5
Project Appraisal Document
Since then, the GOE has instituted a series of reforms designed to channel increased savings into
private investments and to enhance the efficiency of financial intermediation by increased
reliance on market signals and competition. These reforms, which were underpinned by a
sustained reduction in the GOE's financing requirements, included: (i) a move towards indirect
instruments of monetary control; (ii) the liberalization of bank interest rates and the deregulation
of the banking sector; and (iii) new banking legislation and related institutional reforms to
strengthen prudential regulations and supervisory oversight by the CBE. Still, high minimum
capital requirements and a fairly restrictive attitude by the licensing authorities have limited new
entrants, and today the sector remains dominated by the state-owned banks. This ownership
structure has dampened competition in the sector, with interest rate movements being
significantly restrained. More importantly, intermediation costs in Egypt remain high, thus
posing an effective tax on financing. Based on CBE data, it appears that the intermediation costs
of the four state commercial banks average about 3.5 percent, considerably above the accepted
norm for most efficient banks. The costs for the specialized banks are higher; in fact, PBDAC
has an intermediation cost of about 5.5 percent. Improving the institutional efficiency of the
banks forms an important part of the reform agenda of GOE, which has already indicated its
commitment to the gradual privatization of the commercial banks.
As far as the rural and agricultural sectors are concerned, PBDAC (including its affiliated
regional public banks - the BDACs) remains to-date the only financial institution present
throughout rural Egypt. It accounts for about 75 percent of total credit for agriculture (rural
finance is a category that is not accounted for specifically in the statistics). The rest, mostly
lending for big farmers and agro-complexes, is extended by state commercial banks that show
little enthusiasm to venture into smaller-scale loans or beyond the periphery of large urban areas.
For these reasons, the GOE acknowledges that for the near term the rural sector and agriculture
will continue to look mainly to PBDAC to meet their credit and other banking needs. It is for this
reason that the GOE attaches such high importance to the reform of PBDAC, to improve its
operating and cost efficiency and long-term sustainability, and to increase its outreach and the
range of financial products it offers, and has requested the Bank's support in this endeavor.
Throughout project preparation, the GOE has reaffirmed its commitment and support for the
program of reforms and institutional strengthening of PBDAC that is the central thrust of the
proposed project. Under this program PBDAC has formally adopted a mission statement that
emphasizes its aim of becoming a sound and autonomous financial intermediary operating on a
market basis. It has also prepared a detailed business plan, and an institutional building plan, to
be implemented over the period of the proposed project, designed to strengthen its accounting
and control systems, marketing of its financial products, resource mobilization, and asset-liability
management, as to guide its transition to becoming an effective and modem financial
intermediary.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.
A key issue that would be addressed by the proposed Project is the need to build up a sound
institution for financing agricultural and rural economic activities. Although in the area of
physical inputs and outputs the move away from central planning to a market-based system
quickly spurred the private sector to provide the required services on a more efficient basis, this
has not been the case for financial services. Evidence, including from the Bank's ongoing
Agricultural Modernization Project (AMP, Cr. 25850-EG and Ln. 37190-EG), suggests that
commercial banks are reluctant to venture beyond urban areas because of the high up-front costs
of establishing new facilities in these areas and the scattered clientele, as well as the perceived
small margins associated with such lending. The lack of priority given by commercial banks to



Page 6                                 Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Project Appraisal Document
agriculture is underlined by the fact that only two percent of their combined portfolios is for
agricultural credit. PBDAC, on the other hand, whose mandate is to focus on agricultural and
cooperative credit needs, has built up over the years significant skills in these areas and
maintains close relations with this clientele. With its nearly 1,000 branch offices4 throughout the
country it accounts for about 75 percent of all agricultural lending. PBDAC's 3.8 million clients
represent almost 80 percent of rural households,5 an amazing coverage that is best explained by
PBDAC's past role in a centrally planned economy as the state-owned monopoly in charge of
distributing all agricultural inputs and providing necessary finance to farmers. The proposed
Project seeks to leverage PBDAC's existing infrastructure and know-how, and to help its
transition to a market-based and financially sound intermediary so that it can meet the credit
needs of the agricultural and rural sectors in Egypt on a financially sustainable basis.
It is however recognized that the transformation of PBDAC will take time. The agricultural
reforms, in particular the privatization of input sales, have led PBDAC to lose significant
revenues and left the bank saddled with excess staff and redundant physical facilities. In recent
years its financial performance has deteriorated sharply. Given this situation, and the complexity
of the PBDAC organization, the most pragmatic strategy to ensure continued availability of
financing to agriculture is to re-invigorate the transformation of PBDAC. This is the choice of
the GOE, and one for which purpose it is seeking the Bank's support. The Project design
incorporates a comprehensive plan to help transform PBDAC into a competitive,
commercially-oriented financial institution run autonomously without Government interference
that will focus on the area it has always served, i.e., meeting the needs of Egypt's agricultural
sector and rural population.
Over the longer term, as the institution building being undertaken under the project takes root,
and its financial results and situation improve, PBDAC should be in a position to access the
capital markets for long-term funds in its own right and float longer term instruments in local
currency (LE) to help diversify and lengthen the duration of its resource base.
In addition to the institutional strengthening of PBDAC, the project will address, on a pilot basis,
ways to improve the dissemination of agricultural technology, at the same time developing
product marketing strategies within PBDAC. This was felt by MALR to be a priority area, and
one in which there were significant synergies between extension activities and PBDAC credit
marketing activities.
4    According to latest available estimate by the Central Bank, all the conmmercial banks taken together
have about 1200 branches, of which some 730 are outside Cairo and Alexandria.
5    Assuming one client per household.



Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project                      Page 7
Project Appraisal Document
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 3for a detailed description and Alnnex 4for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component               Categorv      Cost Incl.   % of      Bank-      % of
Contingencies   Total   financing    Bank-
(LUS$M               US$M';   financing
1. Line of Credit                   Credit        443.31      92.5%     267.75    89.3%
2. Institution Building            Technical       33.50       7%         30.00    10.0%
2.1 Audit                       Assistance;
2.2 Operations and management   Goods and
2.3 Information Technology      equipment
2.4 Agriculture Technology
Dissemnination and Promotion
2.5 Project Management
3. Front-end fee                                   2.25       0.5%       2.25      0.7%
Total    479.06       100%     300.0       100%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project will support the Government's general policy of moving the Egyptian
economy onto a market basis with private-sector-led growth. It will also support the objective of
building a stronger and more robust financial sector that can intermediate financial resources
more efficiently. The project would promote investments in the agricultural and rural sectors by
increasing the availability of term investment resources, and by helping to strengthen and
transform PBDAC (including its BDACs) into an autonomous and financially sound rural bank.
The project would support a major institution building effort in PBDAC to improve its operating
efficiency and turn it into a sound and self-sustaining financial intermediary. This effort
encompasses: (i) the modernization of PBDAC's corporate and legal foundations in order to
facilitate its transformation into a bank that operates on a cormmercial basis; (ii) the adoption by
the Board of Directors of the PBDAC, and ratification by the GOE, of a comprehensive mission
and strategy statement; (iii) the preparation and adoption of a rolling three-year business plan
(with relevant financial projections) to guide the business operations; and (iv) a comprehensive
and time-phased institutional building plan that would be implemented over the envisaged five
year implementation period of the proposed project. This program would be complemented by a
concerted effort to build up PBDAC's accounting and MIS systems, and to introduce - for the
first time - a more robust audit process to be conducted by independent private auditors of
international repute. Details are attached in Annexes 5 and 6.
3. Benefits and target population:
Through the credit line, the project would assist primarily small and medium-sized private farms
and agro-based enterprises involved in marketing, storing or processing and transport of
products, as well as custom services related to the provision of mechanized services and
rural-based businesses involved in the provision of goods and services to the general population.
An estimated 10,000 new sub-loans would be financed from this credit line during the project
life. At the farm level, the project benefits would accrue from the adoption of more efficient
technological packages increasing crop yields and improving natural resource management,
resulting in higher farm and rural household incomes. Similarly, by financing other small- and



Page 8                               Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Project Appraisal Document
medium-scale rural enterprises the project is expected to increase value added, reduce
post-harvest losses, increase the marketing efficiency and enhance the quality of final products,
resulting in employment generation and enhanced rural incomes. Indirectly, the project is
expected to benefit a significant part of the rural population residing in the areas of production
and involved in economic activities. It is estimated that a total of about 50,000 new permanent
jobs would be created in rural Egypt as a consequence of the project, either directly or indirectly.
PBDAC's institutional building plan is expected to improve its ability to provide a broader range
of services to its clientele, with improved efficiency and in a more customer-friendly manner.
Over time, the cost of services to clients would decrease, particularly as competition in the rural
financial sector increases.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Loan and credit proceeds: Project funds under the World Bank loan (US$225.0 million) would
be lent directly to PBDAC, under a GOE guarantee, US$222.75 of which would be used for
onlending to finance eligible subprojects and US$2.25 million would be for payment of the
front-end fee. Project funds under the IDA credit (US$75 million equivalent) lent to the
Government, would be onlent to PBDAC on the same terms and conditions as those to the
Governmnent, to finance eligible subprojects (US$45 million equivalent) and PBDAC's
institutional building plan (US$30 million equivalent). For both the loan and the credit,
Government would cover PBDAC against foreign exchange risk. This coverage would be
granted against payment to the Government by PBDAC of a market premium, based on the
difference between the rate on the loan and the average (publicly quoted) interest rate paid by
any two of the four state-owned commercial banks in Egypt on six-month customer deposits in
local currency. This rate would be adjusted to also reflect any future increases in the applicable
reserve requirements from the present level of 15 percent. In addition, PBDAC would pay a
guarantee fee of 0.125% on the Bank loan and on the IDA credit6.
Project management: The project would be managed by the Project Management Department
(PMD), already established within PBDAC under the Chairman's office. The PMD would be led
by a Project Coordinator, who would have a small management staff responsible for project
monitoring, reporting and coordination with the World Bank and with PBDAC's Chairman. The
Coordinator would oversee four units: (i) the Institutional Development Unit, which would
manage all aspects of the institutional building plan; (ii) the Agricultural Technical Unit, which
would manage the Agricultural Technology Dissemination and Promotion sub-component; (iii) a
Financial and Accounting Unit, which would oversee all aspects related to disbursements,
finance, accounting, and reporting procedures; and (iv) the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit,
which would be responsible for monitoring all project activities and for evaluating the impact of
the Project based on agreed indicators, including measurements for the impact of project
investmnent loans on borrowers' incomes and on employment and the impact on the institution
building plan on PBDAC's operations and finances.
Line of credit: Subborrower eligibility criteria: Subborrowers would be limited to private
individuals and enterprises either engaged in, or who propose to engage in, viable economic
6    GOE recognizes that these interest rate arrangements with respect to the IDA Credit mean that it
would be passing on to PBDAC a substantial part of the IDA grant element, and that this represents a
departure from standing Bank Group policy regarding onlending rates for financial intermediaries.
However, it felt strongly that this support for PBDAC was necessary in view of the substantial and costly
institution building effort that PBDAC would be undertaking under the Project.



Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project                    Page 9
Project Appraisal Document
activities and who satisfy PBDAC's lending requirements. Financing under the Project would
cover all categories of agricultural and rural investment, including investment in such activities
as transportation, storage, and trading of agricultural inputs or products, irrigation investments,
small industry and commerce. Permanent working capital related to investments would also be
eligible for funding included in the investment sub-project. The only items not eligible for
financing ("negative list") would be: (i) short-term seasonal crop loans for less than one year;
(ii) land acquisition;  (iii) purchase, storage, processing or distribution of pesticides; and
(iv) refrigeration and cooling units utilizing ozone-depleting substances. Subprojects would be
appraised by PBDAC and its affiliates, and would be limited to those appraised as financially
viable - demonstrating a rate of return of at least the cost of capital - and technically and
environrmentally sound.  Maximum sub-loan size would not exceed US$3 million to any
subborrower or group of related subborrowers. A minimum equity contribution of 25 percent of
the total subproject cost would be required.
Implementation of the institutional building component: As detailed in Annex 3 (Detailed
Project Description), of the US$30 million equivalent allocated to institutional building
activities, approximately US$4.5 million would be allocated to a comprehensive, multi-year audit
of PBDAC; approximately US$12 million would fund hardware, software, and technical
assistance to improve accounting and financial reporting, particularly among the Village Banks;
approximately $4 million would fund studies of new agricultural technologies and the cost of
information dissemination and technology promotion; and approximately US$9.5 million would
be allocated to assist PBDAC in implementing its institution building plan and business plan, as
well as for supporting PMD activities. The PMD would oversee all activities under the
component, whose staff would coordinate (i) the design of assignments and drafting of TOR;
(ii) receipt of Bank prior approvals and no-objections, where necessary; (iii) contracting,
monitoring, and payment of consultants; (iv) tracking of component progress; and (v)
procurement of goods, in coordination with PBDAC management and line staff, as applicable.
The implementation of the institutional building plan, in particular the tasks related to operations
and management, would be undertaken with the assistance of an international consulting firm
recruited under competitive procedures. Such firm would, for example, assist in the further
definition of needs and priorities, the preparation and implementation of policies, procedures,
and manuals of various units (in conjunction with the relevant units), design and carry out
training programs through the bank, and conduct relevant studies.
Project procurement and disbursements: (Please see Annex 9 for a detailed description of
project procurement and disbursement.) Procurement under the sub-projects financed from the
the line of credit will be the responsibility of individual sub-borrowers and will therefore follow
standard local commercial practices. All contracts by these sub-borrowers (for civil works,
goods and services) *above an equivalent to US$1 million would be procured following
International Competitive Bidding procedures, in accordance with Bank's Procurement
Guidelines, and using Standard Bidding Documents. Regarding the procurement of technical
assistance, goods, and equipment under the institutional building component to be implemented
by PBDAC, this institution has significant experience in Bank requirements due to its
involvement in several previous projects. The PMD will be responsible for managing the
procurement and disbursement aspects related to contracting of consultants and the provision of
goods and equipment under the project, and will ensure that bidding, procurement, contracting,
and disbursement take place within Bank guidelines. The PMD will also be responsible for
preparing specifications for any equipment that is needed.



Page 10                            Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Project Appraisal Document
After the effectiveness conditions are met, an initial amount of US$9 million would be deposited
into the Loan Special Account and US$3 million into the Credit Special Account. The funds
under Category 2 of the Credit, for the Institutional Building Component, would be used by
PBDAC as needed and disbursements supported by eligible expenditures. However, the use of
the funds available under Categories I of both the Loan and the Credit (for the operationalization
of the credit line) would be linked to the performance of PBDAC in the implementation of the
Institutional Building Plan (IBP) and on the improvement of its financial performance. Three
sets of monitorable benchmarks were established for this purpose which are linked to the three
sub-categories (or Tranches) in both the credit and the loan. The ones corresponding to Tranche
1 (sub-category 1 (a)) would be part of the conditions for effectiveness. Therefore, PBDAC
would have access to US$75 million from the loan and US$15 million from the credit after these
benchmarks are met. All disbursements would be made against receipts of eligible subloans,
except that the total amount disbursed in any 12-month period would not exceed 50 percent of
the incremental net growth in PBDAC's outstanding loans in that period, thereby supporting
expansion of the portfolio, but at the same time spurring PBDAC's efforts toward resource
mobilization. In order to assure the compliance with these benchmarks, the Bank would not
accept withdrawal applications:
(a) Tranche 2: or above US$ 75.0 million from the EBRD loan and US$ 15.0 million from
the IDA credit (or a total combined of US$ 90.0 million), until PBDAC has complied with
the second group of benchmarks.
(b) Tranche 3: or above US$ 150.0 million from the IBRD loan and US$ 30.0 million
from the IDA credit (or a total combined of US$ 180.0 million), until PBDAC has
complied with the third group of benchmarks.
Project monitoring, reporting and auditing:. The PMD will be responsible for monitoring
project progress and for preparing quarterly implementation progress reports (Project
Management Reports - PMRs) satisfactory to the Bank. The reports will be reviewed by PBDAC
management and submitted to the Bank within 45 days of the end of each quarter.
Disbursements under the line of credit would be audited yearly, in conjunction with the overall
audit of the bank, to monitor eligibility of sub-loans and net growth of the lending portfolio. The
PMD would also submit yearly project implementation reports. In addition, the PMD would
prepare and submit tranche-release requests, detailing PBDAC's achievement of each of the
agreed tranche-release benchmarks. The three tranches of the line of credit would not be
released without such requests and the Bank's subsequent no-objection. The PMD would
monitor compliance with IDA guidelines on procurement, credit covenants, budgets, and project
accounts (including commitments and disbursements). A mid-term review would be carried out
in FY2002.
Financial management systems: Significant problems with PBDAC's financial management
were identified during project preparation, including inconsistent internal accounting procedures,
non-computerization of many accounts and reporting, with subsequent delays and inaccuracies in
the consolidation of accounts, inadequate internal control procedures, weak external auditing,
and weak internal financial reporting. PBDAC is in the process of addressing several of these
issues. However, resolution would likely require several years of concerted effort. For these
reasons, although the PMD would prepare and submit PMRs, these will not form the basis of
project disbursements.



Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project                   Page 11
Project Appraisal Document
In order to address the financial management weaknesses outlined above, an agreed-upon
financial management strengthening program will be implemented in the context of the
institution development plan. The program includes:
*  Accounting: Finalizing the accounting procedures manual update and training of staff in
the use of the manual and procedures and in implementation guidelines;
* Control: Preparation and dissemination of an internal controls procedural manual and
creation of a unit to oversee the control function. Further audit process would include
the performance of due diligence on each financial statement section;
*  MIS: Implementation of a uniform system for the transmission of all accounting and
financial data, instituting monthly updating of accounting records and reporting, and
pilot testing of the integrated bank information system (IBIS);
The details of the financial management assessment and recommendations are included as
Annex 6. An Action Plan for the strengthening of the Financial Management System was agreed
upon during negotiations, and is attached to the Minutes of Negotiations.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Use of an apex arrangement with the inclusion of several participating banks to disburse the
line of credit: A line of credit using an apex arrangement was considered. Such an arrangement
has been used previously by Bank-supported FILs in Egypt aimed at the industrial sector and in
the AMP, but results have been discouraging. In addition, the structure of the rural finance
market and surveys conducted during project preparation indicate a lack of interest on the part of
commercial banks to engage in rural credit operations, except with large agricultural corporations
or other large borrowers close to the main urban centers.
Following the model of the AMP: Initially, when the credit line under the AMP was fully
disbursed, it was envisaged that the proposed project be a follow up operation modeled on its
predecessor. This appeared particularly attractive since the agricultural technology transfer
component, which was executed by the MALR extension service, was very successful. However,
several factors led the project team away from that model. First, the AMP has not been very
successful at introducing substantial reforms in PBDAC, nor at preventing the GOE from: (i)
mandating lower interest rates charged by PBDAC; (ii) requiring PBDAC to carry out services
to farmers without adequate and timely payment; or (iii) delaying the repayment of the
Government overdue debts. It was therefore agreed that any future project needed to focus on
the restructuring and the financial strengthening of PBDAC. In addition, the Government is not
very interested in borrowing from the Bank for institution building and technical assistance to
strengthening the traditional extension activities carried out by the MALR, preferring rather to
pass on as many of its responsibilities as possible to the private sector.
Technical assistance project:  A purely technical assistance project was considered, but
PBDAC's financial situation - in particular, its asset/liability mismatch and overall need for
sources of longer-term funding - pointed toward a line of credit. Such funds are also seen as a
powerful incentive for both PBDAC and the Government to undertake necessary reforms.
Adaptable Program Loan (APL): This option was not adopted for several reasons. First, the
institutional building plan of PBDAC is seen as a single integral program that needs to be
pursued without interruption. More importantly, an APL would have assumed a greater ability to



Page 12                                 Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Project Appraisal Document
predict PBDAC's funding needs than actually exists. In terms of one of the main benefits of an
APL - that the loan is only disbursed on satisfactory implementation of a program of reforms - it
was felt that tranching of loan disbursement based on set benchmarks would have the same effect
in terms of risk-minimization.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                      Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Bank-financed                                                   Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Under Implementation:
Low availability of credit to disadvantaged   Sohag Rural Development  S               S
groups; lack of local administrative  Project (Cr. 31270)
capacity for small-scale investments; need
for imnprovement in small-scale
infrastructure.
Low agricultural productivity and     Agricultural                    S                S
technology; lack of capital for agro-based    Modernization Project (Cr.
enterprises; low rural savings rates; low  25850; Ln. 37190)
participation of commercial banks in rural
lending.
Completed:
Low agricultural productivity; difficulties    Second Agricultural    S                S
in imnporting needed agricultural     Development Project (Cr.
machinery; government ownership/       2561)
management of key agricultural inputs
Other development agencies
USAID:
Pricing, marketing and trade; private  Agricultural Policy Reform
investment and privatization; efficiency of   Program (APRP);
public investment and sustainable      Agricultural Production
agriculture; water use and management  and Credit Project (APCP)
policies; and food security concerns.
Study, develop, and monitor the impact of   Technical Assistance for
policy reforms. Also funds research grants  Agricultural Policy Reform
for special topics such as food security.  (TAAPR)
Assists development of a sustainable   Agriculture Technology
research agency.                      Utilization and Transfer
(ATUT)
Supports small and emerging businesses;    Small Enterprise Credit
develops institutional mechanisms capable  (SEC)
of providing assistance to businesses, using
various NGO intermediary organizations
that combine fmancial, technical assistance,



Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project                         Page 13
Project Appraisal Document
training, and other services.
GTZ:                                  Ismaeliya Agricultural
Credit (1988-1998)
European Union                        Agricultural Credit Line
(ongoing)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The main lesson incorporated into the design and preparation of the project is that the
transformation of a large state organization - traditionally neither profit- nor client-oriented -
into an efficient credit institution requires a comprehensive development program, implemented
over a reasonable period of time, and with high-level support, energy, and conviction.7
Significant effort has therefore gone into making a thorough assessment of the institutional and
financial strengths and weaknesses of PBDAC, and into preparing a detailed institution building
plan. This program covers financial management systems, internal accounting and control, audit,
administrative cost controls, and strategic business development. While this program has been
developed jointly with PBDAC's management, it is recognized that full and effective
implementation will require persistence and close supervision and may at times face oposition
from more traditional sectors.
Experience from previous agricultural sector projects in Egypt (in particular, the First and
Second Agricultural Development Projects [Cr. 830 and Ln. 2561]) highlighted the importance
of allowing market-based interest rates to be charged on deposits and loans, in order to promote
both market-based decisions on borrowing and lending, and to reduce directed credit and the
need for Government subsidies of public banks. Although limits on PBDAC's lending rates were
lifted during the overall financial sector liberalization in the early 1990s, allowing it to charge
market-based rates, in 1996 there was a reversal when a new cabinet instructed PBDAC to
reduce its interest rates on all loans by 3 percent, in contravention of the legal agreement of the
AMP. Interest rates were (until recently) capped at 11 percent for short-term loans, 12 percent
for medium-term loans, and 13 percent for long-term loans. PBDAC further reduced interest
rates on short-term crop loans by 1 percent in December 1998 to 10 percent. In order to
compensate, PBDAC has introduced various fees charged for loans, but these have been
generally nominal and nowhere near enough to make up for the lost revenues. In the context of
the preparation of this project, the Government has now committed to giving full autonomy to
PBDAC in its lending and interest rate policies. In this regard also, a key benchmark for the
commitment of the line of credit is the level of interest rates (both minimum and average interest
rates) applied by PBDAC. These are expected to increase such that PBDAC, over the life of the
project, can show a profit after taking into account full provisioning requirements.
Another relevant lesson is that in financial intermediary loans, the promotion of domestic savings
mobilization is an essential ingredient for the long-term sustainability of the institution and for
enhancing access to credit over time. For these reasons, the institution building plan has as one
of its objectives savings mobilization, and a limit is set on the amount of financing available from
the Bank in order to encourage PBDAC's efforts to attract customer deposits.
7    For example, Bank Rakyat Indonesia 1984-1987.



Page 14                              Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Project Appraisal Document
Experience in Egypt and elsewhere has shown that significant losses may occur - to either end-
borrowers or to financial institutions - where term lending institutions take on foreign exchange
risks without adequate risk management mechanisms. Given recent volatility in developing
country exchange rates, it would be unwise for PBDAC - with limited experience in foreign
exchange dealings - to take on the risk of currency movements. Several mechanisms for
managing this risk were discussed during project preparation; it was agreed that, on an
exceptional basis, the GOE would bear the foreign exchange risk of the Bank loan and the IDA
credit, charging PBDAC a fee based on the difference between the rate on the Bank loan and the
average publicly-quoted interest rate by any two of the four state-owned commercial banks in
Egypt on six-month customer deposits.8
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
GOE, through the Minister of Agriculture (who is also the Deputy Prime Minister), and
PBDAC's senior management have repeatedly stressed the importance that they attach to this
project, which they regard as critical to promoting private-sector-led growth in agriculture and
the rural sectors. GOE has further demonstrated this commitment by its readiness to cover the
foreign exchange risk on the Bank Loan and the IDA Credit, at a time when its stated general
policy is to let the borrowing agencies take the foreign exchange risk associated with Bank
Group lending. Nevertheless, it is must be recognized that the institution building plan envisaged
under the project is an extremely challenging one. It is designed to bring about a major change in
the nature of PBDAC and in the way it conducts its business. Its implementation may affect
certain groups that have interest in the status quo and who may therefore try to delay any
changes. Even with full commitment of all interested parties, the changes necessary will take
time and perseverance to implement successfully. Earlier efforts, launched with the assistance of
USAID and the Bank, have failed. The risk is very high that GOE's and/or PBDAC's interest in
persisting with the reforms mnay wilt. For this reason the Bank has sought and obtained a
reaffirmation of the GOE's and PBDAC's commitment to the overall objectives of the Project
and to the full implementation of the reform program it supports. Furthermore, the project
design envisaged includes time-phased conmmitment of the line of credit that is linked to, and
conditioned on, effective implementation of the agreed institution building plan.
S. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value added by the World Bank in this project derives from: (i) the Bank's experience in
designing and implementing programs to strengthen financial institutions, including rural credit
institutions; and (ii) its ability to provide long-term funds to support increased lending. Despite
recent improvements in the financial sector in Egypt in recent years, there is still a dearth of
long-term investment funds, and the project would therefore help address this particular market
failure.
8    This rate would be adjusted upwards to reflect fully any increase in the present reserve ratio required
by the CBE applicable on the deposits of the commercial banks (currently 15 percent).



Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project                   Page 15
Project Appraisal Document
E: Summary Project Analysis (Supported by Annex 8. Detailed assessments are in the
Project File).
1. Economic (supported by Annex 8).
Cost-Benefit Analysis: ERR= 39%; and FRR- 32%.
2. Financial (see Annex 8):
Financial analyses were carried out for three farmn models and seven agri-business models,
representing some of the most typical enterprises participating in the project as final
sub-borrowers. The individual Financial Rates of Return (FRR) estimated for these models
ranged from 21% to 43%. The conclusion was that all sub-projects similar to the ones analyzed,
for which ex-ante sound financial rates of return could be estimated, should be considered viable
rural enterprises and eligible for support from the project. (See Annex 8).
3. Fiscal Impact.
No Government counterpart funding is required for this project. Cash flow to the Government
would result from: (i) a guarantee fee to the Government from PBDAC of 0.125 percent of the
disbursed amount, estimated to generate some LE 4 million for the budget during the project
implementation period between year 2000 and 2005; (ii) a foreign exchange risk fee (variable)
estimated to generate income of approximately LE 118 million over the same period; (iii) taxes
on sub-project investments of approximately 20 percent. Base-case gross cash inflows for
Government, would be approximately LE 531 million over the project period. Assuming that the
Govermment will need to pay out approximately LE 6 million from years 1 to 6 to cover foreign
exchange fluctuations on interest, the net cash inflow to Government would range from
approximately LE 45 million (US$13 million) in year I to LE 125 million (US$ 32 million) in
year 5. At present interest rate differential of 2.5% between Egyptian domestic inflation and
international inflation (higher in Egypt) and assuming that constant purchasing power parity is
maintained the net present value of the Government's foreign exchange risk cover, calculated
over the next 25 years, is highly positive to the Government at current market rates at more than
LE 50 million (US$ 15 million).
4. Institutional.'
a. Executing agency: As detailed in Annex 5, PBDAC is in the process of transforming itself
from a multifarious arm of MALR into an autonomous and sustainable financial institution. The
organization unfortunately continues to have conflicting mandates and an internal structure
reflecting that. The organization suffers from surplus staff, and management and staff have not
yet internalized the characteristics of a market- and service-oriented financial institution. In
addition, although the institution has a highly decentralized structure, decision making in terms
of policies, procedures, and products is highly centralized. The most serious defect may be the
institution's inability to easily generate up-to-date financial information.
These issues are recognized and addressed in PBDAC's institution building plan, however, even
with management and staff commitment, it will be some time before the effects of the program
are felt.



Page 16                              Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Project Appraisal Document
b. Project management: The PMD, located within PBDAC's headquarters and responsible for all
aspects of project management, is an ongoing unit (currently managing the implementation of the
AMP) with staff famniliar with Bank-group requirements. However, under the proposed project
units will be established for each key project area (institution building; agricultural technology
dissemination; financial management; and monitoring and evaluation), with clear responsibilities
for all staff. Initial training in new Bank financial management and reporting requirements will
be provided for all staff. Clear terms of reference for each unit and job descriptions for each
staff will be prepared, and all staff will be hired prior to release of the first tranche of the line of
credit. A financial management procedures manual will set out the internal control system, as
well as all policies regarding the flow of funds and the coordination with the BDACs. Finally,
appropriate financial management software will be selected and installed for the PMD prior to
the release of the first tranche of the line of credit.
5. Social:
A Social Assessment was undertaken as part of the preparation of this project (see Project Files).
No adverse social impacts are expected to result from this project. The majority of PBDAC
clients are small landholders (58 percent own less than one feddan of land, while an additional
37 percent own between one and five feddans), and the proposed project does not anticipate any
changes in PBDAC's client structure. The proposed changes in interest rates - which will, over
the course of the project, be increased to market rates - will result in higher payments by
borrowers. However, interest rates will remain significantly lower than those in the informal
financial sector, and are a necessary condition for the long-tern sustainability of the bank. The
provision of long-term funds for onlending for productive rural and agricultural investments is
expected to have a long-term beneficial impact on rural incomes and employment, which is
associated with improvements in health, education, and life expectancy indicators and with a
reduction in rural-to-urban mnigration.
6. Environmental assessment.  Environmental Category [ A  [ B  [ C [x] Fl
The proposed project would have no significant environmental risks and falls under the Financial
Internediary (FI) category as stated in OP 4.01, for which an assessment of PBDAC capacity for
environmental review was undertaken. Under this Project, PBDAC will: (i) develop an
Environmental Impact Assessment Manual acceptable to the Bank, which will be incorporated
into the Operational Credit Manual for the Project. This Manual will establish and regulate the
Environmental Impact Assessment (ETA) process in accordance with the Egyptian Environmental
Affairs Agency (EEAA) regulations, World Bank OP 4.01, and the World Bank's Pollution
Prevention and Abatement Handbook, to identify potential impacts and undertake mitigation
measures to reduce such impacts; (ii) implement a practical monitoring program to determine the
effectiveness and timeliness of these interventions; and (iii) engage in capacity building and
training activities to improve environmental awareness among the project staff, counterpart
agencies and beneficiaries.
A set of transparent screening criteria will be applied by PBDAC in order to identify subprojects
with potentially significant environmental impacts. The screening criteria are based on type of
subprojects, EEAA guidelines, and current World Bank environmental safeguards. Also,
subproject financing will not be provided for purchase, storage, handling, processing, transport,
distribution or disposal of pesticides. In addition, financing of subprojects that include
refrigeration and cooling units is restricted to units utilizing non-ozone-depleting substances.
Environmental impact assessments will be required regardless of the loan amount for any of the
subproject types listed in Table I of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP), which is



Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project                  Page 17
Project Appraisal Document
included as Annex 7 of this document. The required procedures are identified for new
establishments and expansions according to subproject and size, as defined by EEAA in their
EIA guidelines.  These criteria dictate the type of documents that will be required:
Environmental Screening Form A; Environmental Screening Form B; Scoped EIA report, or Full
EIA report.
Sub-projects for which environmental impact assessment procedures are required as defined in
the EMP will require environmental review and clearance prior to PBDAC financing by the
appropriate Competent Administrative Authorities (CAAA). PBDAC's role would be to ensure
that the borrower complies with the environmental regulations and appropriate procedures. Any
subproject costing more than US$ 1 million will be required to be submitted to the World Bank
for review and approval prior to lending.
PBDAC will also implement an environmental performance-monitoring plan to ensure that three
key environmental safeguard provisions are adequately implemented and effective in reducing
environmental impacts as designed. These provisions include (i) the pre-approval EIA process,
(ii) the post-approval mitigation and EIA study and report, and (iii) the registration of PSDAP
subprojects by EEAA in its EIA register.
PBDAC will constitute and maintain a key permanent team in the Environmental Unit (full-time
Director and four environmental assistants) and appoint in each of the 3 branches and 17 regional
offices (BDACs) one technical staffperson who will be trained to become the environmental
coordinator for that branch/office. In addition, the EEAA will delegate one of its staff full-time
to be seconded in PBDAC to assist the Environmental Specialist and ensure that EEAA
regulations are adequately incorporated into PSDAP activities.
In addition, as part of the institutional strengthening of its environmental function under the
Project, PBDAC will recruit one full-time environmental specialist, to be based at the central
Environmental Unit, to undertake the following activities: (i) oversee the development of
guidelines for screening and environmental impact assessment; (ii) supervise the preparation and
implementation of the Environmental Manual; (iii) coordinate activities of the PSDAP with the
EEAA, RBOs and Governorate EMUs; (iv) develop and manage the environmental training
program, and (v) implement the monitoring and supervision plans. In addition, the Project will
also finance short-term consultants for supporting other activities, e.g.: preparing the
Environmental Manual; conducting the training program; designing and implementing the
monitoring system; etc. The Project will also provide funds to hire consultants to work with
EEAA and CAAAs so that all required and submitted Environmental Screening Forms, scoped
EIAs, and full EIAs are turned around within a time frame set forth in the EEAA directives for
EIA preparation. Also, these consultants will support applicants and their agents in clarifying
EEAA regulations when necessary. Finally, PBDAC's key management and staff will need to go
through standardized training programs covering environmental assessment and regulatory
issues. The full Environmental Management Plan (EMP) with the estimated costs to be covered
by the Project, is included as Annex 7 of this document.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The project has been prepared in coordination with the management of PBDAC and with
relevant officials from MALR. The project incorporates many of the concerns expressed by



Page 18                               Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Project Appraisal Document
PBDAC management, while maintaining minimum standards of financial intermediary lending
and risk mitigation.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Preparation of the project did not include in-depth discussions with the ultimate beneficiaries of
the project - farmers and agricultural- and rural-based entrepreneurs, however, PBDAC and the
Bank have significant experience in the rural and agricultural sectors, and it was felt that the
overall needs of the end beneficiaries were consistent with those identified and taken into
consideration in earlier and similar projects. In addition, it was felt that due to the close contact
between PBDAC's Village Banks and their clients, PBDAC staff were in an acceptable position
to ensure that the project met the needs of the end borrowers. Finally, the social assessment of
PBDAC carried out during project preparation indicated that end-borrowers - particularly larger
borrowers - strongly support improvement in aspects of PBDAC's lending services, such as
generating loan information, automating reports, etc.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Ensuring the sustainability of PBDAC is what this project is all about. The reforms of the past
decade have changed dramatically the environment in which PBDAC operates. The private
sector is now dominant in many areas where previously PBDAC had a lucrative monopoly (e.g.,
in the supply of fertilizer etc.); as a result PBDAC has lost a significant amount of business and
revenues. In the face of these pressures PBDAC has been slow to adjust. The reasons are many,
but principally relate to the legacy of being a public institution that is regarded from both within
and without as a part of MALR. The result has been corporate stagnation, complete evaporation
of profitability, and a weak financial condition. Bank analysis of the Subsidy Dependence Index
(SDI) suggests that at present PBDAC is costing over US$165 mnillion annually to GOE in terms
of the implicit subsidies to keep it going (see Annex 5). Clearly this cannot be sustained. The
proposed project aims to help PBDAC become a financially sound bank that would be self
sustaining in the long term. In doing so PBDAC would become a sound and viable rural
financial internediary for the rural sector. It is recognized that this endeavor will take time, but
that it is possible. PBDAC does have intrinsic strengths on which it can build and opportunities
in its traditional market that it can exploit. These include a wide network of banking outlets
throughout Egypt and a well regarded familiarity with agriculture and the rural sector.
Nevertheless the risks that are associated with this venture are high, as shown below. The
proposed "tranching" approach recognizes this and would allow the Bank to pull back and limit
losses if the reform program is abandoned.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk Ratine          Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
1. PBDAC is not able to operate            S      GOE non-interference in the setting of lending
autonomously, particularly with regard to         policies has been discussed at length during
lending policies.                                 project preparation, and assurances have been
given that PBDAC management will be free to set
appropriate policies. This is reflected in loan
covenants and in GOE's letter of sector
development policy.



Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project                           Page 19
Project Appraisal Document
2. Corporate and legal set-up of PBDAC       S       The agreed action plan includes the carrying out
prevents development of efficient                    of a detailed review of the legal and corporate
management and operation of the bank on a            set-up of PBDAC and the preparation of
commercial basis.                                    proposals for change to allow the institution to
undertake the reforms set out in the strategy and
IBP. The review would be discussed before the
mid-term review; it is expected that GOE would
prepare and present and action plan for legal
restructuring as a condition for commitment of
the line of credit.
3. An independent, private-sector auditor   M        The recruitment process for an auditor has been
will not be hired to undertake a                     agreed upon and terms of reference for the
comprehensive, multi-year audit of PBDAC.            assignment are being prepared; signing of a
contract is a condition of release of the first
tranche of the line of credit.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
1. Demand for credit is insufficient to     M        Past growth in investment is expected to continue
absorb the availability of funds from the line       based on projected sector growth, indicating
of credit.                                           continued growth in demand for lending.
2. PBDAC fails to implement the agreed       S       Project supervision will include periodic review
institution building plan.                           of program implementation and needs and will
include any necessary adjustinents. Further,
conmmitment of the line of credit will be paced
with the effective implementation of the IBP as
determined on the basis of pre-agreed targets and
benchmarks.
Overall Risk Rating    S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
While there are no controversial aspects to the project per se, several conditions, particularly
those involving the pricing of loans, the auditing of the institution by independent private
auditors (the first time that PBDAC has agreed to this condition), and separation of commercial
and banking activities, may be seen by entrenched interests as impinging on the rights of the
institution. While the project team has tried to take these concerns into account, prudent project
design requires the achievement of minimum performance standards for the institution. If the
institution fails to reach these standards, its long-term viability would be endangered without
continuous budget transfers from the Government.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1.     Conditions Met Prior to Negotiations:
* Audit: Agreement that PBDAC will appoint an external auditor, on the basis of TORs
agreed with the Bank, to carry out an independent audit of PBDAC in accordance with
Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS) and to issue an opinion on the accounts.
The auditor will be selected on the basis of a competitive bidding process in compliance with
Bank guidelines.
* Project Implementation: Agreement on the hiring of a high-level team reporting to the
Chairman that would be responsible for the preparation and subsequent implementation and



Page 20                             Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Project Appraisal Document
follow-up of all activities under the Project, and, agreement on the hiring of an international
consulting firm to assist in the management and implementation of the institution building
activities, in particular, of activities identified in PBDAC's Institution Building Plan.
* Strategy Statement, Institutional Building Plan, and Business Plan: Completion of the
following documents that together set out the long-term strategy of PBDAC, its objectives,
principles of governance, and the program of action it plans to follow to achieve operational
efficiency and long-term financial sustainability: (i) Strategy Statement; (ii) time-phased
Institutional Building Plan (IBP); and (iii) three-year Business Plan and five-year financial
projections.
* Onlending Arrangements: Agreement by the Government and PBDAC on onlending
arrangements as follows: the full amount of the IDA Credit would be passed on to PBDAC
on the samne terms and conditions (i.e. applicable charges, maturity and repayment terms) as
applicable on the IDA Credit, except that the PBDAC would pay in addition to the GOE a
market premium (calculated in the same manner as on the IBRD Loan) for the coverage of
the foreign exchange risk, plus a guarantee fee of 0.125%.
2.   Conditions for Board Presentation.
* Letter of Development Policy from the Government to the Bank, setting out its support for
the Project, the Strategy Statement and objectives of PBDAC, and of the institutional reforms
it plans to undertake under the Project.
3.   Conditions for Loan/Credit Effectivenes:
*  PBDAC Charter: Enactment of modifications to its Charter, corresponding to Law 120,
defining PBDAC's specific status as a bank operating in accordance with all laws and
regulations governing commercial banks in Egypt.
* Project Implementation: Constitution of a team responsible for the implementation of the
project.
* Audit: Contract signed with independent external auditor, under Terms of Reference and
selection procedures acceptable to the Bank.
* Legal Framework Review: Hiring of legal consultants to review legal framework of
PBDAC, according to terms of reference and procurement procedures agreed with the Bank,
with an objective of achieving full operational independence.
* Treasury function: PBDAC will have established a Treasury Department and hired an
experienced Chief Financial Officer to run it.
* Credit function: Satisfactory implementation of actions identified in the IBP to improve the
credit operations of PBDAC.
* Planning, Human Resources, and Marketing functions: PBDAC will have strengthened
the Planning Departnent, Human Resources Department and Marketing Services Departrnent
in accordance with the IBP.
4.   Conditions for Release of the Second Tranche for the Line of Credit (Loan/Credit)
* Interest Rates: Adoption of the following interest rate policies:



Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project                           Page 21
Project Appraisal Document
A. The lowest interest rate applicable by PBDAC, together with the annualized equivalent
of any fees or service charges payable on the product for which that interest rate applies,
shall not be less than the equivalent of the average interest rate applicable paid on six
month customer deposits9 in local currency by any two of the four state-owned
commercial banks plus four percent; and
B. PBDAC's average weighted interest rate (using the latest CAA audited balance sheets
for determining the weights) on its risk bearing loan portfolio, excluding non-performing
loans, should be sufficient to cover PBDAC's total cost of its deposits and borrowings,
plus its operating and administrative costs including overhead and depreciation."'
*     Commercial/Non-Banking Activities: Accounting separation of income and expenses
of commercial/non-banking activities.
*     Audit: Compliance with agreed reporting requirements as defined according to the
agreed terms of reference for the audit.
*     Legal Framework Review: Completion of review of PBDAC's legal framework and
proposals for legal changes.
*     Institution Building Plan and Business Plan: Satisfactory progress by PBDAC on the
Institution Building Plan and preparation of an annual updated Business Plan
S.    Conditions for Release of the Third Tranche for the Line of Credit (Loan/Credit)
-     Interest Rates: Continued compliance with arrangements for minimum interest rate
charged on loans defined for second Tranche. In addition, PBDAC's average weighted
interest rate (using the latest CAA audited balance sheets for the purpose of determining
the weights) on its risk bearing loan portfolio, excluding non-performing loans, shall be
sufficient to cover its total cost of deposits and borrowings, plus its operating and
administrative costs (including overhead and depreciation), plus provisions for loan losses
(calculated on the basis of CBE's guidelines), plus a return on its capital of 10% per
annum. 9
*     Audit: Compliance with agreed reporting requirements as defined according to the
agreed terms of reference for the audit.
*     Legal Framework Review: Government preparation of an action plan for legal
restructuring of PBDAC.
*     Achievement of Financial Performance Indicators:
A. Return on Total Assets of at least 1 percent;
B. Administrative Costs to Total Assets Ratio of no more than 5.0 percent;
C. Maintenance of Capital Adequacy Ratio of at least 12 percent;
9     Adjusted for any increase in the reserve ratio (presently 15 percent).
10    The following conditions apply for the above calculations: (i) the average weighted interest rate
would be the rate charged on the loan portfolio: crop loans, short-term loans, overdrafts, short-term
investment loans, medium and long-term loans; (ii) the risk-bearing portfolio would be the net loan
portfolio (excluding GOE dues); (iii) the average cost of borrowings would be the cost of: foreign
loans, local loans, commercial bank overdrafts, and deposits of NIB (or other banks); (iv) operating
expenses would include all staff and administrative expenses excluding general provisions and loan
loss provisions; and (v) earning assets for this purpose would be the net loan portfolio excluding
GOE dues.



Page 22                             Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Project Appraisal Document
D.  Full classification and provisioning according to CBE regulation.
*    Institution Building Plan and Business Plan: Satisfactory progress by PBDAC on the
Institution Building Plan and preparation of an updated Business Plan.
*    CommerciallNon-Banking Activities: Finalize an Action Plan satisfactory to the Bank,
for complete divestiture of all non-banking activities (trading activities) and associated
staff and assets.
6.   Ongoing Conditions and Covenants
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, PBDAC shall:
*  conduct its business efficiently and soundly in accordance with sound banking principles and
consistent with the guidelines set out in its Strategy Statement, Institution Building Plan and
Business Plan.
* maintain independent external auditors (in addition to the Central Auditing Agency-CAA),
under TORs agreed with the Bank, to carry out an independent audit of PBDAC in
accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS) and to issue an opinion on
the accounts.
*  ensure its compliance with all the relevant prudential requirements of the Central Bank of
Egypt, and in particular those with respect to its net open foreign exchange position, capital
adequacy and loan provisioning.
In addition, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, PBDAC shall not:
*  allow its interbank borrowings (of a maturity of less than 360 days) to exceed 8 percent of its
total liabilities;
*  allow its Capital Adequacy Ratio fall below 10 percent.
*  allow its general provisions for loan losses to fall below 5 percent of its risk portfolio.
*  distribute any dividends if its loan loss provisions fall short of the normal prudential
requirements of the CBE and calculated according to its guidelines.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[ ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[1 ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]



Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project                           Page 23
Project Appraisal Document
Task Team Leader: Guzman P.   Vic             ctor Agius
Sector Director: Doris Koehn
Country Director: Khalid Ikram
I- kl42/riS-AA



Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                   Page 1
Annex 1
Egypt: Private Sector and Agriculture Development Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and        Critical Assumnptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                         (Goal to Bank
Mission)
1. Growth with emnployment;  No indicators specified in  GOE statistics; World
CAS.                        Bank and IMF economic
monitoring
2. Promote private-sector led  Maintenance of non-oil
growth.                     merchandise exports above
10 percent of total exports.
Project Development                                                              (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
1. Increased income and     1.1 Number of jobs created    Project monitoring;    Continued Government
employment in rural Egypt.   as a result of the project;  PBDAC management      implementation of the
reports.                 economic reform
1.2 Increased lending to and                        program, including, inter
savings mobilization from the                        alia, liberalization of
rural and/or agricultural                            markets, easing of import
private sector;                                     restrictions, and
facilitation of exporting.
1.3 Net increase inthe
number of borrowers.                                 Egypt does not
experience a systematic
2. Strengthened financial and  2.1 Implementation by    Project monitoring;      financial sector crisis or
institutional viability of  PBDAC of the institution    PBDAC management and  currency devaluation.
PBDAC                       building plan;              financial reports; external
auditing reports.
2.2 Inproved financial
indicators, including
*  ROA of at least 1 percent
*  Administrative Costs /
Assets of no more than
5.0 percent
  Capital Adequacy ratio
of at least 12 percent
*  Full classification and
provisioning according
to CBE regulation; and
  other operating,
profitability, and
liquidity ratios.
Outputs:                                                                         (Outputs to Objective)
1. New investment lending    1.1 Net growth in lending  Project monitoring;      1. Credit is on-lent to



Page 2                                                    Annex 1: Project Design Summary
to private-sector rural and  portfolio.                PBDAC management and  economically viable
agricultural borrowers.                                financial reports; external  enterprises and
auditing reports        agricultural producers
for productive
2. Institution Building                                                         investmnents.
2. 1. Improved staff capacity   2.1 Completed upgrading of                      2.1 PBDAC operates
for lending and borrower   credit manual; environmental                         autonomously and is able
assessment and loan and    assessment manual;                                  to take and implement
portfolio management       completed staff training in                          decisions regarding
credit assessment; systems in                      lending policies without
place for loan supervision                          government intervention.
and follow-up.
2.2 Corporate and legal
2.2. Management            2.2.1 Satisfactory                                   set-up is not a constraint
Information Systerns (MIS) in  implementation of ongoing                        to development of
place                      contract for installation of                         efficient management
MIS hardware; study                                 and operation of PBDAC
completed for network-wide                          on a conmmercial basis.
MIS extension
2.3 PBDAC is able to
2.2.2 Regular, automatic                            use operating surpluses
output of management                               to increase its capital
information reports                                 base.
2.3. Accounting and auditing  2.3.1 Completed and                               2.4 There are no
systems in place           disseminated accounting                              constraints to the
manual; intemal control                             recruitrnent and hiring of
systems in place and                                an independent auditor.
operational;
2.3.2 Audited financial
statements according to IAS
by an independent, private-
sector auditor.
2.4. Staff trained programs in  2.4.1 Yearly preparation of
place                      skills gap analysis and
training program.
2.4.2 Number of staff trained;
percentage staff trained.
2.5 Strengthened business  2.5.1 Establishment of
development capacity       strategic business unit;
2.5.2 Information on new
business products and/or
areas distributed to relevant
staff.
Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each                              (Components to
components: (see Annex 2   component)                                           Outputs)
for project description)
1. Line of credit          1. US$ 270 million                                   1.1 Level of dernand for



Annex 1: Project Design Sunmmary                                                Page 3
credit is sufficient to
generate net increased
lending by PBDAC.
1.2 There are sufficient
sources of funds to
complement the World
Bank line of credit.
2. Institution building plan    2. US$ 30 million                              2. Institution building
plan remains relevant to
PBDACs needs.



Annex 2: Government of Egypt's Letter of Sector Development Policy          Page 1
Annex 2
Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Government of Egypt's Letter of Sector Development Policy
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
MINISTER'S OFFICE
Mr. Kemal Dervis,
Vice-President Middle East North Africa Region
World Bank
Dear Mr. Dervis:
Subject: Private Sector and Agricultural Development Project
The Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC) plays an essential
role in the Government's strategy to develop the agricultural sector in Egypt on the basis of
market-oriented principles. Following extensive consultations with the Government and the
World Bank, the Board of PBDAC has recently adopted a Strategy Statement and Institution
Building Plan, as well as an associated Business Plan, to guide the development of PBDAC into
a sound rural financial intermediary that is self-sustainable over the long term and able to provide
a full range of banking services throughout Egypt on a cost effective basis. I would like to
confirm that we are fully committed to the development of PBDAC along the terms outlined in
its Strategy Statement, and we will ensure that PBDAC is provided with all necessary managerial
and financial autonomy needed to carry out this program.
I would like to invite the World Bank to continue to participate with the Government in
supporting PBDAC's development program, and to assist in its implementation through the
provision of an IBRD Loan in the amount of $225 million and an IDA Credit in the amount of
$75 million equivalent. It has been decided that the IDA Credit should be on-lent to PBDAC on
terms comparable to the IDA Credit.
PBDAC and World Bank missions have developed a detailed Term Sheet which describes
the various aspects and understandings reached in conjunction with the proposed Loan and
Credit. I would like to highlight a few aspects of the understandings on which the Government
places particular importance:
1. Appointment of an independent extemal auditor to prepare an audit of PBDAC's during the
period of the project.
2. Establishment of clear and transparent financial benchmarks for monitoring the performance
of PBDAC.
3. Continuing dialogue between the Govermnent, PBDAC and the World Bank on further steps
needed to complete the transformation of PBDAC along the agreed lines.
Please accept my expression of the Government's continuing support for the close
cooperation of the World Bank in the development of the agriculture sector in Egypt.
Yours truly,
Dr. Youssef Wally
Deputy Prime Minister
Minister of Agriculture and Land Reclamation



Annex 3: InsDetailed Project Description                                     Page I
Annex 3
Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Detailed Project Description
Project Component 1: Line of Credit - Total cost: US$443.31 million; World Bank loan:
US$222.75 million; IDA credit: US$ 45.0 million equivalent
Sub-borrowers would be limited to private individuals and enterprises either engaged in or who
propose to engage in viable economic activities and who satisfy PBDAC's lending requirements
regarding income, collateral, and project viability. Financing under the loan would cover all
categories of agricultural and rural investment, including investment in such activities as
transportation, storage, and trading of agricultural inputs or products, irrigation investments,
small industry and commerce. Pennanent working capital related to investments would also be
eligible for funding when included as part of the costs of implementing the investment
sub-project. The negative list of item not eligible for financing include: (i) short-term seasonal
crop loans for less than one year; (ii) land acquisition; (iii) purchase, storage, processing,
transport, distribution or disposal of pesticides; and (iv) refrigeration and cooling units utilizing
ozone-depleting substances.
Subprojects would be appraised by PBDAC and its affiliates in accordance with PBDAC's
existing guidelines and would be limited to those appraised as financially viable - demonstrating
a rate of return of at least the cost of capital - and technically and environmentally sound.
Maximum sub-loan size would not exceed US$ 3.0 million to any sub-borrower or group of
related subborrowers. The first five subloans in excess of USD 0.05 million equivalent, and
subsequently all subloans in excess of USD 1.0 million equivalent, would require the Bank's
prior approval. A minimum equity contribution of 25 percent of the total subproject cost would
be required.
Project Component 2: Institutional Building - Total cost: US$33.5 million; IDA credit:
US$30.0 million equivalent
Subcomponent 2.1: Independent Audit of PBDAC - IDA credit: US$4.5 million equivalent
Auditing activities (US$4.5 million): Improved accounting and auditing is one of the primary
objectives of PBDAC's institution building plan, in particular, appointing an independent
auditing firm to review the compliance of PBDAC's financial statements with intemationally
accepted accounting and auditing standards. The final audit would enable the auditor to express
an opinion on the financial statements of each of the institutions and on the consolidated
financial statements of PBDAC. Such compliance will not only provide a basis for realistic
future assessments of PBDAC's financial situation, but will also make PBDAC a more credible
recipient of funds - both from the international donor community, and from commercial sources.
To support this objective, this subcomponent will therefore fund preparation and implementation
of a multi-year audit of PBDAC and its affiliates. Because of the size and complexity of the task,
and because no adequate audit has yet been undertaken according to IAS, the audit will need to



Page 2                                          Annex 3: Detailed Project Description
be a multi-year assignment, undertaken by a major international audit firm or firms. As a first
step toward the preparation of the audit, detailed and comprehensive TORs will be prepared.
The hiring of a suitable audit firm, under procedures acceptable to the Bank, is a condition of the
first disbursement of the line of credit.
Subcomponent 2.2: Operations and Management Assistance - IDA credit: US$9.6 million
equivalent
This sub-component would fund, over the life of the project, assistance to PBDAC staff and
management in improving overall operations, management, and financial management. The
overall objectives of the subcomponent have been identified over the course of the preparation of
the institution building plan and the business plan, and an outline plan of assistance prepared. It
has been agreed that the majority of the work under the subcomponent will be undertaken by an
internationally recruited consulting firm that will manage, in conjunction with the Chairman of
PBDAC, the planning unit, the PMD, and the relevant line units, the preparation and
implementation of policies, procedures, and manuals of various units, design and carry out
training programs for the various units, and conduct various studies. The tasks expected to be
performed under this subcomponent include:
Financial and Accounting Systems
Training of accounting, treasury, and inspection and control staff
Drafting ofpolicies, procedures, and manuals for relevant departments (including accounting manual)
Completion of inspection and control plan
Assistance to Planning Department
Preparation/Implementation of Strategic Plan and IBP and annual plans
TA to prepare network plan
Review of Bank Improvement Program
Review of strategy on New Lands
Training ofplanning staff
Assistance to Credit Function
Review of credit policies, procedures, and manuals
Review of credit function andfollow-up action for upgrading collection and recovery
Training on credit analysis, credit risk management, bad loan management, etc.
Personnel function and Staff Training
Review ofpersonnel policies and procedures (recruitment, remuneration, staff skills assessment)
Training of all staff in several key areas (e.g., customer relations, marketing ,etc)
Review of training plan
Commercial Activities Review and Spin-Off
Market study
Feasibility study for spin-off
Legal Reviews
Legal assistance toward changing legal status to reflect new strategies
Rural Banking study/market survey
Environmental Policy Development and Compliance
Subcomponent 2.3: Information technology - Total cost US$13.5 million; IDA credit:
US$11. 7 million equivalent
Funds under this subcomponent would be used toward the purchase of computer hardware and
software to improve accounting and financial reporting and to fully computerize PBDAC and its



Annex 3: Detailed Project Description                                     Page 3
affiliates, particularly the Village Banks. PBDAC is already undertaking significant investments
in computer hardware and software to improve management control and information through an
ongoing procurement contract that includes the introduction of the Integrated Banking
Information System (IBIS). IBIS will be implemented on a pilot basis over the next few years,
and then expanded to include all computerized PBDAC outlets. The current hardware and
software investment program is limited to PBDAC, the BDACs, and selected Village Banks. As
many as 800 Village Banks will remain to be computerized and integrated into the system. The
purchase of computer hardware and software to extend the system throughout the Village Banks
would be funded through this subcomponent. In addition, the subcomponent would fund
assistance in the preparation of an MIS (IBIS) implementation plan.
Procurement specifications will be prepared during project implementation. It is not expected
that the investmnents will be made prior to FY 2001.
Subcomponent 2.4: Agriculture Technology Dissemination and Promotion - IDA credit:
US$4 million equivalent
The objectives of the Agricultural Technology Dissemination and Promotion subcomponent
would be: (i) to communicate improved agricultural and agri-business technologies and to better
market PBDAC products and services to present and prospective clients; (ii) involve the private
sector, the Ministry of Agriculture and PBDAC staff in better meeting the needs of farmers and
small agriculture- and rural-based businesses in order to increase clients' income; (iii) identify
potential demand for PBDAC's products and services; and (iv) implement campaigns for
aggressively marketing of new products and services.
The subcomponent is envisaged to include the following kinds of activities:
*  events in the field to demonstrate new techniques and technologies;
*  communications of messages through the mass media;
  advice on group formation and management of farmer associations and societies; and
*  assistance with the preparation of project proposals.
Field events may include presentations at agricultural fairs, or even the promotion of fairs, at
which interested parties such as PBDAC, MALR, and the private sector would be able to show
what is available to improve farming or for setting up small businesses. At the same time,
PBDAC would make informnation available on banking services. Events held under the
subcomponent would be evaluated, and the results would be used to improve the impact of future
events. Radio and/or television promotion (such as MALR's Ser el-ard program) would be used
to complement such field events and to reach a broader audience. The subcomponent will,
however, be flexible in terms of its activities, and will therefore be adjusted in line depending on
client demand and the need of the BDACs at any particular point in time.
The subcomponent would be implemented by a small team of five professionals, who would
comprise an Agricultural Technical Unit (ATU) within the Project Management Department.
These would include one head of the unit, one agricultural engineer, one agri-business and food
processing engineer, one agricultural extension specialist, and one specialist on project
formulation and group lending. A technical advisory committee (TAC), chaired by the Chairman
of PBDAC, would be established to formulate the program, e.g., to discuss new directions in
agricultural research, production, and marketing, and to identify new areas for PBDAC' s lending
assistance. Members of the TAC would be nominated by the Chairman of PBDAC and would



Page 4                                           Annex 3: Detailed Project Description
include, as required, experts from the Ministry of Agriculture, Agricultural Extension Services,
Agricultural Research Council, Agricultural Mechanization Institute, Institute of Agricultural
Economics, Food Technology Institute, Ministry of Irrigation, Ministry of Environment,
Chambers of Commerce and private sector traders, manufacturers, and farmers. The TAC would
meet monthly or as required by the Chairman of PBDAC to advise on the agricultural technology
dissemination program and its activities.
The subcomponent would finance agricultural fairs, publicity campaigns, and other events under
this component. It would provide necessary outside expertise and technical assistance to define
and carry out the program and for staff training. The project would further provide office
equipment for project staff and vehicles, which would permit frequent visits to the field and
participation in subcomponent events. The total cost for the component is approximately LE 14
million (US$ 4 rnillion), not including PBDAC contributions toward staff salaries and
allowances and plus vehicle and office operating costs.
Subcomponent 2.5: Project Management Department - IDA credit: US$400 thousand
equivalent
This subcomponent would finance investment costs related to the upgrading of the PMD, i.e.,
investments in office technology and vehicles (the latter for the ATU). Operating costs - staff
salaries and benefits, general and vehicle operating costs, and travel allowances - will be paid by
PBDAC.



Annex 4: Detailed Project Description                                    Page 1
Annex 4
Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Detailed Project Costs
Table 1: Project Costs, by Fiscal Year (including contingencies)
Project Component                            FY00  FY01  FY02  FY03  FY04   Total
------ ----------------US$ million-----------------------
1. Line of Credit
1.1 Investment Subprojects                 84.86  86.91  89.03  91.23   91.28  443.31
Sub-total Line of Credit: 84.86  86.91  89.03  91.23   91.28  443.31
2. Institution Building
2.1 Audit                                   0.52   1.06   1.08   1.11    0.57    4.34
2.2 Operations and Management
o FinancialandAccountingSystems         0.82   1.08   0.66   0.36    0.19    3.11
o Assistance to Planning Department     0.45   0.34   0.13   0.10    0.04    1.05
o Assistance to Credit Function         0.25   0.51   0.01   0.01    0.01    0.79
o Personnel function and Staff Training  0.26   0.42   0.33   0.28    0.00    1.29
o Commercial Activities Review and Spin-Off 0.00   0.14   0.11   0.00    0.00    0.25
o Legal Reviews                         0.03   0.05   0.05   0.03    0.00    0.17
o Rural Banking study/market survey     0.00   0.11   0.11   0.00    0.00    0.21
o Environmental Policy Development      0.23   0.12   0.05   0.05    0.04    0.49
o Specialized Services/Technical Assistance   1.18   0.59   0.59   0.44    0.13    2.93
Sub-total Operations and Management 3.23   3.37   2.03   1.26    0.41   10.30
2.3 Information Technology
o Hardware                              9.10   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    9.10
o Software                              2.46   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    2.46
o MIS assistance                        0.51   0.64   0.44   0.33    0.00    1.92
Sub-total Information Technology: 12.07   0.64   0.44   0.33    0.00   13.48
2.4 Agriculture Technology Dissemination
o Dissemination and Market Promotion    0.23   0.39   0.80   0.81    0.84    3.07
o Specialized Services, Studies, and Training   0.15   0.31   0.16   0.16    0.17    0.95
Sub-total Agriculture Technology Dissemination  0.38   0.70   0.96   0.98    1.00    4.02
2.5 Project Management Unit
o Office Investment Costs                0.38   0.02   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.40
o Office Operating Costs                 0.12   0.13   0.13   0.13    0.14    0.65
o Staff costs                            0.05   0.06   0.06   0.07    0.07    0.31
Sub-total Project Management Unit 0.56   0.21   0.19   0.20    0.20    1.36
Sub-total Institution Building: 16.75   5.98   4.70   3.88    2.19   33.50
3. Front-end Fee:                             2.25   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    2.25
TOTAL: 103.86  92.89  93.73  95.11   93.47  479.06



Page 2                                                Annex 4: Detailed Project Costs
Table 2: Project Costs, by Local and Foreign Components (including contingencies)
Project Component                              Foreign  Local Currency   Total
Currency   (incl. Taxes)
------------------US$ million------------
1. Line of Credit
1.1 Investment Subprojects                    244.17       199.14       443.31
Sub-total Line of Credit:  244.17    199.14       443.31
2. Institution Building
2.1 Audit                                     2.17         2.17         4.34
2.2 Operations and Management
o Financial and Accounting Systems         1.38         1.74         3.11
o Assistance to Planning Department        0.32         0.73         1.05
o Assistance to Credit Function            0.38         0.41         0.79
o Personnel function and Staff Training    0.64         0.64         1.29
o Commercial Activities Review and Spin-Off   0.12      0.12         0.25
o Legal Reviews                            0.09         0.09         0.17
o Rural Banking study/market survey        0.11         0.11         0.21
o Environmental Policy Development         0.21         0.28         0.49
o Specialized Services/Technical Assistance  2.23       0.71         2.93
Sub-total Operations and Management   5.47        4.82        10.30
2.3 Information Technology
o Hardware                                 5.45         3.64         9.10
o Software                                 1.47         0.99         2.46
o MIS assistance                           1.59         0.33         1.92
Sub-total Information Technology:   8.52       4.96        13.48
2.4 Agriculture Technology Dissemination
o Dissemination and Market Promotion       0.00         3.07         3.07
o Specialized Services, Studies, and Training    0.48   0.48         0.95
Sub-total Agriculture Technology Dissemination   0.48     3.54         4.02
2.5 ProjectManagement Unit
o Office Investment Costs                  0.27         0.13         0.40
o Office Operating Costs                   0.00         0.65         0.65
o Staff costs                              0.00         0.31         0.31
Sub-total Project Management Unit  0.27        1.09         1.36
Sub-total Institution Building:  16.91     16.59        33.50
3. Front-end Fee                                 2.25         0.00         2.25
TOTAL:  263.33         215.73       479.06



Annex 4: Detailed Project Costs                                           Page 3
Table 3: Project Financing
Project Component                            IBRD   IDA  PBDAC Sub-Borrowers Total
----------------------US$ million---------------------
1. Line of Credit
1.1 Investment Subprojects                 222.75  45.00  47.75      127.81     443.31
Sub-total Line of Credit: 222.75  45.00  47.75  127.81     443.31
2. Institution Building
2.1 Audit                                           4.34   0.00                  4.34
2.2 Operations and Management
o Financial and Accounting Systems              2.75   0.36                  3.11
o Assistance to Planning Department             0.85   0.20                  1.05
o Assistance to Credit Function                 0.76   0.03                  0.79
o Personnel function and Staff Training         1.29   0.00                  1.29
o Commercial Activities Review and Spin-Off     0.25   0.00                  0.25
o Legal Reviews                                 0.17   0.00                  0.17
o Rural Banking study/market survey             0.21   0.00                  0.21
o Environmental Policy Development              0.39   0.10                  0.49
o Specialized Services/Technical Assistance     2.93   0.00                  2.93
Sub-total Operations and Management       9.61   0.69                  10.30
2.3 Information Technology
o Hardware                                      7.71    1.39                 9.10
o Software                                      2.09   0.37                  2.46
o MIS assistance                                1.90   0.02                  1.92
Sub-total Information Technology:      11.70   1.78                 13.48
2.4 Agriculture Technology Dissemination
o Dissemination and Market Promotion            3.07   0.00                  3.07
o Specialized Services, Studies, and Training   0.95   0.00                  0.95
Sub-total Agriculture Technology Dissemination    4.02   0.00                   4.02
2.5 Project Management Unit
o Office Investment Costs                       0.33   0.07                  0.40
o Office Operating Costs                        0.00   0.65                   0.65
o Staff costs                                   0.00   0.31                   0.31
Sub-total Project Management Unit       0.33   1.04                  1.36
Sub-total Institution Building:    30.00   3.50                 33.50
3. Front-end Fee                              2.25   0.00   0.00                   2.25
TOTAL: 225.00  75.00  51.25       127.81     479.06



Annex 5: Institutional Analysis                                            Page 1
Annex 5
Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
The Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC)
Institutional Analysis
Background
The Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC) had its origins in the
Agricultural Credit Bank, which was created in 1931 to meet the credit needs of the agricultural
sector. The institution has been restructured several times since then. PBDAC' s corporate set-up
was most recently defined in Law 117 of 1976 that established PBDAC as a "General
Government Organization"' and transferred to it the assets and liabilities of the then "General
Organization of Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives", which was the holding of the
Development and Agricultural Credit Banks (BDACs). Each of these regionally based banks,
which had been established earlier under Law 105 of 1964, is incorporated as an independent
joint stock company and is treated as such for all legal and tax purposes. In the context of the
then highly controlled and centrally organized agricultural sector, Law 117 also extended the role
of PBDAC beyond credit activities to include implementing Government policies and programs
in a wide range of activities, including the import and distribution of farm inputs and the
collection of major crops. At the same time, PBDAC was required to comply with the country's
banking laws and with the normal prudential and supervisory guidelines of the Central Bank of
Egypt, although, as a specialized lending institution it is exempt from certain requirements to
which commercial banks are subject such as the requirement of an independent audit, on-site
inspections and reserve requirements (since PBDAC is not allowed to operate personal checking
accounts).
Corporate Governance
As a General Government Organization falling under the purview of the Ministry of
Agriculture, PBDAC is controlled by a 23-member Board of Directors (including the Chairman)
that is appointed by the Minister of Agriculture. The Chairman is appointed by the Minister of
Agriculture for a term of three years. The present Chairman, Dr. Hassan Khedr, has been in
office since 1993.  The present Board includes representatives from  the Ministries of
Agriculture, Finance, Economy, Supply and Trade, Local and Government Planning, the Central
Bank of Egypt (CBE) and eight chairmen of BDACs. The Minister of Agriculture plays a strong
role and has the authority to object to Board decisions within seven days of their issuance.
However, this veto power is not generally used, since there is usually an emphasis on reaching
early consensus on major decisions. The Board meets at least once every month. The Vice-
Chairmen and sector heads of PBDAC attend the Board meetings as observers. While the Board
has acted independently from Government to protect the PBDAC's interests2, the proposed
review of the corporate set-up will also examine the establishment of a smaller Board that
Under this form of organization PBDAC's assets are deemed to be "owned by the State in private
ownership".
2    For example to pursue the recovery of dues from the Ministry of Finance.



Page 2                                                 Annex 5: Institutional Analysis
includes independent (i.e. no Government) professionals. Such a Board would be more
strategically focussed and vested with the usual powers envisaged under company law.
Each of the BDACs is headed by a Chairman and a Board of Directors that are appointed by the
Chairman of PBDAC in consultation with the Minister of Agriculture. There is no fixed tenure
for the BDAC Chairmnen and some have been changed on an annual basis. There is little policy
decision-making authority delegated down to the BDAC level. The maximum loan size that can
be decided at the BDAC level is LE 5 million (US$ 1.47 million).3
The heterogeneous nature of PBDAC's corporate set-up, and the often unclear implications of
the various laws incumbent on it (most of which were promulgated at time when central planning
and control was the prevailing economic philosophy), as well as the relatively weak, non-
business-oriented corporate governance arrangements, form a poor basis for developing a robust
and autonomous financial institution operating in the context of a competitive open market
economy. Specifically, it would be important to set up the PBDAC as a business oriented
corporation with appropriate governance arrangements and more transparent financial reporting
and audit as with the other banks now operating in Egypt.4 It was therefore agreed during project
prepaiation that the GOE and PBDAC would undertake an in-depth review of the corporate and
legal set-up over the next two years with the object of developing concrete proposals for
modernizing the legal foundation of PBDAC in order to bring it into line with the stated
objectives of turning it into a sound, autonomous bank for agriculture and other economic
activities in rural areas. It is expected that these recommendations would be discussed with the
Bank and interested parties in Egypt before being implemented. Specifically, this review would
cover: (i) clearly defining PBDAC's specific status as a bank operating in accordance with all
laws and regulations governing all commercial banks in Egypt; (ii) the introduction of more
flexible personnel policies and procedures, in particular with respect to recruitment,
remuneration, and staff rationalization; (iii) establishment of a clear legal basis for the financial
consolidation of the PBDAC group and the right to retain net profits and decide on their
distribution.
Organization and Management
The PBDAC system comprises the Head Office in Cairo and three PBDAC branches (in Cairo,
Alexandria and Gaza). It also is the holding for the BDACs. These regional development banks
operate through a network of 168 branches, 990 village banks (in effect sub-branches) and 634
retail units/outlets (mandubiyas). A total of 29,637 staff work for PBDAC, the BDACs, and the
branches/sub-branches (or village banks). The organizational structure of PBDAC is attached as
an appendix to this annex. It consists of the Chairman (CEO), three Vice-Chairmen and nine
sector managers who report to the Vice-Chairmen.  The Sector Managers have limited
jurisdictional responsibilities which are mainly confined to the activities of PBDAC (including
its three branches). They also offer assistance to the BDACs (e.g., in project evaluation,
accounting procedures, etc.) but only upon request. To a large extent their functions today have
become largely administrative. The Chairmen of the BDACs report directly to the Chairman of
PBDAC. Meetings of the BDAC chairmen are held monthly. Recently the Internal Inspection
3    Current exchange rate is US$1 = LE3.4.
4    For example, important anachronisms of the present set-up are that there are no audited consolidated
accounts for the whole group, and that in principle PBDAC itself (which accounts for about one-
third of the Group's assets) does not have any capital since the capital is deployed at BDAC level.



Annex 5: Institutional Analysis                                             Page 3
and Supervision department5, including that for the BDACs, was centralized within PBDAC,
with staff drawn from the BDACs. The department reports directly to the Chairman of PBDAC.
All loan follow-up activity is delegated to the BDAC level, and there is no centralized PBDAC
monitoring in this critical area.
The BDACs operate through a network of branches, sub-branches (also referred as Village
Banks) and retail outlets. Each branch has jurisdiction over a cluster of sub-branches. The
administrative set-up of a branch consists of three main departments: production and storage,6
credit and development, and accounts and establishment. The branches are responsible for
consolidating data and the trial balances received from the sub-branches for onward transmission
to the BDACs. Branch managers are vested with loan delegation authority of LE 200,000 to LE
300,000 (equivalent to US$58,000 to US$88,000) depending on their size. Branches in some
areas also act as independent banking units (accepting deposits and disbursing loans) and report
to the BDAC.
The managers of sub-branches are responsible for the budget/targets of their units, but sub-
branches are not profit centers. They report to the nearest branch in the area. They perform
banking as well as non-banking activities (including crop marketing and storage and distribution
of fertilizer). They also have limited credit approval authority (up to about US$29,000
equivalent). Many sub branches have retail units consisting of two to three employees who
perform storage and loan and deposit collection activities. The transactions are booked in the
sub branch. There are at present 634 banking units functioning in the interior rural areas.
PBDAC recognizes that the present set-up needs to be revised to enable more streamlined
management, strengthen accountability and have better uniformity in the application of policies
and procedures as well as to improve financial controls and accounting. For this reason
PBDAC's Board recently approved a plan to consolidate the system into PBDAC and eight
regional banks through the merger of a number of the BDACs. It became apparent however
during project preparation that this reorganization should also be reinforced with measures to
facilitate the introduction of a more commercial and client oriented culture. Specifically
measures in the following areas were agreed:
* Strengthening the Planning Function:
* Redefining the credit function;
* Strengthening the Inspection and Control Functions;
* Upgrading human resources management;
* Strengthening the Treasury Function;
* Separation of Non-Commercial activities;
Concrete measures in each of these areas are envisaged in the proposed business plan and IBP
(See documents in the Project Files).
Human Resources and Training
Partly as a result of the transfer to PBDAC of the extension staff of the agricultural cooperatives
and MALR, PBDAC has inherited a large number of low-skilled staff with the life-time job
security associated with a government agency in a planned economy. Out of the total staff of
29,637 (as of October, 1998), 20 percent are university graduates, 56 percent are high school or
5    This department is responsible for making inquiries and looking into serious complaints.
6    This related to physical goods activities.



Page 4                                                 Annex 5: Institutional Analysis
vocational school graduates, and the remaining 24 percent have completed 12 years of
compulsory education. PBDAC does not have an independent Human Resources Division,
however, there is an administrative department under the Financial and Accounting Sector.
Although technical assistance was provided under USAID's Agricultural Production and Credit
Project (APCP) to prepare a plan and put in place a human resources management policy, this
was not effectively implemented. Partial success at staff reduction has been achieved through
PBDAC's early retirement program, which was introduced in 1993 and has been supported by
USAID grants. Over the last five years 2,720 staff have opted for early retirement, but this is
well below the anticipated target of 10,000 staff.
Despite overall overstaffing, particularly at HQ and in administrative functions, there is a
shortage of qualified operating staff at branch and sub-branch level. Moreover, despite some
revision over the last few years, the incentive system remains complex and not adequately
results-oriented, with the result being that even continuously poor-performing BDAC staff (e.g.,
Sohag and Ismailia) are awarded bonuses. For these reasons an overhaul of the human resource
function is a priority in the IBP. Of particular importance will be further staff rationalization and
redeployment, the introduction of job descriptions, and better performance evaluation systems
and improvements in the incentive system.
PBDAC has a Training Department located at headquarters. It is headed by a General manager,
who reports to a Sector Manager in charge of Planning, Training, and Organizational Structure.
The Training Department has a full-time staff of 65, of which 45 are university graduates. The
faculty includes staff, professors from local universities, and other experts. Under technical
assistance funded by the Bank's AMP, nearly 23,000 employees were trained in areas that
included: rural banking, women in development, accounting, credit analysis, computers, and the
environment. During FY98, 1630 training programs and events were held covering 9257
employees, organized either by PBDAC itself or contracted out with universities or specialized
agencies (Cairo University, American University, Sadat Academy, etc.); in addition, 150 staff
went abroad for training with other rural banks (Indonesia, Philippines, Malaysia, Turkey, etc.) .
Accounting Systems, Management Information Systems (MIS), and Internal Controls
Accounting, Control and MIS: PBDAC's accounting, control, and management information
systems are weak. At the sub-branch (village bank) and branch level most accounts and MIS
systems are manual, with only partial computerization. Because of this, and the remote location
of many sub-branches (village banks) and branches that have no modem communication systems,
there are many delays in drawing up overall accounts at the supervising branch and BDAC level,
and consequently at the PBDAC level. Furthermore, the application of established procedures is
uneven across the bank, and the audit and internal control process is not sufficiently robust to
address these inconsistencies in a systematic and timely fashion. The CAA has routinely drawn
the attention of management to weak internal controls. Partly because of its hybrid set-up,
PBDAC does not prepare consolidated financial statements for the whole group (i.e. the 17
BDACs and the PBDAC itself). Consequently there are no overall audited consolidated accounts
(even by the Central Audit Agency). Management does prepare aggregated accounts, but the
process followed differs considerably from the process of consolidation, and the extent of
reconciliation of accounts is low. The introduction of a new Chart of Accounts, and new criteria
for loan classification and provisioning by the CBE in the last few years, has pushed PBDAC to
modernize its systems to conform to these requirements. But progress has been slow and uneven
and much still needs to be done to update systems to an acceptable level.



Annex 5: Institutional Analysis                                             Page 5
Internal Audit: The internal Audit and Inspection function has been recently centralized under a
Sector Manager who reports directly to the Chairman of PBDAC. The functions of the Sector do
not, however, cover the usual scope of internal audit in a bank; rather its function has been to
conduct random on-site inspections of sub-branches and branches within a relatively limited
scope focussed on the verification of cash, loan documentation, and some borrower visits. In
addition, the Sector responds to customer complaints. PBDAC needs to strengthen and upgrade
considerably its internal audit function to focus much more on material issues and the adequacy
of processes, controls and procedures, as well as on overall asset quality.
External Audit: The Central Audit Agency, the public auditor for all state bodies incorporated
under Law 144 as an independent authority reporting directly to the General Assembly, is
responsible for auditing the financial statements of PBDAC and (separately) of the BDACs. The
standards applied do not conform to International Accounting Standards or to GAAP. The
CAA's recent reports cover both minor and major issues affecting audit adjustments, without any
assessment of their materiality on the financial statements. Management letters are not issued,
and there is no assessment of risk management systems and procedures.
Program to strengthen the above functions: The accounting, control, MIS and audit functions
form the nervous system of a modern bank and are critical for the sound functioning of the
institution. The proposed Institution Building Plan therefore places immediate priority on
strengthening these functions. A detailed program has been developed and agreed with PBDAC.
This has two aims: First, to put in place systems, acceptable to the Bank, for the implementation
of the proposed Project; Second, to build up, over the Project timeframe, PBDAC's systems to
conform to international standards. This program encompasses (a). PBDAC, with Bank financial
management support, to put in place a sound financial management system for the purpose of the
proposed project; (b). PBDAC to engage an outside independent auditor of international repute,
for a period of at least four years, that would have the mandate to audit PBDAC's accounts with
the object of issuing an opinion at the end of the period. Given the situation, a modular approach
would be followed, with the initial focus being the condition of the loan portfolio and accounting
systems; (c). PBDAC to upgrade its accounting manual to include CBE guidelines and meet IAS
and to train all the relevant staff in these areas as appropriate, and also to strengthen its controls
systems and prepare a comprehensive manual thereon. Extensive staff training in this area is also
envisaged. PBDAC will need to engage an accounting consultancy firm to guide its endeavors in
these areas. It is expected that the independent auditor's work would provide the main directions
for the evolution of this work. Further details on the financial management and accounting-
strengthening plan are held on file.
Operations
The macro-economic and agricultural policy reforms begun in the late 1980s, designed to
liberalize the sector and move it onto a market basis, led to substantial changes the way that
PBDAC conducted business, principally by forcing it to lend more in cash than in kind and to
increase the rate of interest it charged. These reforms transformed PBDAC from an institution
with a heavy involvement in a wide variety of activities, which were lucrative in their own right,
to one with a much narrower specialized role in financial intermediation.
Lending Operations. It is estimated that PBDAC has supplied about 75 percent of the value of
formal agricultural loans in Egypt in recent years, with the commercial banks supplying the
balance. While the conmmercial banks have been steadily increasing their share from a very
narrow base, PBDAC enjoys the advantages of a dense network of outlets and proximity to



Page 6                                                   Annex 5: Institutional Analysis
farmers. PBDAC's lending operations have increased steadily over the past ten years in nominal
terms. Total loans almost quadrupled from LE 2287 million in 1988 to an estimated LE 9476
million at end-1998. Growth in real terms has been lower. Following a period of stagnation, total
loans in real terms increased by about 8 percent in 1995 and 1996. In 1997 growth increased by
about 23% in real terms (but it was mainly due to the reconfiguration of the loan portfolio to
include GOE's dues). The increase in 1998 was almost 7 percent in real terms.
The BDACs account for 86.8 percent of the total lending portfolio. The balance is accounted for
by PBDAC's three branches. PBDAC's loan portfolio consists of (i) seasonal (short-term) crop
loan, (ii) short-term investment loans (less than one year), and (iii) medium- and long-term
investment loans (between one and five years and over five years, respectively). As of June 30,
1998, 50 percent of the total loan portfolio was made up of short-term loans of durations of one
year or less. This includes crop loans which accounted for 18.2 percent of total loans. The other
half consisted of medium- and long-term loans granted for financing investment goods and such
activities as poultry, fisheries, cattle, agro-mechanization, irrigation, and land reclamation.
Despite the broad reforms in the agricultural sector, crop loan budgets (i.e., loan value to be
disbursed against selected crops) continue to be determined at the MALR level, and PBDAC has
little discretion in the matter. In December 1998, at GOE request, PBDAC raised the amount it
was ready to lend for crop loans from 70% to 100% of total requirements, thus considerably
increasing the risk profile of such loans.
Short-term investment loans are primarily farm-related and include animal production, poultry,
greenhouses and other small businesses. Animal production production-related loans constituted
48.4 percent of short-term investment loans as of June 30, 1998, followed by farm-related
business, 42.5 percent. The activities financed under medium-term loans are similar to those of
short-term investment loans. Animal production constituted 34.7 percent of the medium-term
loan portfolio, followed by 26.4 percent in farm-related business. Long-term investment loans
cover activities such as land reclamation, irrigation systems, horticulture, and agro-
mechanization. These are relatively small and comprise less than 2 percent of the overall loan
portfolio.
At present, the credit function is divided between two sector heads - one for crop loans and the
other for investment loans. There is no centralized follow-up, monitoring of the loan portfolio,
or adequate flow of information between the sectors. A comprehensive strengthening of the
credit function is envisaged under the IBP . This includes the merging of the two activities under
one sector head and the upgrading and strengthening of the recovery and follow-up department.
In addition, a unit will be established to monitor the credit quality (and help work out loans as
needed) of the 50 highest borrowers of each BDAC and the PBDAC branches, since, according
to a sample based loan portfolio review covering four BDACs, many large borrowers are in
arrears.
Conditions of Lending - Interest Rate Policy. Government direction has also extended to
PBDAC's interest rate policy, Following the deregulation of the financial sector in the early
nineties that curtailed PBDAC's access to concessionary lines of credit from other banks and
forced it to pay market rates for its funds, PBDAC moved its lending rates to market. However in
1996, Government (by Cabinet decision) mandated a reduction in PBDAC's interest rates by 3
percent across the board. Interest rates have been capped at 11 percent for short term loans
(further reduced to 10 percent for crop loans in December, 1998), 12 percent for medium term
loans, and at 13 percent for long term loans. To compensate partly for the shortfall in revenues
PBDAC has since introduced an additional service charge of 1.5 percent that is paid up-front (1



Annex 5: Institutional Analysis                                               Page 7
percent for crop loans). Despite these service charges, PBDAC's loan portfolio-related income
in 1998 amounted to just 11 percent of its average net loans outstanding. At these rates PBDAC
is registering losses on its lending activities.
It will be essential for PBDAC to address these pricing and credit management distortions if it is
to return to profitability. During project preparation understandings were reached on a phased
increase in interest rates, including in particular for crop loans, to cover fully the cost of funding,
provisions for loan losses, operating costs and allow a reasonable return on capital employed.
Non Lending Services. PBDAC continues to carry out non-banking commercial activities,
though on a reduced scale. It manages some 3.3 million square meters of storage space for
agricultural inputs all over the country, consisting of 545 storage areas, 303 covered sheds, and
574 close-in warehouses. PBDAC also rents storage space to private companies dealing with
agro-inputs, and to farmers for storage of seeds and harvest. It also stores wheat on behalf of
GOE's Wheat Storage Authority, and offers storage services to other public sector entities.
PBDAC remains involved in the distribution of inputs (in particular fertilizer and pesticides) and
cotton crop marketing. These tasks are undertaken either by giving advances to other public
sector companies or by acting as a consignor for private industry. This activity has been
declining in recent years. Past dues (principal amounts) from the GOE of LE 571 million
relating to non-banking activities are outstanding in PBDAC's books and are due to be repaid
over the next two fiscal years. As of June 30, 1998, PBDAC had a storage inventory of LE 178.0
million, of which 86.3 percent was made up of fertilizer stocks.7
Portfolio Quality and Provisioning
According to PBDAC's internal estimates, non-performing loans amount to LE 1,040 million,
which represents 10.9 percent of the total loan portfolio of about LE 10,404 million.8 The non-
revenue generating loans, mainly amounts owed by GOE and client loans rescheduled without
interest at the behest of the GOE, amount to LE 1,089 million and represent an additional 10.4
percent of the loan portfolio. The average loan collection ratios are estimated at 92 percent for
FY98 by PBDAC. The lowest collection ratios are in Ismailia (72 percent), Alexandria branch
(73 percent), followed by Aswan (81 percent). According to PBDAC, the performance of short-
term crop loans has been satisfactory. However, the performnance of investment loans has not
been up to expectations. The collection rate for short-term investment loans (45 percent of the
investment loan portfolio) is 94.2 percent, medium-term investment loans (52.5 percent of
investment loan portfolio) is 89.8 percent, and the remaining in long-term investrnent loans is
71.4 percent.
PBDAC's ability to expeditiously recover overdue loans through administrative attachment and
seizure is severely hampered through legislation passed in 1972. The legislation states that in
case of a dispute by the borrower over the amount to be recovered, or on the validity of the
procedure of attaching real property, this will suspend the recovery procedure of attachment and
sale until a final decision on the dispute is made. This has resulted in a deluge of cases filed by
7    PBDAC now handles about 5 percent of the fertilizer distribution activity, in order to meet the
demand in outlying areas.
8    lDue diligence carried out by the Project team indicates that non-performing loans are higher (at
about LE 1287 million, i.e. 13.5 percent of the total loan portfolio.



Page 8                                                   Annex 5: Institutional Analysis
borrowers to suspend the recovery procedure through frivolous suits disputing the amounts due.
This has resulted in: (a) PBDAC's being left at the mercy of protracted borrower litigation, (b)
weakening significantly its ability to promptly initiate recovery procedures/enforce loan contracts
in the normal course of its business, and (c) effecting adversely its liquidity position.
The PBDAC group is under-provisioned for loan losses and, less importantly, for obsolete
inventory. While income on non-performing loans is not always reserved, the level of the
provisions has depended on the availability of sufficient accounting profits. According to the
preliminary data prepared for CBE as of June 30, 1998, the level of provisions stood at, LE 533
million, indicating a shortfall of LE 324 million over the amount required to reflect the true
portfolio situation. If these provisions had been made, PBDAC would have posted an accounting
loss for the year of LE 264 million (about US$77.6 million).
Resource Mobilization: PBDAC responded well to the challenges faced by deregulation in the
area of resource mobilization. Its client deposits that had previously stagnated, grew at an
average of over 18 percent per annum from 1992 to 1997. Despite a slight fall (of about 1.5
percent in real terms) in 1998 this represents a considerable achievement and points to the
considerable potential of PBDAC's network to provide a range of banking services across rural
Egypt. Customer deposits today represent almost 57 percent of the total sources of funds of
PBDAC. Demand deposits constitute 69 percent of total deposits. PBDAC pays market rates of
interest on its deposits (see Table ).
PBDAC's other resources include (i) overdraft facilities from other domestic banks (7.2 percent
of total resources) as usual these are expensive resources (about 11%); (ii) deposits from the
National Investment Bank, at a concessional rate of 7.5 percent (6.3 percent); (iii) loans from the
World Bank Group and bilateral donors (8.3 percent); and (iv) equity capital (17.5 percent).
Most of PBDAC's resources are short term in nature, since the local capital market is still at an
early stage of development. The proposed Project would help PBDAC meet the growing demand
for medium- and long-tern investment loans without incurring the funding risk associated with
shorter-term borrowing. The weighted average cost of funds is provided in this annex (see Table
Financial Condition and Profltability9
The last ten years have seen a sea change in the environment in which PBDAC operates. The
liberalization of the agricultural sector, which led to the entry of private firms into the trade in
inputs and outputs that had hitherto been the preserve of PBDAC, drained away significant
business and led to surplus capacity (human and physical) in PBDAC that it has not been able to
address fully. Financial sector reform on the other hand, with deregulation of interest rates and
gradual demise of concessionary loan facilities increased the cost of resources to PBDAC. The
net result has been a gradual degradation in PBDAC's financial results and condition that was
aggravated in 1996 with the Government mandated reduction in interest rates. Although
PBDAC's capital adequacy is relatively high - it stands at an estimated 16 percent following the
9    In the absence of consolidated audited annual accounts the following analysis is based on the
aggregated accounts prepared by PBDAC's management on the basis of the accounts of the
individual BDACs (as per the audit of the CAA).



Annex 5: Institutional Analysis                                               Page 9
consolidation into capital in 1998 of the APCP grant funds that raised total book capital to LE
1,103 million - other indicators of financial condition show a fragile situation. The loan to
deposit ratio is high (182 percent, compared with 80.4 percent for all other banks in Egypt), even
if account is taken of the resources from long term lenders such as the Bank group. Over the past
couple of years PBDAC has had to borrow substantial amounts from other domestic banks (at
relatively high rates) to enable it to finance its lending operations. Its level of liquid assets
(below 1 percent of total) is exceedingly low.
PBDAC's profitability is weak, with a low and declining intermediation margin. In fact, net
interest income (as a percent of average total assets) amounted to only about 3.12 percent in 1997
and 3.46 percent in 1998. During those years operating expenses exceeded 5 percent of average
total assets."0 Non-recurring, irregular and declining other banking and non-banking income can
hardly balance the -2 percent margin, particularly when account is taken of the need to build up
adequate provisions. The nominal profits that PBDAC has been able to declare in recent years,
resulting from non-banking activities, has been paid to Government as taxes or dividends.
PBDAC's low level of profitability is related primarily to the tight control that Government has
put on its pricing, while forcing it at the same time to fund itself largely at market rates. In
addition PBDAC faces the need for significant structural reform to enable it to increase its
operating efficiency and competitiveness.. It will take time and a comprehensive change plan,
that is supported by all stakeholders - including the Government, PBDAC management and staff
- that is implemented with vigor and commitment to turn around the situation. Key in this plan
would be to clarify the primary role assigned to PBDAC. to allow it to set its own pricing, to set
it up as a corporation that has clear profit objectives and that can retain its profit after paying
normal company taxes, and the adoption by PBDAC of an institution building plan and business
plan designed to introduce the necessary internal changes. This is the main objective of the
proposed project..
Financial Projections and Prospects
In the context of preparation for the proposed Project, PBDAC, with the support of the GOE, has
agreed with the Bank on a comprehensive plan to help it stanch its operating losses and gradually
build up its capital base. The essential features of this plan include: (i) an increase in the overall
lending rates applied by the PBDAC (from the present 10 percent on crop loans to about 13
percent by the time of first disbursement, and on average weighted rates by about 2 percent from
present levels and subsequently such that PBDAC is eventually realizing a real return on its
capital); (ii) strengthening of its credit function to improve portfolio performance and boost
collections; (iii) a comprehensive institution building plan designed to help PBDAC lower its
operating costs and improve its ability to compete and thrive in the market, including through
increased savings mobilization. This plan also envisages the complete separation of non-banking
activities thus helping make more transparent the costs and income of the banking function; and
(iv) improved accounting and MIS, and a more robust audit process, designed to provide the
basis for better informed management. Improved audited accounts would also increase the
transparency of PBDAC's operations to all stakeholders, in particular the GOE and the CBE, as
well as to private lenders and depositors.
to   PBDAC's accounts do not permit an allocation of costs by product or activity. As a result there is no
disaggregation of costs on the basis of banking/non-banking activities.



Page 1O                                                Annex 5: Institutional Analysis
Financial projections (attached as TABLE ), based on these assumptions, and on realistic rates
of portfolio growth, show that PBDAC could return to real profits, over the period 2000 - 2004
as the program is implemented. Provided that inflation rates in Egypt remain at the levels of the
last couple of years or lower, it is expected that the PBDAC would retain a sound capital base
and would not need further equity to support its growth.  It is however recognized that the
situation depicted by these projections is fragile, and directly dependent on the implementation
of the agreed program. It is also clear that in the absence of the program, and of meaningful
changes in PBDAC's pricing policy and internal operating efficiencies, and without increased
direct and indirect subsidies from Government, that PBDAC will continue to make larger
operating losses that will slowly wipe out its capital.
Appendices



Annex 5: Institutional Analysis                                                   Page II
Table 1: BALANCE SHEET
Actual                                               Projected
1993     1994       1995      1996     1997      1998     1999      2000      2001      2Q02      2003
ASSETS
Cash                                      159       177       170       128        86       91       140       238       245       250       275
Short term investmnents                                                             0        0         0        30        30        30        30
Loans:
Performing loans                        3,566     3,974     4,726     5,503     6,932 _  6,695     7,272     7,907     8,606     9,376    10,224
Other loans ( soft and fixed revenue)     348       402       393       426       775    1,532     1,513     1,486     1,462     1,443      1,426
Non performing loans                      613       529       638       769       715    1,287     1,398     1,265     1,334     1,406      1,482
Loans outstanding                       4,527     4,905     5,757     6,698     8,422    9,514    10,183    10,659    11,403    12,226    13,132
Less provisions  ( )                      377       214       287       330       413      543       699       759       800       844       889
Less overdue interest (-    -363                                                           207      266        289       305       322       339
Net loans                               4,150     4,691 _  5,470      6,368     7,646   8,764      9,217     9,610    10,297    11,060    11,904
Financial investments                      44        46        47        50        50       49        55        85       105       110       120
Government receivables                    426       844       975     1,093     1,156     712        350         0     _  0          0         0
Account receivables                       712       852       508       328       188      508      496        426       450       489       441
Inventory     __345                                 283       187       354       381      178       135        85        41         0         0
Fixed assets                               97       111       178       228       247      231       275       300       325       350       375
TOTAL ASSETS                            5,933     7,004     7,535     8,549     9,754   10,533    10,668    10,774    11,493    12,289    13,145
LIABILITIES
Duetobanks                               1,107      945       548    _  40        815      856       854       366       428       576       655
Deposits fom banks(NIB)                       _          _              500       500      500       500       500       500       500       500
Deposits fromclients               _   2,292      2,949     3,519     4,259     4,922    5,215     5,583     5,983     6,417     6,889     7,401
Accounts Payable                         1,096    1,311     1,282     1,387       920    1,143       800       750       700       650       600
Long term local loans                      15        54        89       206       350      394       450       500       500       500       500
Longtermforeignloans                      450       517       579       584       533      707       730       950     1,150     1,290      1,515
Other provisions                           92        94        95        98        90       91       120       150       200       250       300
TOTAL LIABILITIES                       5,052     5,870     6,112     7,074     8,130    8,906     9,037     9,199     9,895    10,655    11,471
Capital _                                  62       269       289       289       289    1,103     1,376     1,376     1,376     1,376      1,376
Grants                                    589       630       897       946     1,088      274         0         0         0         0         0
Reserves                                  230       235       237       240       247      250       255       200       223       258       297
Shortfall provisions (CBE)                                                             ._.
TOTAL EQLTITY                             881     1,134     1,423     1,475     1,624    1,627     1,631     1,576     1,599     1,634     1,673
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES            5,933     7,004     7,535     8,549     9,754   10,533    10,668    10,774    11,493    12,289    13,145
(2 with revised_ovision  B         _          _                  



Page 12                                                       Annex 5: Institutional Analysis
Table 2: Ratio Analysis
_________   _________     Actual                                               Projected
1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998     1999      2000      2001      2002       2003
Liquidity                               10.1       11.7%     14.0%     15.4%      5.1%    4.6%       6.9%     14.8%     13.2%     11.8%     11.4%
Interbank/ total liabilities            21.9%     16.1%      9.0%      0.6%      10.0%    9.6%       9.5%      4.0%      4.3%      5.4%      5.7%
Interbank/deposit            _          48.3%/c    32.0%     15.6%     0.9%      16.6%    16.4%     15.3%      6.1%      6.7%      8.4%      8.8%
Loans/deposit                              2.0       1.7       1.6       1.6        1.7     1.8        1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8
Provisions/gross loans                   8.3%      4%        5.0%      4.9%       4.9%    5.7%       6.9%      7.1%      7.0%      6.9%      6.8%
Equity/total assets                     14.8%      16.2%     18.9%/a    17.3%    16.6%    15.4%/     15.3%/    14.6%   13.9%     13.3%     12.7%



Annex 5: Institutional Analysis                                                       Page 13
Table 3: Income Statement
LE Million                                        Actual                                                Projected
1993    1994      1995      1996     1997    1998       1999      2000       2001        2002       2003
INCOME
Interest on loans                             761      700      754       765      915    1,007      1,067      1,145       1,230      1,325       1,430
Interest on bank balances              _                                              0       25        30         30         35          35         40
Revenue on bonds                                                                                          I 1  2    2           3          4           5
Banak conmmission and service fees             39       37        49        24       63       71        77         84         91          99        108
Income from shares                              1        2         2                  1        5         2          3           4          4          4
income from foreign currency                                                          0       10         2          5          10         15         20
Income from marketing of Agr. products   _    147      116        90       138      122       55        42         26          13
Other income                           _       83       77        96        85       78       77        85         93         102        113        124
TOTAL INCOME                     ___1_  1,031          932       991     1,015   1,180    1,251      1,307      1,388      1,489       1,595      1,731
EXPENSES
Overdraft interest                            203      112        50        41       55       72        88         63         41          51         63
Interest on deposits                          216      291       374       382     438      442        501        534        569         608        650
Interest on long term loans                    30       36        26        38       59       70        67         78         93         104        117
Provisions loans (-)                           77       821       79        57       78       98       156         60         41          43         46
Other provisions                                                                     10       14        29         30         50          50         50
Salaries                                      271      288       311      331      367      388       407         428        449         472        495
Other administrative expenses                 105       44        71        75      121      106       113        119         127        136        146
TOTAL EXPENSES                                902      853       911       924    1,128    1,190     1,362      1,311       1,370      1,465       1,567
Profit before tax                             129       79        80        91       52       61       -55         77        118         130        165
Taxes                                          49       32        26        20       33       56                   54          83         91        115
Surplus available for distribution             80       47        54        71       19        5       -55         23         35          39         49
RATIOS
Interest eamed (% of average loans)                 14.8%     14.1%     12.3%    12.1%    11.2%     10.8%       11.0%      11.2%      11.2%       11.3%
Interest expenses (% of average resources)          10.5%      9.8%      8.9%     8.7%     7.9%      8.3%        8.2%       8.1%       8.1%        8.2%
Intermediation margin                                 4.3%     4.4%      3.4%     3.4%     3.3%      2.5%        2.8%       3.0%       3.1%        3.1%
Administrative costs (% of average otal assets       5.1%      5.3%      5.0%     5.3%     4.9%      4.9%        5.1%       5.2%        5.1%       5.0%
Administrative costs %ofnetinterest income         127.2%    125.7%    133.6%   134.4%   110.3%    118.1%      109.2%     102.5%      101.9%     100.2%
Non interest income (% total income)       26.2%    24.9%     23.9%     24.6%    22.5%    17.5%     16.0%       15.4%      15.0%       14.7%      15.1%
Profit before taxes (% total income)       12.5%      8.5%     8.1%      9.0%     4.4%     4.9%      -4.2%       5.6%       7.9%        8.2%       9.5%
Profit before taxes % average equi                   7.8%      6.3%      6.3%     3.4%     3.8%      -3.4%       4.8%       7.4%        8.0%      10.0%
Profit before taxes (% average total assets)          1.2%      1.1%      1.1%    0.6%     0.6%      -0.5%       0.7%       1.1%        1.1 %      1.3%



Annex 5: Institutional Analysis                                                   Page 14
Table 4: Funds Flow Statement
(LE millions)
Sources of funds                                 et__  Projeions   ___
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Net profit                                       -55      23       35      39      49
Add: depreciation                                185      90       91      93      96
Less: dividends
Cash profits retained  130      113     127     132    145
Repayment of loans
Short-term                                     6,370   6,891   7,466   8,101   8,803
Medium and long-term                            1,357   1,744   1,722   1,890   2,071
Total   7,727   8,636   9,188   9,991  10,874
Increase in deposits from clients
Current                                           16       16      16      17      17
Fixed time deposits                               88       93      98     104    110
CDs                                                1        1       1       1       1
Savings                                          261     287      315     347    382
Others                                             3       3        3       3       3
Total    368      400     434     472    513
Increase / (Decrease) in borrowings
Foreign loans                                     23     220      200     140    225
Local loans                                       56       50       0       0       0
Commercial banks                                  -2   -488        62     149      79
Deposit from bank(NIB)                             0        0       0       0       0
Total     77    -218      262     289    304
Capital crants                                  -274       0        0       0       0
Capital                                          278      -55      23      35      39
Other sources
Increase in provisions                           244      113     107     110    113
Decrease in accounts receivable                   12       70     -24     -39      48
Decrease in govemement receivable                362     350        0       0       0
Decrease in inventory                             43      50       44      41       0
Total    661      583     127     112    161
Total Sources                  8,968   9,458  10,161  11,031  12,036
Applications of funds                          Projections
1999    2000    2001    2002   2003
Loans disbursed
Short-term                                      6,777   7,331   7,943   8,618   9,365
Medium and long-term                            1,749   1,924   2,116   2,328   2,561
Total   8,526   9,255  10,059  10,946  11,926
Other applications
Decrease in accounts payable                     343       50      50      50      50
Increase / (decrease) in cash and due from banks  49       98       7       5      25
Increase in financial investments                  6       30      20       5      10
Purchase of fixed assets                          44      25       25      25      25
Total    442      203     102      85    110
Total applications               8,968   9,458  10,161  11,031  12,036



Annex 5: Institutional Analysis                                                        Page 15
Table 5: Assumptions for Projections
Loans                 1999          2000          2001          2002          2003
Rates of growth
.Crops loans                        3.5%          3.5%          3.5%          3.5%          3.5%
* short-term investmnent            12.0%         12.0%         12.0%         12.0%         12.0%
* Mediumn and long term             10.0%         10.0%         10.0%         10.0%         10.0%
Rates of interest (pa)
*Agricultural loans                 12.5%         12.5%         12.5%         12.5%         12.5%
* Short-term investment             13.5%         13.5%         13.5%         13.5%         13.5%
* Medium and long tern               14.0%        14.0%         14.0%         14.0%         14.0%
* Low revenue                       11.0%         11.0%         11.0%         11.0%         11.0%
Net performing loans
% of gross loans                     13.7%        11.9%         11.7%         11.5%         11.3%
Provisions of loans
% of loans outstanding              50.0%         60.0%         60.0%         60.0%         60.0%
Recovery rate
* Short term loans                    94%           94%           94%           94%           94%
* Medium and long term                78%           91%           81%           81%           81%
Deposits.
Rate of growth (p.a)
 Current account                    2.3%          2.3%          2.3%          2.3%          2.3%
* Timne deposits                     5._ _         5.8%          5.8%          5.8%          5.8%
* savings certificates                1._ _        1.0%          1.0%          1.0%          1.0%
* Passbook savings                   10.0%        10.0%         10.0%         10.0%         10.0%
* Other deposits                      1.0%         1.0%          1.0%          1.0%          1.0%
Rates of interest                     8.5%         8.5%          8.5%          8.5%          8.5%
Other interests expenses
* Foreign loans                      6.7%          6.7%          6.7%          6.7%          6.7%
* Local loans                        4.5%          4.5%          4.5%          4.5%          4.5%
* Overdraft account                               10.3%                       10.3%  10       .3%0/



Page 16                                                       Annex 5: Institutional Analysis
Table 6: PBDAC-distribution of network offices and staff as of October 1998.
BDACs        Branches      Village      Banking       Total       Total staff
banks       Units*      Network
1    Dhakaliya            11           88           3           102          2514
2    Sharkia              15           94           26          135          2402
3    Beheira              14           96           72          182          2645
4    Gharbiya             8            70           62          140           2006
5    Menoufia             9            50           51          110          2020
6    Menia                9            98           29          136          2244
7    Assuit               15           61           47          123           1826
8    Kafr El Sheikh       10           59           57          126           1681
9    Sohag                11           66           16           93           1728
10   Kena                 13           62           59          134           1627
11   Fayoum               5            41           12          58           1156
12   Kalubia              8            43           23          74            1173
13   Giza                 8            31           50          89           1064
14   Beni-suef            7            39           52          98           1186
15   Damnietta            5            19           25          49            482
16   Ismailia             8            20           13          41            621
17   Aswan                6            32           31          69            583
18   PBDAC:-_                                                                2679
_   Cairo                  2            1            1            4
Alexandria           4           20            5           29
Gaza                                                                     na
TOTAL               168          990          634         1792         29637
Banking units are part of a village bank (formerly mandubiyas) which offer banking services to clients
that include: accepting savings deposits, collection of loan repayments, and other services.
Table 7: CBE Lending and Discount Rates and Average Treasury Bill rates
June 1996    June 1997       June 1998
CBE Lending and Discount       13.5         12.25          12.25
rate                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
91 day T-bill rate            10.2           8.9             8.8
182 day T-bill rate           10.2           8.9            8.8
364 day T-bill rate                          10.0            8.0



Annex 5: Institutional Analysis                                                                 Page 17
Table 8: Annual Interest Rates of Banks in Egypt
.   ,                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~(%)
June 1996      June 1997         June 1998
3-month deposits                   10.2            9.9              9.0
One year or less loans             13.8            13.2             13.2
Source: Central Bank of Egypt.
1994           1995        1996       1997    Oct1998
Inflation rates (CPI)  1   8.2         15.7        7.2        4.6        3.3
Source: Intemational Financial Statistics Feb 1999 -IMF
(i)     Indicators of Bank performance in Egypt
All Banks             PBDAC
Sept 1998*           June 1998
Net Interest Income/Assets                     1.2                  0.42
Provisions/Assets                              7.6                  6.0
Non-interest Income/Assets                     1.6                   2.0
Loans Provisions/Loans                         10.2                 5.1
Equity Capital/Assets                          5.3                  15.8
Securities/Assets                              9.3
Deposits/Assets                               65.0                  56.1
Loans/Deposits                                 80.4                179.0
* During Jan/Sept. 1998.. Source: Central Bank of Egypt.
PBDAC data is provisional for FY98 (subject to change)
Table 9: PBDAC Lending rates.
Interest rates (average):             FY94           FY95        FY96        FY97        FY98         FY99*
A.Agriculturalproduction                  15           14          11        11+1         11+1         10+1
B. Investrnent loans:
(i) Short-term                            17           15          11        12+1       12+1.25       12+1.5
(ii) Medium termn                         17           16          12        13+1       13+1.25       13+1.5
(iii) Long-term                           17           16          13        13+1       13+1.25       13+1.5
C. Commercial loans                       18           15          12        12+1       12+1.25       12+1.5
Table 10: Interest rates on Deposits as on March 15, 1999
Conumercial Banks
PBDAC         National Bank      Misr Bank       Cairo Bank
One week and less than 15 days           2.0%              3.0%             2.0%            2.0%
15 days and less than one month           3.0%             3.0%             3.0%            3.0%
One month and less than 3 months           7.5%             7.0%             7.0%            7.0%
3 months and less than 6 months          9.25%              9.0%            9.0%            9.0%
6 months and less than one year          9.25%             9.0%             9.0%            9.0%
One year and less than two years          9.0%             9.0%             9.0%             8.5%
Two years and less than three years        8.75%             8.5%            8.75%            8.5%
Three years and less than five years       8.5%              7.5%            8.5%             8.5%
Five years and above                 7.5%             7.5%             7.5%            7.5%
Savings (pass book)                 9.87%            9.75%            10.0%            10.0%
3-year saving certificates             9.0%             8.5%             8.5%            8.0%
5-year saving certificates             9.0%             7.5%             7.5%            8.0%



Page 18                                                                Annex 5: Institutional Analysis
Table 11: PBDAC (consolidated) Classification of Loan Portfolio
for the year ending June 30, 1998.
(LE million)
Margin       Loan      Provisions     Provisions    Shortfall
Required    balances     Required        made
by
Central
Bank
1. Performing Loans:                          %
A. Loans                                       1           8,015            80             18          62
B. Contingent Liabilities                      I              18
Sub- Total                                                 8,033            80             18          62
2. Non-Performing Loans:
A. Sub-standard (more than 3 months)          20             242            48             13          35
B. Doubtful (more than 6 months)              50             259           130             46          84
C. Bad (more than I year)                     100            597           597           456          141
Sub- Total                                                 1,098           775            515         260
TOTAL                                                      9,131           855            533         322
Source: Accounts Division PBDAC.
Note: The classification prepared for CBE does not include non-revenue generating loans of LE 1,089 million outstanding in
the balance sheet as partial payments of principal amounts are being received. According to PBDAC, an amount of LE 384
million is outstanding in interest suspense account and after adjustments, LE 197 million can be utilized towards provisions,
thereby reducing the actual shortfall to LE 125 rnillion.
Table 12: PBDAC Weighted Average Cost of Funds with Sources
.(% per annum)
Sources                                       FY94        FY95          FY96         FY97         FY98
Deposits from individuals and organizations    10.4         9.7          9.4          8.8          8.3
Deposits from National Investment Bank                                   7.5          7.5          7.5
Overdraft from Commercial Banks                12.3        11.5         11.4          11.2        10.51
Retirement Fund                                15.0        14.0         13.8          13.2        12.2
Local loans                                                              5.3          5.3          5.0
Foreign loans                                  8.6          7.0          9.3          9.2          6.6
Total cost of deposits and borrowings         10.7          9.7          9.6          8.9          8.2
Total cost including equity and grants         9.7          8.9          8.8          7.3          6.8
Source: PBDAC Accounts Division.



Annex 5: Institutional Analysis                                                              Page 19
Table 13: Sources of Funds and Weighted Average Cost
As on June 30, 1998
(LE million)
Source                   %to total      Average        Interest paid    Annual rate
balances
OWN FUNDS:
Equity                                     13.8               1,102
Provisions for good loans                  0.3                  26
APCP grant                                 3.4                 273
a. Sub-total     17.5               1,401
1
OUTSIDE SOURCES:_
Local:
Deposits                                  56.6               4,524             377.7        8.3
Deposits from NIB                          6.3                 500              37.5       7.5
Overdrafts from commercial banks           7.2                 576              60.6       10.5
Retirement Fund                            1.2                  98              12.1       12.2
Local loans:
NIB loan                                   0.9                  70               4.2        6.0
Social Fund                                1.7                 137               6.8        5.0
Ministry of International Cooperation      0.3                  20               0.8        4.0
Foreign loans:
Intemational loans                         8.3                 616              43.6        6.6
Total outside sources 2                   82.5                6541             543.3        8.2
Total local and outside sources           100.0               7988             543.3        6.8
(1+2)
Source: PBDAC PMU
Table 14: PBDAC- Trend in Interest rates on Deposits
June      June      June       June       June    June 1998
1993      1994      1995       1996       1997
Term deposits:
Upto 7 days                                          2.0       2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0
7-15 days                                            3.0       3.0        3.0        3.0        3.0
15 days to I month                        12.0      10.0       8.5        8.5       8.0         7.5
Upto 3 months                             13.5      11.0       10.5      10.5       10.0       9.25
6 months-I year                           13.5      11.0       10.5      10.5       10.0       9.25
1 to 2 years                              14.0      11.0       10.0      10.0       9.5         9.0
2 to 3 years                              14.0      11.0       9.0        9.0        9.0       8.75
3 to 5 years                              14.0      11.0       9.0        9.0        8.5        8.5
5 to 7 years                              14.0      11.0       9.0        9.0        7.5        7.5
7 years and above                         14.0      10.5       8.5        8.5        7.5        7.5
3 year savings certificates               14.0      11.0       10.0       10.0       9.5        9.0
5 year savings certificates               14.0      11.0       10.0      10.0        9.5        9.0
b.  Pass book savings        13.5       12.0      12.0       11.5       11.0       9.87



Page 20                                                     Annex 5: Institutional Analysis
Table 15: PBDAC deposits as on June 30 1998
__                               _ __                                      (LE 000)
Current    Savings        Term         Savings       Other        Total
Accounts                 deposits     Certificates    Deposits    Deposits
BDACs           524,078   2,539,922     1,177,630        82,021     191,609    4,515,260
PBDAC branches  I  158,847       65,567       333,847        11,306     129,969      699,536
Total          682,925   2,605,489     1,511,477        93,327     321,578    5,214,796



Annex 5: Institutional Analysis                                                  Page 21
Table 16: List of Foreign Loans as of June 30, 1998
(LE 000)
Loan                     Loan        Local      Interest    Date of first   Date of last     Balance       Balance
Amount    currency       Rate       installment     installment     6/30/97       6/30/98
IBRD A  -Modernization Pro ect 3719       $54.0       183.9      9.485%       12/15/99        6/15/04            72,985       172,269
IBRD Second Agro-industry 2243            $12.9       43.9       11.97%        7/1/97          7/1/98             3,877          177
(prepaid)____ ____
IDA Agri-Modernization Project 2585     SDR 48.7      231.8      3.875%        9/1/04          3/1/29           116,328       175,467
IDA Technical Assistance 1162           SDR 0.24       1.9       0.750%        9/15/93        3/15/31             1,581         1,475
IDA East Delta 3002                     SDR 5.20                 0.875%
IDA Sohag Rural Development 3127         SDR 9.0                 0.750%
IFAD-Fayoum Agriculture Development 157    SDR 7.9    20.7        8.0%         6/30/90         10/1/97            1,515             1
IFAD-El Beheira 54                       SDR 2.5      10.2        7.0%         7/1/94          1/1/02             5,722         4,578
African Development Bank-Rural                                    4.0%         6/30/91         6/30/00            6,393         4,262
Development 5/81
IFAD-Agro services 306                  SDR 14.21     67.9        7.0%         7/1/93          7/1/06            18,385        23,663
IFAD Agricultural Intensification 355   SDR 5.97      20.4       3.75%         1/1/99          7/1/08            12,577        14,618
IFAD East Delta 440                       $10.3                  0.875%                        _
IFAD Sohag Rural Development 484        SDR 9.90                 0.750%
EU Credit line 107                      ECU 42.0      175.4       7.0%         1/1/07          1/1/37            16,832       163,425
EU Storage Construction Dhakalia Stage I  ECU 9.0     24.4        7.0%         5/15/95         2/1/23            20,780        19,306
EU Dhakalia Stage II                    ECU 4.0       19.2        7.0%         8/1/99          2/1/29            13,491        13,099
KfW First stage                         DM 12.0       24.9        9.0%         7/21/94          7/06             18,712        16,633
KfW Second stage                        DM 22.0       42.5       4.75%          /02             /14              17,269        43,740
KfW (commodity)                         DM 10.8       23.4        6.0%          /01             /38              23,401        23,401
African Development Fund 14/85             9.1                    7.1%         7/1/96          7/1/36            31,606        31,402
African Development Fund-Rural           SDR 2.9      21.2        4.0%         6/30/91        6/30/00             6,393         4,262
Development 5/81
Total                                                                                                           381,454       707,516
Denmark AID grant                                                                                                 1,190         1,190
TOTAL                                                                                                           382,644       707,706



Annex 5: Institutional Analysis                                                     Page 22
Table 17: PBDAC- Subsidy Dependence Index
PBDAC SDI Calculation
(LE million)
1994     1995      1996     1997      1998
1 Financial Cost of Mobilizing
and Servicing Deposits \a                   11.8%     10.9%    10.5%     9.8%      9.4%
2 Administrative Cost of Mobilizing
and Servicing Deposits                       3.0%     3.0%      3.0%     3.0%      3.0%
3 M: Market Reference Deposit Interest Rate      14.8%     13.9%    13.5%    12.8%      12.4%
4 K: OtherSubsidies                                   0        0         0       0          0
5 C: Avg Cost of Concessional Borrowed Funds \b   8.6%      7.0%     8.4%     7.9%       5.8%
6 A: Avg Concessional Borrowed Funds \c            518       620       729    1.087     1.492
7 Subsidy on Concessional Borrowed Funds             32       43        37      53         98
[(M - C) x A]
8 GD: Dues from GOE \d                            -656      -922   -1,053   -1,044       -833
9 NS: Total Negative Subsidy                      -97.1   -128.2   -142.2  -133.6    -103.3
(M*GD)
10 Accounting Cost of Capital                      0.0%     0.0%      0.0%    0.0%       0.0%
11 E: Avg Equity (adjusted with shortfall in        758     1 029    1,174    1.250      1,337
provisions)\e
12 Subsidy on Equity                                112      143       158      160       166
(M*E)
13 D: Avg Annual Deposit Level \f                 2,620    3,234    4,139   4,841        5,068
14 R: Reserve Requirement \g                      15.0%    15.0%     15.0%    15.0%     15.0%
15 Avg Annual Reserve Requirement Level (D x R)     393      485       621      726       760
16 T: Interest Rate Received on Reserves           0.0%     0.0%      0.0%    0.0%       0.0%
17 Subsidy from Reserve Exemption                   102       120      144      162       173
[((A + E + D) / (1 - R)) - (A + E + D)] x M
18 Total Subsidy                                    149       177      197      242       334
19 Profit/(Loss) \h                                -171      -170     -185    -248       -228
20 Net Subsidy (Total Subsidy - Profit or (Loss)    320       347      382      490       562
21 US Dollar equivalent Net subsidy (millions)        $         $        $        $         $
94.1    102.2    112.5   144.0       165.2
22 Interest Income on loans \i                      700       754      764      915      1,007
23 SDI (Net Subsidy/Interest Income)             45.7%    46.1%    50.1%   53.5%        55.8%
24 LP Average loan portfolio (net)                4,100    4,659      5,468    7,396     9,139
25 N: Current Avg On-Lending Rate (LP*interest    17.1%     16.2%    14.0%    12.4%     11.0%
income)
26 Inflation rate (CPI) \j                         8.2%    15.7%      7.2%     4.6%      3.3%
27 Current real average yield (adjusted for inflation)  8.2%  0.4%    6.3%     7.4%      7.5%
28 Increase in the Average Yield Rate Required on LP to
Eliminate the Need for Subsidy (SDI x N)       7.8%      7.5%     7.0%     6.6%       6.1%
29 Lowest Yield to be obtained on LP to achieve
Financial Self-Sufficiency                     24.9%    23.6%     21.0%    19.0%     17.2%
30 Real yield (adjusted for inflation)            15.4%     6.9%     12.8%    13.8%     13.4%



Annex 5: Institutional Analysis                                                    Page 23
Explanatory notes:
\a Based on Deposit rates for Egypt International Financial Statistics, February 1999. PBDAC's estimates
for the same period is: 11.5%, 10.1%, 9.2%, 8.8% and 8.3%
\b Estimated by PBDAC as the weighted average cost of outstanding concessional local loans and medium to
long-term loans. Includes cost of term deposit of LE 500 million from National Investment Bank (NIB) at
a concessional rate of 7.5%
\c Concessional borrowed funds represents the total of local loans (at concessional rates), term deposit from
NIB and all foreign loans Balances as on June 30, 1998 of: Local loans-LE 394 m, Foreign loans- LE
707m, and Term deposit of NIB- LESOOm
\d Government dues represent the principal amount owed to PBDAC for performing non-banking activities
on their behalf. The amount been declining as GOE has commenced repayment of principal amount in
installments The original claim amount was LE 1,131 million in 1996 and the balance of LE 559 m will be
repaid within two years in installments.
\e Equity is adjusted with the shortfall in provisions estimated by the Central Audit Agency (CAA)- details
mentioned elsewhere.
\f Deposits has been adjusted after excluding the NIB deposit of LE 500 million
\g PBDAC is not authorized to open current accounts in the names of individuals and as a result is exempted
from meeting reserve requirements of CBE.
\h Profit has been adjusted with the shortfall in loan loss provisions as follows: FY94-LE250 mn, FY95-LE
250 mn, FY96-LE 275 million(adhoc conservative estimates), FY97 - LE 300 million and FY98- LE 288
million(estimated by CAA) FY98 figures to be finalized.
\i Interest income may contain arrears on loans may contain an overstated element of interest accrued on
overdue loans not reversed to income after 91 days from date of maturity due to inconsistent accounting
practices.
\j Inflation rates are based on CPI data on Egypt published in IFS by IMF February 1999.



Annex 5: histitutional Analysis                                                                 Page 24
SENIOR STAFF
Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
Dr. Hassan Khedr
PBDAC Chairman
Mr. Mohamed Abdel Hamid                 Mr. Kamal Kederig                   Mr. Salama Ghobashy              Dr. Mohamed El Said
Vice Chairman                       Vice Chairman                        Vice Chairman                     Chairman & Board
Personal,Finangeal &             Credit,lnvestment,Planning, MgS,PBDAC Branches                                  Affairs
Administrative Services                 Plsamic  Organization Stgucture, Training  Commer&al,Production &
Banking                                                               Storage Affairs                Mr. Mahdn   Yoush
._   X          .                           ._                 |       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LegalAfar
Ms. Zeinab Abdel Rahman                  Mr. Adel El Meligi                 Ms. Laila Abd El Hady                Mr. Abdel Rahman
Sector Manager        _Sector Manager                      _Sector Manager                      _Soliman
Finance & Banking Servioes              Planning, Training &                        MIS                          BDAC Supervision
_                  ~~~~~~~Organizational Structure
|Mr. Ewida Fouad                                                               Mr.r Mhmd  sa    Hae Assor angr    |Mr. Ramadan Hawash |
Mr. Mohamed Osman                      Sector Manager                     General Manager
Sector Manager                        Sector Manager                   Commercial, Production &                   Se|uS i9
Accounting,Personal &              Development and Investment                 Storage Affairs
Administrative Affairs                      Credit
Mr. Ezzat Hassouna
-         ,                                           5  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~General Coordinator
Mr. Hussien Hamed                   Mrs. Ahlam Abu Zeid                    Mr. Adel El Sherif               GeneProjects
Sector Manager                       Sector Manager                       Sector Manager
Property Management and                  Production Credit                    PBDAC Branches
Engineering



Annex 5: histitutional Analysis                                                            Page 25
VICE CHAIRMAN DIVISION
Personnel,Financial and Administrative Services and Islamic Banking
Mr. Mohamed Abdel Hamid
VICE CHAIRMAN
Personnel,Financial & Administrative Services, Islamic Banking
F                         I                                  i                                         i- -
|  Ms Zeinab Abdel Rahman      _|       Eng. Hussien Hamed       _Mr. Ewida Fouad_l
SECTOR MANAGER                     SECTOR MANAGER                          SECTOR MANAGER               l      ISLAMIC BANKING
Financial and Banking Services   .     Property Management            Accounting, Personnel and Administrative       DEPARTMENT
and Engineering                               Services
Mr. Abdoula Taufik           Mrs. Nadia Hammad                   Mr. Said Imbaby             DEPARTMENT               Mr. Mohamed El Hadi
GENERAL MANAGER               GENERAL MANAGER                   GENERAL MANAGER                 MANAGER                GENERAL MANAGER
Foreign Finance                Local Finance                Accounting and Financial         Medical Care        Personnel and Administrative
.            l        |        ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~Affairs  llAffairsl
DEPARTMENT MANAGER            DEPARTMENT MANAGER |                                l
Foreign Loans and Grants          Local Loans           DEPARTMENT MANAGER Ld DEPARTMENT MANAGER |                 DEPARTMENT MANAGER
DEPARTMENT_MANAGERI             Bank Treasurer                Accounting                   Personnel
| DEPARTMENT MANAGER 1    |DEPARTMENT MANAGER |_l_l_l
Letters of Credit          Deposits and Savings     DEPARTMENT MANAGER          DEPARTMENT MANAGER            DEPARTMENT MANAGER
Risk Compensating Balance     Financial Reports                Procurement
DEPARTMENT MANAGERI                                   ____l_I_ i
XLarge Loan Risk EvaluationII
Large Loa Risk Evalua     DEPARTMENT MANAGER          DEPARTMENT MANAGER             DEPARTMENT MANAGER
Contracting               Auditing                    Bank Premises
DEPARTMENT MANAGER          DEPARTMENT MANAGER           DEPARTMENT MANAGER
|  Merchandising   C          Costing         |   | Bank Secretary and Recor
Archives



Page 26                                                           Annex 5: Institutional Analysis
VICE CHAIRMAN DIVISION
Credit, Investment ,Organizational Structure and Training
Mr. Kamal Keder
VICE CHAIRMAN
Credit,lnvestment,Planning,OrganizationaI Structure,& Training
|  Mr. Adel El Meligi                                                                          Mr. Mohamed O sman
| SECTOR MANAGER                                                                               SECTOR MANAGER
| Planning, Training &                                                                           Development and
Organizational Structure                                                                       Investment Credit*
|Mr. Kamal Abo El Makarm      Mrs. Nadia Amin       |Mr. Magdy Moustafa |Mr.Bahai Amin                                          ll     Mr. Faik Fouad    l
GENERAL MANAGER           GENERAL MANAGER          GENERAL MANAGER                               GENERAL MANAGER                  GENERAL MANAGER
Planning            Organization & Admin.          Training                                 Land Reclamation and                 Development
|                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~    ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~Agribusiness   l-I
DEPARTMENT MANAGER    DEPARTMENT MANAGER                                                           DEPARTMENT MANAGER             DEPARTMENT MANAGER
Organization Planning         Organization          DEPARTMENT MANAGER                               Land Reclamation                Food Security
-   Program Coordination
DEPARTMENT MANAGER    DEPARTMENT MANAGER                                                           DEPARTMENT MANAGER          |DEPARTMENT MANAGER
Budget Planning          Job Classification      DEPARTMENT MANAGER                                 Agribusiness                 Rular Development
l_ I                   I I                       I  |Planning & Monitoring
|DEPARTMENT MANAGER                                                                                                                      * lending other
Evaluation                                                                                          Project Evaluation           than crop lending
Department
||DEPARTMENT MANAGER
L1 Economic Researchl



Annex 5: Institutional Analysis                                                     Page 27
VICE CHAIRMAN DIVISION
Credit,investment,Planning,Organizational Structure & Traini
(Continued)
Mr. Kamal Keder
VICE CHAIRMAN
Mrs. Ahlam Abu Zeid
SECTOR MANAGER
Production Credit v
|Mr. Mahmoud Barakat lMr. Abdel Shafy                       |DEPARTMENT  AAE 
GENERAL MANAGER              GENERAL MANAGER l                   Credit Review
Agricultural Credit-up  Crt         andCollection
Quotas
**agricultural crop lending
DEPARTMENT MANAGER          DEPARTMENT MANAGER|
Crop Budgets and Credit  _        Collection    |
QuotasI
DEPARTMENT MANAGER
DEPARTMENT MANAGER                 Follow-up
Crop Lending



Page 28                                                       Annex 5: Institutional Analysis
VICE CHAIRMAN DIVISION
MIS,PBDAC Branches,Commercial,Production and Storage Affairs
Mr. Salama Ghobashy
VICE CHAIRMAN
MIS,PBDAC Branches, Commercial, Production and Storage Affairs
Mr. Adel El Sherif                                                         Mr. Hamid Assar
SECTOR MANAGER    lSECTOR MANAGERl
PBDAC  Branches                                               |Commercial,1Production and, Storage Affairsl
Mr. Esmail Sharawi        Mr. Khary Hafez     Dr. Mohamed Abdel Moze     Mr. Ibrahim Khlaf      Mr. Ahmed Al Kadi                Mr. Kamal Alban
GENERAL MANAGER         GENERAL MANAGER         GENERALMANAGER          GENERAL MANAGER        GENERAL MANAGER                 GENERAL MANAGER
Alex & Matrh Branches       Gaza Branch             Cairo Branch          Storage and Supply     Commercial Affairs               Production Inputs
DEPARTMENT MANAGER    DEPARTMENT MANAGER                                  DEPARTMENT MANAGER    DEPARTMENT MANAGER              DEPARTMENT MANAGER
Credit       l 1        Credit       | | |DEPARTMENT MANAGER           Crop Storage          Agric. Mechanization              Fertilizers
t             t n     ~~~~~~~Credit   ll- 
NAGER I  -                                                      - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT MANAGER
DEPARTMENT MANAGER   DEPARTMENT MANAGER                                   DEPARTMENT MANAGER    DEPARTMENT MANAGER                     Insecticide
Savings and Deposits    Savings and Deposits  DEPARTMENT MANAGER           Crop Maintenance          Agrc. Chemicals
l- l          --  - I   Savings and Deposits  }        _                l |                            |DEPARTMENT MANAGER
DEPARTMENT MANAGER    DEPARTMENT MANAGER                                          MENT MANAGER    DEPARTMENT MANAGER                     Seed
Management Services       Management Services   IDEPARTMENT MANAGER              JtBasDevelopment
Management Services                         J                                DEPARTMENT MANAGER
Animal Feed
Price Analysis
Department        DEPARTMENT MANAGER
Spare Parts and Pest Control
Equipment



Annex 5: histitutional Analysis                                                     Page 29
VICE CHAIRMAN DIVISION
MIS, PBDAC Branches ,Commercial, Production and Storage Affairs
(Continued)
|Mr. Salama Ghobashy
VICE CHAIRMAN          l
r  Ms. Laila Abd FL Hadi
SECTOR MANAGER
Management Informaton Systems
(MIS)
|Mr. Hamdy EGhayMs. Nabila El Shinavw| Mr. Mohamed Mosleh
GENERAL MANAGER                DAGENERAL MANAGER              DAGENERAL MANAGER
Documentation and  |Stabisfcs and    lComputer
Publication   lResearch                                     Equipment
| DEPARTMENT MANAGER |     | DEPARTMENT MANAGER |        [ DEPARTMENT MANAGER|
X   Documentation   I    I        Statisfics     |         Systems and ProgramsI
DEPARTMENT MANAGER |          DEPARTMENT MANAGER          DEPARTMENT MANAGER
_    Microfilm          _Operabons Research            _     Data Editing and
I         --                   ~~~~~~~~~~~Preparation
_DEPublicon M        ]                                     DEPARTMENT MANAGERI
Operatons



Annex 6: Financial Management Assessment                                   Page 1
Annex 6
Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Financial Management System Assessment
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
1.   Significant problems with PBDAC's and its affiliates' accounting and financial
management were identified during project preparation. The main inadequacies are the
following.
Accounting System
2.   PBDAC's accounting systems are in a process of change to incorporate the adoption of the
Central Bank of Egypt's (CBE) Circular n 391/91, which introduced new requirements
regarding asset risk classification and coverage, and of the Circular dated September 8, 1997,
which introduced a new chart of accounts for banks and the presentation of their financial
statements.
3.   PBDAC's 1997/1998 accounts have been set up on the basis of normal procedures used b
PBDAC. This situation has required, at the closing date, a certain number of adjustments before
the issuing of the financial statements in accordance with the aforementioned Circulars. Even
though inconsistent with International Accounting Standards (IAS), this approach has allowed
PBDAC to ensure the transit phase, and to enable the start-up of 1998/1999 accounting system in
conformity with CBE regulation, whose application is compulsory for 1997/1998 accounts.
4.   The start of 1998/1999 accounts has been preceded by the training of concerned
employees at the level of PBDAC and its three branches, as well as at the BDAC level and their
branches, including the Village Banks (VB) and their units. However, the updating of the
Accounting Procedures Manual (APM) has not yet been undertaken. This situation does not
provide the staff in charge of accounting with an official reference guide, and could lead to
inconsistencies due to subjective interpretations of the work rules and accounting policies.
Therefore, supplementary and even specific controls should be planned before the
commencement of 1998/1999 financial statements, and this could lead to delays in the issuing of
these statements. It is to be noted that this is made worse by the fact that the resources
(equipment and technology solutions) provided to the accountants in the Village Banks (VBs) are
different from those in other areas of the system. In fact, as of today, computerization remains
partial, and most VBs maintain their accounting books manually despite the significant number
of transactions.
5.   With reference to the regulation related to bookkeeping in financial and banking
institutions, PBDAC should prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with
Generally Accepted Accounting Policies (GAAP). However, the absence of an upgraded
accounting system and the setting up of a relevant functional structure in charge of this process
results in PBDAC's "global financial statements" being obtained by aggregation, after the
elimination of the some inter-structures operations. This failure does affect considerably the
reliability of the financial information, and PBDAC remains in an unacceptable situation.



Page 2                               Annex 6: Financial Management System Assessment
Control system
6.   With regard to the nature and extent of weaknesses raised by the Central Auditing Agency
(CAA) controllers in their report on PBDAC's financial statements as of June 30, 1998, the
conclusion is that controlling structures operating at the level of the BDACs and PBDAC remain
insufficient and are not adequately structured to cover all the transactions handled by the VBs.
Furthermore, there is no independent official structure (or task force ) in charge of the follow-up
of the application and the execution of the General Management instructions and to introduce the
recommendations developed by auditors.
7.   The CAA is the legal auditor of PBDAC and its affiliates (the 17 BDACs). The scope of
work and the role assigned to CAA controllers are defined by Law No 144 / 1988 related to the
creation and role of the CAA. This role could be considered one of inspection/internal control,
rather than of audit conducted according to the Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS).
There is considerable scope for improvement in the technical aspects, audit approach and audit
report presentation prior to CAA meeting a level of quality that could be considered as
acceptable to the Bank.
Management control and information system
8.   The reporting process of accounting and financial information from the VBs and their
units through the BDACs and its branches to PBDAC shows some inconsistencies in the
application of the accounting and reporting procedures. This makes the periodical issuance of
reliable, relevant, consistent and complete accounting and financial information difficult.
Furthermore, this failure could increase the duties of the accounting staff in charge of reconciling
the inter-structural positions and result in delays in the preparation of meaningful consolidated
financial statements.
9.   The project related to the conception and implementation of an Integrated Banking
Information System (IBIS), initiated in December 1997 (with an estimation date for starting by
March 1999), could be considered as an important step to improve PBDAC's financial
management and information system. However, this project does not seem to include many
required safeguards for its success. In fact, the project components do not include any actions to
up-grade the accounting system, the credit and banking policies, or the permanent internal
control process.
10.  The lBIS project monitoring approach does not seem  to include options for the
implementation of the integrated system, taking into consideration PBDAC's and its affiliates'
role, mnission, and historic and actual situation.
11.  PBDAC is in the process of addressing several of the above issues. The main actions are
as follows:
*  a study on financial management;
*  the estimation of provisions for current and bad loans to be booked, based on the terms of the
CBE Circular;
*  the setting-up of a medium-term forecast plan; and
*  the IBIS project.



Annex 6: Financial Management System Assessment                            Page 3
12. The conclusions and results of these studies, assigned partially to external consultants,
have certainly contributed to providing PBDAC with new tools and to improve the quality of the
financial information, and as a result the quality of the decision-making process. However, these
efforts remain insufficient in relation to PBDAC's need to attain its objectives according to local
regulations and its own obligations. These actions have been performed to address immediate
needs and have not been preceded by strategic thought for the identification of needs for the
implementation of a sound and adequate management information system and the issuing of an
implementation plan. Therefore, as of today, the vision is not clear and does not allow PBDAC to
achieve the desired objectives with the required efficiency and to take advantage of the synergy
effect.
Reporting System
13.  While PBDAC's operational activities are highly decentralized, the financial management
system is highly centralized. At the same time, there is little integration of the two, due to
inconsistent accounts and the lack of a sound computerized system.  The financial and
accounting information requires a long time to move through the system, and several points of
control are needed before the transposition of the data in the project accounts. This increases the
risks of mistakes and omissions, which could affect considerably the reliability of the financial
and accounting information, and in turn the ability of the Project Management Departnent
(PMD) to issue on a timely basis Project Management Reports (PMRs) at a level of quality
acceptable to the Bank.
SCOPE OF IMPROVEMENT
14. Many actions have been undertaken by the PBDAC aimed to:
V be in conformity with existing banking regulations;
/ improve the accounting system;
/ introduce technological solutions (computers, software, etc.);
/ improve the management information system;
15.  Even though these actions have certainly contributed to improving the reliability of
financial data and the decision making process, they remain incomplete, and even insufficient in
some cases, if we take into consideration PBDAC's real needs.
16.  In order to reduce insufficiencies and weaknesses outlined above, an agreed-upon financial
management strengthening program will be implemented in the context of the institution building
plan. This plan includes the following:
Accounting system
17.  In order to equip the basic structures in-charge of the bookkeeping with needed tools, it is
recommended to finalize the upgrading of the accounting procedures manual as quickly as
possible. This manual should take into account CBE regulations as well as IAS. To ensure the
timely implementation of this manual, the assistance of a highly qualified consultant is essential.



Page 4                               Annex 6: Financial Management System Assessment
18.  In order to ensure the homogeneous application of the accounting procedures and
principles, the implementation of the new accounting procedures manual requires adequate
training for all the VB and unit staff.
19.  Given the decentralization of operational activities and the centralization of accounting
and financial information, issuance of guidelines outlining the path of accounting and financial
information as it moves through the system is strongly recommended. This action will allow
PBDAC to:
/ guarantee consistency;
reduce the reprocessing/adjustment work during the final centralization phase at the
PBDAC level; and
/ contribute to improving the reliability of financial information.
This action should be undertaken as soon as possible in anticipation of final consolidation in
accordance with GAAP.
19.  In order to ensure conformity with the banking regulations in force, units in charge of the
accounting consolidation should be created and provided with the required resources and
facilities (guidelines, training, technical assistance, etc.). This action should be planned in
parallel with the implementation of IBIS.
Control system
20.  The operational control system should be strengthened in order to detect failures, frauds,
etc. To achieve this objective, a procedural manual should be prepared and distributed to the
control staff as official guidelines enabling them to perform the assigned tasks.
21.  In order to progressively improve the internal control system, it is recommended to create
a unit that will be in charge of the summary through synoptic schedules of the weaknesses raised
by the different controlling structures (including the CAA controllers).
22.  A clean opinion on PBDAC's financial statements in conformity with GAAS will only be
possible through a structured action plan. This action plan should be oriented toward a
progressive netting out of the different headings of the financial statements through the carrying
out of due diligence by professionals with significant experience in the banking sector. A three-
to five-year implementation period is anticipated in order to correctly assess: (a) the extent of the
audit report's qualifications, (b) the business risk, (c) the size of the PBDAC group, and (d) the
volume of the transactions. Immediate start-up is recommended.
Management information system
23.  Since the management information system cannot be completed within the next three
years, it is recommended to undertake measures to improve the quality of accounting and
financial information. These measures should include the implementation in all the VBs of a
uniform system for the transmission of the accounting and financial data and the up-date, at least
on a monthly basis, of all the accounting books and records, as well as the preparation of the
monthly reports.
24.  Successful implementation of the Integrated Banking Information System  (IBIS),
according to information contained in the terms of reference, will likely result in a satisfactory



Annex 6: Financial Management System Assessment                           Page 5
MIS for PBDAC. However, in order to attain this objective, it will be necessary to, in parallel,
upgrade the accounting system, upgrade the credit manual, and issue an internal control
procedures manual. Parallel implementation of these will allow PBDAC to improve the
efficiency of the implementation of IBIS.
Project monitoring and reporting
25.  Even if PBDAC is commencing immediately the process of strengthening its financial
management system, the implementation of these actions will require several years of concerted
effort. For these reasons specific arrangements for project monitoring and reporting should be
developed and implemented within a reasonable period. These arrangements are the following:
Accounting System
26.  Creating a chart of accounts specific to the project, according to IAS and taking into
account PBDAC's own activities and project specifications. The project chart of accounts would
be considered sub-accounts of PBDAC's overall chart of accounts. Cross-indexing would be
developed in order to facilitate data reconciliation.
27.  Issuing an accounting procedures manual for the project outlining, at a minimum: (a) job
responsibilities within the PMD, (b) monthly and annual ledger closing and reconciliation
procedures, including centralization and consolidation of data, (c) accounting policies, and (d)
banking and cash procedures. It is important that this manual be distributed to all project staff
prior to September 30, 1999
Organization of the PMD
28.  The PMD would be led by a Project Coordinator working under the direction of the
Chairman of PBDAC. The Coordinator will be responsible for overall project implementation,
including monitoring and evaluation, procurement, finance, and accounting procedures under the
project. He/she will be responsible for hiring sufficient qualified staff to manage the project and
to ensure acceptable and consistent internal controls. In addition to the Coordinator's office, the
PMD will be made up of four units:
(a) The Agriculture Technology Dissemination Unit;
(b) The Institutional Development Unit;
(c) The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit; and
(d) The Financial and Accounting Unit
29.  At the level of each BDAC, a coordinator responsible for project monitoring will be
designated to interact with the PMD. Each coordinator will be responsible for issuing weekly
and monthly reports summnarizing the subprojects appraised, the amounts granted, and the
amounts recovered, based on the books of accounts, to enable the PMD Financial and
Accounting Unit to record the transactions. The format and content of the reports as well as
procedures for data reconciliation will be defined within Internal Control Guidelines, which will
be developed prior to project disbursement. A memorandum of understanding regarding the
financial management and monitoring procedures will be signed by each IBDAC.
30.  In order to implement an acceptable system of internal control, the Financial and
Accounting Unit will be headed by a qualified Financial and Accounting Officer. This manager



Page 6                               Annex 6: Financial Management System Assessment
will be recruited no later than July 31, 1999. This person will be expected to demonstrate a
reasonable knowledge and understanding of World Bank/IDA procurement, disbursement,
project accounting, financial reporting and auditing guidelines and procedures by no later than
September 30, 1999.
31. Selection of the Financial and Accounting Officer will be based on the following criteria:
v  University degree in accounting or finance;
V At least ten years experience, with preference given to a candidate whose qualifications
include several combinations of the following: both public and private sector accounting,
banking, planning and budgeting, procurement and contract management, and previous or
current employment with an international auditor;
V Knowledge of international accounting standards and internal control procedures;
V Computer literacy coupled with experience in spreadsheet applications;
V Excellent communication skills in Arabic and English
32.   The Financial and Accounting Officer will be assisted by three persons as follows:
V An assistant accountant, with at least five years of experience, in charge of bookkeeping
preparation, reconciliation (particularly with BDAC and PBDAC general accounting
records) and budget preparation;
V A banking assistant in charge of the daily follow up of bank special accounts transactions
and balances, petty cash, payment withdrawals, replenishment, control, and financial
reporting; and
V Two procurement assistants working on all procurement issues. A consultant could be hired
for this assistance.
Guidelines for Internal Control Procedures
33. Internal control has traditionally been defined as all the policies and procedures used by
management to protect an organization's assets and to ensure the accuracy and reliability of
accounting records. Its also includes controls that deal with efficiency and adherence to
management policies. The principles of an internal control system are as follows:
V Authorization - All transactions and activities should be properly authorized by
management;
v  Recording transactions - All transactions should be recorded to facilitate preparation of the
financial statements and to establish accountability of the assets;
V Documents and records - The design and use of documents should help to ensure the proper
recording of transactions;
V  Limited access - Access to assets should be permitted only with the management's
authorization;
V Periodic independent verification - Accounting records should be checked against the assets
by someone other than persons responsible for the records and assets;
V Separation of duties - The organizational plan should separate functional responsibilities
(authorization, operating, handling assets and keeping the records ); and
V Sound personnel procedures - Sound practices should be followed in managing the people
who carry out the duties and functions.



Annex 6: Financial Management System Assessment                              Page 7
The Internal Control Guidelines should reflect all activity within the PMD, including a
description of: (a) staff positions and responsibilities, (b) transaction flows, and (c) relationship
with BDACs and other departments as well as with external authorities/administrations. This
system would be reviewed in light of implementing experience and modified as necessary.
Selection of a reporting software
34.  Reporting software - either off-the-shelf or customized - will be selected and implemented
no later than August 31, 1999. The implementation of the system would require: (a) special
adaptation to World Bank/IDA reporting requirements; (b) training of the project staff; and (c) a
successful test run of the accounting and reporting system. Supporting documents related to the
test should be considered official and kept as proof of test success.
Project Management Report
35.  Implementation of a sample PMR and running a successful test of the reporting system
reflecting amounts already disbursed will be undertaken during the first quarter of the project.
This first PMR is expected to be issued no later than August 15, 2000. The content and format of
the PMR, acceptable to the Bank, would be defined at the time of project launch, and would
include all key performance indicators as well as financial ratios enabling a close follow up of
the project implementation and the conditions for disbursement.
Analytical Reporting
36.  The PMD will put in place an Analytical Reporting System for the follow-up of project
implementation, including of subprojects appraised by PBDAC and its affiliates and goods and
service suppliers' contracts. The system should be able to report by entity (i.e., by PBDAC, by
BDAC), at a minimum, the following: (a) sub-loans granted; (b) total amounts of contract's
agreed (for follow-up and budgeting purposes); (c) amounts paid; (d) accounting references (for
reconciliation); (e) budget allocation; (f) amounts recovered from loans; etc.. Data should be
input on a weekly basis and reconciled with the general accounting system on a monthly basis.
This reconciliation should be in writing as a proof of clearance.
Training of the PMD staff
37.  Given the importance of the above actions, the PMD coordinator will develop a training
program for PMD staff and the regional coordinators. The program will cover financial
management procedures, internal control rules, accounting policies, reporting procedures and
World Bank/IDA procurement guidelines. This training program and timetable will be submitted
to the Bank by no later than October 31, 1999.
Identification and appointment of an external Auditor
38.  PBDAC's Chairman, in consultation with the PMD coordinator and the Financial and
Accounting Officer, will undertake the appointment of an external auditor. This action should
include:



Page 8                              Annex 6: Financial Management System Assessment
/  With the assistance of a qualified consultant, issuance of Terms of Reference for the audit of
PBDAC's annual financial statements, including a full annual audit of the project accounts.
The TOR will define the scope of work for the audit as well as for the due diligence work
during a transition period of three years.
Identification, selection and appointment, on the basis of a competitive bidding process, of a
recognized audit firm acceptable to the Bank to perforn the audit according to the Generally
Accepted Auditing Standards. This selection would be in accordance with World Bank
guidelines, and the appointment finalized by no later than December 31, 1999.



Annex 6: Financial Management System Assessment                             Page 9
Timetable for Establishment of Adequate Accounting and Reporting within the PMD
Assuming Loan effectiveness on February 28, 2000, the PMD head will be held to the following
schedule for implementing the financial management action plan over the next eighteen months.
Action                           Output              Responsibility   Effective date
Preparation of TOR for the       Detailed program for  Chairman &     August 31,1999
consultants and job position     the implementation    PMD head
description for the PMD staff to be    of the action plan,
hired/appointed                  TOR, and JPD
Organization of the PMD          Organization Chart   PMD &           September 30, 1999
and job description    Consultant
Program of Training of the PMD   Program: contents    PMD             September 30, 1999
staff                            and timetable
Accounting System for the project    Chart of account and  PMD &      October 31,1999
accounting manual    Consultant
Implementation of a software     Set-up of the system   PMD &         November 30, 1999
and testing         Consultant
Analytical Reporting System      Format and content   PMD &           December 31, 1999
of the ARS          Consultant
Internal control guidelines      Manual of procedures PMD &           December 31, 1999
Consultant
Reporting System                 Format and content   PMD & WB        December 31, 1999
of the PMR
Relationship with BDACs          Memorandum of       PMD & BDACs  January 31, 2000
understanding
Appointment of an independent    Audit contract      PBDAC            January 31, 2000
Auditor                                               Chairman &
PMD
PMD staff training               Training performance  PMD &          July 31, 2000
report              Consultant
Issuing of the First PMR         PMR                  PMD & WB        August 15, 2000
Evaluation of Financial Management PMR and Financial   PMD & WB       November 15, 2000
System and issuing of the second  management
PMR                              assessment report
Review of the internal control   Final version of the    PMD &        December 31, 2000
system                           Financial mgmt       Consultant
procedures manual



Annex 7: Environmental Management Plan                                      Page 1
Annex 7
Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Environmental Management Plan
Introduction
1.   The Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project (PSDAC) will provide financing
to private farmers and enterprises in the agricultural and rural sectors. A line of credit for this
purpose will be established by IBRD loan and IDA credit in the Principal Bank for Development
and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC) for on-lending to beneficiaries for financing eligible
investment sub-projects. These sub-projects to be financed from the credit line will include farm
inputs, equipment and machinery; poultry/livestock operations; agro-marketing and trade,
transport, storage, and custom services; and agro-processing. The PSDAC may also provide sub-
loans to other industrial establishments, and for land reclamation and development. The credit
line will be accessible to both new and existing farms and establishments.
2.   The total value of sub-projects to be assisted through the project will amount to US$ 446
million, toward which the World Bank will provide US $270 million. Most sub-loans are
expected to be in the range of LE 10,000 to LE 250,000. The number of sub-projects to be
financed by the PBDAC credit line under the PSAD project could be as many as 5,000. For a
disbursement period of five years or less, this could imply financing of more than 4 sub-projects
per working day.
Environmental Issues.
3.   It is expected that most on-farm sub-projects financed by the PSAD will have positive
environmental impacts. Such positive benefits are associated with more efficient use of water
and agro-chemicals, and improved land management. Some on-farm sub-projects could have
negative impacts unless mitigation measures are undertaken by the beneficiaries. These
implications are likely to be minimal because of the relatively small size of loans provided to
farmers. Sub-projects are not anticipated to require involuntary resettlement or to cause damage
to archeological and/or historical sites.
4.   Sub-projects in agricultural/agribusiness sectors may have more significant environmental
impacts.  For this reason, PBDAC has already developed environmental screening for
agricultural/agribusiness sub-projects financed by the on-going Agricultural Modernization
Project (AMP). PBDAC identified five agricultural/agribusiness sectors for which PBDAC
borrowers would provide information on their activities. These sectors are: (a) fisheries; (b)
diary product factories; (c) cooling and freezing operations; (d) fresh vegetables/fruits grading
and packing; and (e) poultry/livestock farns.
World Bank Environmental Safeguard Requirements
5.   The PSDAP is classified as Category FI (Financial Intermediary) in accordance with
World Bank Operational Policy 4.01 (OP 4.01), "Environmental Assessment." The World Bank
requires that an Fl (i.e. PBDAC) undertake an appropriate environmental assessment (EA) for
each sub-project. EA is a process whose analysis depends on the nature, scale, and potential
environmental impact of the proposed subproject. EA evaluates a subproject's potential



Page 2                                       Annex 7: Environmental Management Plan
environmental risks and impacts, and identifies ways to improve project design and
implementation to prevent, minimize, mitigate or compensate for adverse environmental impacts.
The EA process also requires clearly defined provisions to manage adverse environmental
impacts throughout subproject implementation.
6.   For an Fl operation, the Bank requires that each Fl screen proposed subprojects and
ensures that subborrowers carry out an appropriate EA for each subproject. Before approving a
subproject for financing, the Fl must verify, through its own staff, outside experts, or existing
environmental institutions that the subproject meets the environmental requirements of
appropriate national and local authorities and is consistent with OP 4.01 and other applicable
environmental policies of the Bank.
7.   Under the framework of the environmental regulations of Law No. 4 of 1994, discussed
below, this EMP shall use the Egyptian terminology, Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
for the systematic examination of unintended consequences of a development project or prograrn,
with the view to reduce or mitigate negative consequences.
8.   The Egyptian national environmental regulatory framework, as discussed below, contains
provisions that if followed, meet and satisfy the environmental safeguard requirements of the
World Bank as set forth in OP 4.01.
National Environmental Regulations
9.   The principal legislation for environmental protection in Egypt is the Environmental Law
No. 4/1994, and its Executive Regulations (1995). The law provided a three-year compliance
grace period, which expired in February 1998. Law No. 4/1994 and the executive regulations
require that environmental impact assessment (ELA) procedures are followed and clearance
obtained from the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) for all new establishments as
well as projects involving extensions and modernization of existing establishments.
10.  The Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) has prepared "Guidelines for
Environ-mental Impact Assessment" (EIA Guidelines) in Arabic and English. These EIA
Guidelines were developed to assist authorities and licensing agencies implement Articles of
Law 4 of 1994 concerned with EIA requirements of new projects. Law 4 states that the
environmental impact of certain establishments or projects must be evaluated before any
construction works are initiated or a Competent Administrative Authority (CAAA) or licensing
authority issues a license. Establishments or projects are subject to EIA based upon four main
principles: (1) type of activity performed by the establishment; (2) extent of natural resources
exploited; (3) location of the establishment; and (4) type of energy used to operate the
establishment. Projects are classified into three groups according to severity of environmental
impacts:
* White list projects for establishment/projects with minor environmental impact
* Grey list projects for establishments/projects which may result in substantial environmental
impact
* Black list projects for establishments/projects which may require complete EIA due to their
potential severity of impacts
11.   The White and Grey establishments/projects must submit Environmental Screening Form
"A" and Environmental Screening Form "B" respectively.



Annex 7: Environmental Management Plan                                      Page 3
12.  The Environmental Law No. 4 and its executive regulations also regulate existing
establishments, including agroprocessing plants and other industrial establishments that are
potential sub-borrowers from PBDAC to be financed by the PSAD project. EEAA has developed
a framework for an environmental self-assessment, which is part of the framework for the
Compliance Action Plan (CAP). The most important regulations of relevance for the PSAD
project are:
* Establishments are required to have an environmental register.
* Establishments should perform self-monitoring of air emissions, water effluents, and
efficiency of their pollution treatment systems;
* Expansion and modernization projects in existing establishments are required to follow the
EIA procedures; and
* The executive regulations provide the legal limits for air emissions and water effluents to
which establishments must comply.
Environmental Authorities
13.  The Environmental Management Sector in EEAA reviews and clears all EIA screening
forms and EIA studies for Grey and Black list projects forwarded by the CAAA before a license
is issued to the establishment. White list projects are reviewed and cleared by the Environmental
Management Units (EMUs) in the Governorates.
14.  Existing establishments are now required to comply with the Environmental Law No. 4
and its executive regulations, and an Industrial Compliance Unit was established in EEAA. The
Unit is working with industries for their compliance with environmental regulations, and has
developed industrial compliance action plans (CAPs), a self-monitoring guidebook and
inspection manuals. The Environmental Quality Sector in EEAA is also overseeing compliance
with environmental regulations.
15.  The Environmental Management Units (EMUs) in the governorates have varying degree of
human resource and technical capacity for environmental management. There are now several
projects and activities, supported by the international donor conmmunity as well as the World
Bank, to strengthen the environmental management capacity in several governorate EMUs.
EEAA is now reviewing and clearing all EIA forms and studies for Grey and Black projects. The
EMUs review and clear White list projects. It can be expected that the EMUs will gradually play
a greater role in inspection, monitoring and enforcement of environmental regulations.
16.  The most significant institutional and technical events and directions with relevance to the
PSAD Project is the establishment and strengthening of EEAA regional branch offices (RBOs),
continued strengthening of EEAA and Govemorate EMUs, development and strengthening of
new and existing environmental laboratories and field monitoring capacity, and an overall
increase in environmental consulting firms and environmental specialists.
17.  The Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources and the Ministry of Health are also
involved in environmental management issues regarding water pollution and water quality, and
workers occupational health and safety is also addressed by the Ministry of Industry and Mineral
Resources. The Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR) addresses agricultural
environmental and safety issues, including agrochemicals.



Page 4                                      Annex 7: Enviromnental Management Plan
PBDAC Environmental Unit
18.  PBDAC established an Environmental Unit under the Agricultural Modernization Project
(AMP). The unit developed an environmental manual and procedures to screen and review
environmental aspects of sub-projects supported by the AMP, provided environmental advice to
sub-project beneficiaries, and provided environmental training to PBDAC staff.
19.  The screening and review process is based on environmental questionnaires that were
developed for five agricultural/agrobusiness sectors. The questionnaires are filled out by
PBDAC borrowers in these sectors and reviewed by loan officers in the branch offices, who also
provide environmnental advice.
20.  The AMP also provided support to the strengthening of the environmental management
unit in the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR). Environmental training was
provided to agricultural extension service agents in order to improve on-farm environmental
performance.
Elements of the Environmental Management Plan
21.  As stated, some of the PSDAP subprojects may have adverse human health and/or
environmental impacts if not properly designed or operated. For this reason, under this Project,
PBDAC will: (i) develop a comprehensive and detailed EIA Process, in accordance with EEAA
regulations, World Bank OP 4.01, and the World Bank's Pollution Prevention and Abatement
Handbook in order to identify potential impacts and undertake mitigation measures to reduce
such impacts. This will have to be reviewed and cleared by the World Bank before its
implementation; (ii) implement a practical monitoring program to determine the effectiveness
and timeliness of these interventions; and (iii) engage in capacity building and training activities
to improve environmental awareness among the project staff, counterpart agencies and
beneficiaries
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Process
22.  Undertaking an Environmental Impact Assessment Process for the PSAD must become
standard practice. This will require PSAD staff to clarify to borrowers if they are required to
have any Environmental Screening Forms approved or undertake any ELA activities as required
by EEAA. These requirements will first include a screening process that will dictate what
subsequent action, if any is required as defined in the box below.



Annex 7: Environmental Management Plan                                                         Page 5
The Environmental Impact Assessment Process for PSDAP
Environmental Screening. First, each subproject will undergo a screening process in order to classify it into one of the
classes of likely environmental impacts. This initial step helps identify those subprojects that, because of potential adverse
environmental impacts, will require greater scrutiny. At the same time, it eliminates numerous subprojects, which have no
significant adverse environmental consequences so that they can be excluded from unnecessary and costly environmental
assessments. A subproject is classified according to EEAA guidance. Subprojects that have no impacts will be excluded from
any further impact assessment. Subprojects that have minimal adverse impacts can be dealt with by applying relatively
simple miitigation measures.
Environmental Impact Assessment. Once the review process is undertaken, a decision will need to be made as to the
appropriate level of subsequent environmental impact assessment. A three-tier approach follows the EEAA guidance on
white, grey and black classified projects.
*   White subprojects will require the completion and acceptance of Environmental Screening Form A.
*   Grey subprojects will require the completion and acceptance of Environmental Screening Form B. These grey
subprojects may be accepted with no mitigation measures required, with possible mitigation measures required, or
require a scoped EIA study and report.
*   Black subprojects will require a full EIA study and report
A scoped EIA or a full EIA. These two approaches to enviromrental impact assessment differ in the amount of resources
and time required to complete the process. In many instances, the scoped EIA can be accomplished with one expert during a
short visit to the field. However, the full EIA often requires a collection of specialists to review and evaluate numerous
components of the proposed scheme.
Environmental Screening
23.   Due to the large volume of sub-projects, and that most small sub-projects are expected to
have no or minimal environmental impacts, a set of transparent screening criteria will be applied
by PBDAC in order to identify subprojects with potentially significant environmental impacts.
The screening criteria are based on type of subproject, the guidance of EEAA and current World
Bank environmental safeguards.
24.   Consequently, subproject financing  will not be  provided  for purchase, handling,
processing, storage, transport, distribution or disposal of pesticides. In addition, subproject
financing of refrigeration and cooling units is restricted to units utilizing non-ozone-depleting
substances.
25.   The following subprojects are not on any of the EEAA  lists and will not require anv
environmental procedures:
* farm input, equipment, and machinery;
* agro marketing, storage, and trade; or
* transport and custom services equipment and machinery.
26.   Environmental impact assessments will be required regardless of the loan amount for any
of the subproject types listed in Table 1. The required procedures are identified for new
establishments and extensions according to subproject and size, as defined by EEAA in their EIA
guidance. These criteria dictate the type of documents required, as listed below:
* Environmental Screening Form A
* Environmental Screening Form B



Page 6                                      Annex 7: Environmental Management Plan
* Scoped EIA report, or
* Full EIA report
27.  During the implementation of the PSAD project, the Environment Unit in PBDAC will
periodically (every 6 months) review the list (Table 1) of sub-projects for which environmental
assessments are required, and revise the list as deemed necessary in order for sub-projects to
comply with Egypt's environmental regulations and World Bank enviromnental policies.
Environmental Review and Clearance
28. Sub-projects, for which environmental impact assessment procedures are required as
defined above, will require environmental review and clearance prior to PBDAC financing by the
appropriate CAAA.
29.  The "A" and "B" screening forms must be filled out by the borrower and submitted to the
CAAA, which will forward the forms to EEAA for review and clearance (Form A is reviewed
and cleared by the EMUs). Loans requiring a scoped EIA or full EIA are reviewed and cleared
by EEAA.
30. PBDAC's role would be to ensure that the borrower complies with the environmental
regulations and appropriate procedures. Specifically, PBDAC would:
* Ensure that the loan applicant has followed the EIA procedures, that the sub-project has been
cleared by EEAA (or the EMU), and that a license has been issued to the applicant. A copy
of the license and a copy of completed Form A, B and/or scoped or full EIA study and
clearance, should be attached to the loan application.
* If the applicant has not completed the forms or undertaken an EIA prior to submitting a loan
application, PBDAC should advice the applicant of the relevant process, direct the applicant
to the relevant authorities, and, if necessary, inform the applicant of sources of environmental
expertise to assist in the EIA procedures. The applicant should return with copies of the
necessary documentation and their clearance prior to PBDAC providing a loan.
31. Finally, any subproject costing more than US $ 1 million will be required to be submitted
to the World Bank for review and approval prior to lending.
Environmental Impact Assessment Manual
32. PBDAC, through its Environmental Unit, will develop a comprehensive Environmental
Impact Assessment Manual that will be included as part of the Operation Manual for the PSDAP.
This Manual will include a detailed description of all ETA procedures as required by EEAA
regulations. An overview of waste characteristics and pollution prevention and control methods
will also be developed. Other required sections are treatment technologies, emission and
discharge guidelines and details about acceptable emission thresholds for key parameters.
Furthermore, this document will include monitoring indicators. The World Bank Pollution
Prevention and Abatement Handbook, 1998 will be consulted for subprojects listed in Table 1
and all pertinent material included in the manual. The Manual will be prepared and submitted to
the World Bank for review and clearance, before its approval and implementation by PBDAC,
before September 30, 2000.



Annex 7: Environmental Management Plan                                      Page 7
Monitoring and Supervision
33.  The PSDAP needs to implement an environmental performance-monitoring plan to ensure
that three key environmental safeguard provisions are adequately implemented and effective in
reducing impacts according to design. These provisions include (i) the pre-approval EIA process,
(ii) the post approval mitigation and EIA study and report, and (iii) the registration of PSDAP
subprojects by EEAA in its EIA register. These monitoring plan considerations will have to be
incorporated into the overall PSDAP monitoring plan defined as part of Project performance
requirements by the Bank. In addition, supervision actions are required by the Bank to determine
the effectiveness of these provisions.
Monitoring
34. For the Pre-approval process, PBDAC needs to have a mechanism in place to determine if
all PBDAC locations are following screening procedures. An annual review of branch, regional,
and local offices is needed. This review will determine if guidance is followed, clarify if EEAA
and CAAA actions are occurring in a timely fashion, and identify shortcomings in the EIA
process. For monitoring post approval mitigation and EIA study and reports, a sample of Grey
and Black subprojects will need to be. The PBDAC will need to undertake this exercise in
collaboration with EEAA. Finally, PBDAC will need to be provided an annual report from
EEAA giving details about PSAD subprojects that it includes in its EIA register.
Supervision
35.  Project supervision will include the participation of an environmental specialist during the
project launching workshop and regularly during the first year supervision missions, during the
Mid-Term Review and in the Implementation Completion Report. This specialist will review
progress in implementation of the EMP as well as EIAs for selected subproject schemes. These
supervision missions will include review of the environmental screening process, extent of the
effectiveness of mitigatory and monitoring measures, and progress in increasing awareness and
environmental concern throughout the PSDAP.
36.  All projects exceeding US S 1 million are required to be submitted to The World Bank
before approval. The PSDAP will also ensure that these projects are reviewed by a World Bank
environmental specialist.
Staffing, Training and Institutional Strengthening
37.  Staffing: The PSDAP Project will provide support to strengthen PBDAC's Environmental
Unit which would consist of a full-time Director, an Environmental Specialist (consultant), and
three enviromnental assistants. Specifically, the external Environmental Specialist (recruited
externally) will undertake the following responsibilities: (i) oversee the development of
guidelines for screening and environmental impact assessment; (ii) supervise the preparation and
implementation of the Environmental Manual; (iii) coordinate activities of the PSAD with the
EEAA, RBOs and Governorate EMUs, (iv) develop and manage the environmental training
program, and  (v) implement the monitoring and supervision plans. This Environmental
Specialist will be based at the central PBDAC's Environmental Unit, working in close
coordination with the Project's Project Management Department (PMD). At the same time,
PBDAC will appoint a full-time Director for the Environmental Unit, plus a basic team of four
environmental assistants for this Unit. In addition, PBDAC will appoint in each of the 3



Page 8                                       Annex 7: Environmental Management Plan
branches and 17 regional offices one current staff person who will be trained to become an
environmental coordinator.
38. Environmental Training for PBDAC Management and Staff: Management and Staff at all
levels of the PBDAC will need to go through standardized training programs that cover
environmental assessment and regulatory issues. The environmental role of PBDAC under the
PSDAP will in some respects be different than for the AMP. The environmental training plan for
the period up to December 2000 should reflect this new role as specified in this EMP. The
PBDAC offices located at the branches, village banks and retail units/outlets will have to
function as information agents and provide practical information to inform borrowers of these
requirements so that the all appropriate forms and reports will be, when required, completed. To
accomplish this goal, the PBDAC will undertake training of its loan officers and develop a set of
information brochures.
39.  The training program for PBDAC staff will include training on:
Legal requirements of Law 4 and applications of the Executive Regulations
EIA techniques including white, grey, black projects
Screening projects for environmental review
Environmental audits
Use of practical checklists
Best environmental practices in design and implementation of projects
Effective implementation of mitigation measures
Project supervision
Monitoring and evaluation
40.  A contract will be issued for undertaking all such training, targeting the loan officers at the
1,702 offices that constitute the local branches, village banks and retail units/outlets.
41.  Institutional Strengthening: The PSDAP will also provide funds to hire consultants to
work with EEAA and CAAAs so that all required and submitted Environmental Screening
Forms, scoped EIAs and full ELAs are turned around in adequate time. In addition, these
consultants will support applicants and their agents in clarifying EEAA regulations when
necessary. The EEAA will delegate one of its staff full time to the PSAD to assist the
environmental specialist and ensure that EEAA regulations are adequately incorporated into
PSAD activities. This person will also assist the PSAD undertake any special needs with the
EEAA. Both these professionals will also coordinate actions with appropriate CCAs when
needed. Finally, the Project will also finance short-term consultants as needed, two vehicles,
computers and office equipment for the central Environmental Unit. (See Table 3 attached).



Annex 7: Environmental Management Plan                                                                                 Page 9
Environmental Impact Assessment
Requirements for the PSDAC Project
I
See appropriate box for
Instructions                        I.Prohibited or Restricted
Purchase, storage, handling,    ZNo EIA Requirements
1. Prohibited/Restricted                processing, transportl          *   Farm input, equipment and
2. No EIA Requirements                  distribution or disposal of          machinery
3. White Projects                       pesticides                      *   Agro marketing, storage, and
4. Grey Projects                                                            trade
5. Black Projects                    *   Refrigeration and cooling      *   Transport and custom services
6. Large Projects                        units limited to non-               equipment and machinery
utilizing ozone depieting
3. White Projects
Loan applicant apples to appropriate CAAA with letter of
intent
Attach completed Environmental Screening Form A
CAAA registers documents and confirms information &
categories correct
CAAA submits documents to EEAA
EEAA reviews & evaluates documents within 60 days
CAAA notifies loan applicant by registered letter of EEAA
review
4. Grey Projects
Loan applicant applies to appropriate CAAA with letter of intent
Attach completed Environmental Screening Form B
CAAA registers documents and confirms information & categories correct
CAAA submits documents to EEAA
EEAA reviews & evaluates documents within 60 days
CAAA notifies loan applicant by registered letter of EEAA review
*   approval including possible mitigation measures
*   disapproval
*   request for applicant to complete a scoped EIA for certain impacts/processes in
accordance with Terms of Reference developed by EEAA
CAAA ensures implementation ofthe decision
5. Black Projects
Loan applicant attaches three copies of the full EIA in accordance with the relevant EEAA
guidelines for establishments that need full EIA
CAAA registers documents and confirms information & categories correct
CAAA submits documents to EEAA
EEAA reviews & evaluates documents within 60 days
CAAA notifies loan applicant by registered letter of EEAA review
*   approval including possible measures to be taken to ensure protection of the environment
*   disapproval of the project
CAAA ensures implementation of the decision
6. Large Projects costing more than SUS I million
Loan application material must be submitted to World Bank
Headquarters for review and evaluation
Environmental specialists will review
*   determine if any environmental impacts exist
*   indicate environmental safeguards are met



Page 10                                                        Annex 7: Environmental Management Plan
Table 1. Screening Checklist, Required Action and Responsible Authority
0Dairy:Proects                                                                                    Ministy6yfIndusty &Mineral
/OO toesou rces
Factories producingcasrednfguit or iLesithan            Morethan1000 0                            Ministry of Industry & Mineral
canned vegetables    :20::  0 0;:A:?:  1000tornner          tones/yr       X:g  0A: ; ff    :X D  0y 0 : Rsources   0
0Centers for cooling,soirting, paking 0               t   .;i00:0000:0:0 :3:              i       Minisry of Industry &Mineral 
and grading for fruits and vegetables                                                                      Resources
Abattoir or installations or                                                                      M inistry of Industry & Mineral
slaghtering atimails (Meat                                                                                  Resorces
Processing)
Aqua"Cuture farms                                                                                 Ministry of Agriculture & Land
Facilities for manufacturing animal                                                               Ministry oflndustry & Mineral
and fish,foodstuffs                                                                                        Resucs
SugartreflnerleJ                                                                                  Ministryof ndustry &Mineral
Suarn efneries                                          Prdcinls              ~        4o         Ministry of Industry & Mineral
Tanneries   -0    0                    :i;Production less    - Production   :ore                  Ministryof Industry &Mineral
than :  mnillion  than I millionsquare            Resources
square fVyr or less    ft/yr or more than
thin 750 hie/a          5  ie/a 
':,'1~~~~Im Oa.-,-  .-. IJI ,                                                                              <--- --
Irrigation projectsdms & barrages                                                                   it  of mi ofWater Resources &
V                     Public Works



Annex 7: Environmental Management Plan                                        Page 11
Table 2 - EMP Implementation Schedule
Major Project        Is'  2    3rd  4..........   3,       4    1    2         T    I"   2`4
Activities           Qtr  Qtr  Qtr  Qir  Qtr  Qer  Qtr  Qtr  Qtr  Qtr  Qtr  Qtr  Qtr  Qtr
00   00   00   00   01   01   0!   01   027  02   02   02   03   03
Revise
Environmental
Screening Checklists
Develop Guidelines
and Manual
Training
Development of
training material
Conduct training
-PSAD
Mgmt!staff
-Branch/Regional
Offices
-Local Units               _        -               -
Monitoring Plan and
Supervision
- Review screening
provisions
-Conduct field
evaluations
- EEAA EIA
register
-Supervision



Page 12                                      Annex 7: Environmental Management Plan
Table 3 - EMP Cost Estimates
Total      Foreign       Local
Environmental Expert hired   48 MM      2,000/MM            96            0          96
for 4 years
Revise checklists
Develop procedures
Develop training
material
Coordinate training
Coordinate monitoring
plan
Participate in
evaluation
Contract for Environmental   10MM       4,000/MM            40          40            0
Impact Assessment Manual
EEAA Consultants           50MM         2,000/MM           100          50           50
Consultants for conducting
training:
a) Design training
programs & material     5MM          2,000/MM           10             0          10
b)Branch/regional
mgmt./staff training                10,000/year         40           20           20
(2 workshops/yr.)
c) Local units
(2 workshops/month)                 24,000/year         96           48           48
Consultant to design and
implement monitoring       20MM        2,000/MM            40           20           20
program
Vehicles                      2           20,000            40          40            0
Computers, Printers and    Lump-          20,000            20          20            0
Office Equipment.           sum
TOTAL                                                      482         238          244



Annex 8: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                       Page 1
Annex 8
Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
I. Proiect Benefits
1.    The project would primarily benefit rural households by increasing income and
employment in rural Egypt. Interested farmers and rural entrepreneurs would be assisted,
through the provision of credit facilities and rural banking services, to take advantage of market
and investment opportunities that developed through liberalization of the market and
decentralization of post-harvest processing activities. In accordance with these objectives, the
project is designed to assist PBDAC to transform itself to become an efficient, commercially
oriented financial intermediary, meeting the banking needs of the rural farmers. In addition,
private and public technical advisory services would be employed under the project to promote
rural credit and dissemination of modernized technologies. The utilization of several sources,
such as universities, input suppliers and rural enterprises, would provide alternative channels to
Government provided services and help enhance competition and efficiency.
2.    Almost 90 percent of the project funds are allocated for on-lending purposes and the
remaining 10 percent, for strengthening PBDAC's institutional capacity.  The funds for on-
lending are expected to finance PBDAC's clients in procuring modernized farm technologies,
and establishing rural enterprises. Usage of modern farm implements and technology packages is
expected to enhance crop production, reduce farm input usage, and increase farm income and
skilled labor productivity. Similarly, financing small- and medium -scale rural enterprises is
expected to increase crop-value added, reduce post-harvest loses, create job opportunity and
enhance rural income. The restructuring of PBDAC into a full-fledged rural financial institution
would enhance banking services and also bring significant improvement in the overall efficiency
of the rural financial systems.
3.    While the benefits of institutional strengthening are difficult to quantify, the conservative
approach adopted consisted in estimating the project benefits arising only from the on-lending
components. Based on disbursement ratios under on-going projects, it was assumed that 70% of
the funds allocated for on-lending would be used for financing small and medium rural agro-
processing and rural trading activities, and the remaining 30% would be used to finance
modernized farming technologies. As such, these ratios were used in apportioning the on-
lending funds to agro-processing and modernized farming technologies and for the estimate of
the consolidated stream of cost and benefits.
4.    It was assumed that the project activities would start as soon as they became effective,
since most of the envisaged activities are similar to the operations performed under on-going
Agricultural Modernization Project. The volume of on-lending operations to the private
entrepreneurs has, therefore, been assumed to be divided equally among the five years of the
project. Since any saving in unskilled farm labor as a result of intensive farm machinery usage
would be realized between planting and harvesting seasons, when labor is in short supply,
shadow wage rate was assumed to be the same as the financial wage rate.



Page 2                                        Annex 8: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
5.    Although the agri-business activities and on-farm technology package components of the
project would generally complement each other in improving rural income and enhancing crop
production, the components are analyzed separately to bring into better perspective their distinct
cost and benefit structures. Crop budgets, farm models, and machinery renting service models
are used to assess the project cost and benefit accruing from increases in crop production and
reduced input costs. Similarly, four prototypes of agro-processing and marketing models were
developed to capture the economic and financial benefit derived from financing small and
medium agro-processing and marketing enterprises. Based on the disbursement profiles under
other on-going projects, a weighing scheme for these two components was formulated in
calculating the project's overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Financial Rate of Return
(FRR).
II. Economic and Financial Analysis for on Farm Technology Component.
A. Farm Models, Crop Budgets and Farm Machinery Renting Service Models.
6.    Crop Budgets: Crop budgets have been developed for 12 major crops including wheat,
broad beans, berseem, cotton, rice, potato, winter vegetable, maize, sugar cane, sesame,
groundnuts, and water melon in Egypt. Depending on their region of cultivation, these budgets
show crop yield, production, input, labor, and machinery requirements under the agro-climatic
condition of Old Lands, New Lands and Upper Egypt and, for each of them, presenting "With"
and "Without" project situations. Under the situation without project, it has been assumed that
farmers and investors would not have access to adequate sources of financing to purchase
modernized technologies, and the present dissemination program is too slow to promote wide
adoption of improved technologies.
7.    Under the With project situation, benefits would accrue through usage of better seed
varieties, proper land leveling, using seed drill, row and ridge cultivation, and improved
irrigation practices. In these budgets, it was assumed that farmers would hire the machinery
services, while the family contributes 70% of manual labor requirement. The detailed analysis of
these crop budgets is included in the documents kept in the Project File.
8.    Farm Models. The crop budgets were used in the construction of farm models to
analyze the project impacts on farm household situations in the three main agro-climatic regions
in Egypt: Delta, Upper Egypt, and the New Lands. Model A represents a typical 3 feddans
farm household under the prevailing agricultural condition in the Old Lands. In accordance with
the typical cropping rotation in the Old Lands, the farmer is expected to plant wheat, broad
beans, burseem, potato, and tomato in the winter; and maize, rice, cotton, vegetable, and
groundnuts in the Summer and Nili seasons. The cropping intensity under this model is assumed
to be 200 percent.
9.    Model B, a 2 feddan farm, represents the average holding size, cropping intensity, and
crop rotation in Upper Egypt under with and without project situations. Under this model, it is
assumed that the farmer grows sugar cane as a perennial crop; wheat, beans, burseem, and tomato
in the winter; maize and sesame in the summer and Nili seasons. The crop intensity under this
model is assumed to be 200 percent.
10.   Model C is a 5-feddan model and represents the average holding size in New Lands
under with and without project situations. The farmer under this model with a crop intensity of



Annex 8: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary                                       Page 3
185% is assumed to grow wheat, beans, berseem, and vegetable in the winter and Maize, cotton,
watermelon, groundnut, and sesame in the summer and Nili seasons.
11.   These models show that the project would be instrumental in causing a significant
increase in crop production and farmer income in all three regions. However, production and net
revenue gains would be higher in the Old Lands and Upper Egypt compared to that of the New
Lands. The net farm revenue rises by 40 percent for Model A (Old Lands), 35 percent for Model
B (Upper Egypt), and 17 percent for Model C (New Lands). While the detailed analysis of these
models is kept in the Project File, the summary of the main findings is portrayed in Table 1. The
return for family labor was increased by 49 percent for Model A, 29 percent for Model B, and 27
percent for model C.
Table 1. Return to Family Labor Under Different Models
(in LE)
Model A           Model B             Model C
Without   With    Without With   Without         With
1. TotalNetIncome              9406     13188    4463    6017       6971       8158
2. Labor Person' (Days/Yr.)    280       273       146     147       342        344
3. Family Labor Person          196      191       102     103       239        241
(Days/Yr.)
4. ReturnperdayofFamily         41        61       34       44       15          19
Labor (LE/day)
5. Incremental Skilled Labor             6.4               2.3                   5.8
Required 2 (Days/Yr.)
12.   As presented in Table 1, the demand for unskilled farm labor almost remains at the same
level under with and without project situations. Inside the farm, although unskilled labor
requirement for such operations as land preparation and harvesting is reduced, the unskilled labor
demand for other tasks, such as bagging, transporting and weeding, would increase as a result of
adoption of higher yielding varieties and incremental crop production. At the same time, the
demand for skilled labor from outside the farm would increase as a result of greater reliance on
farm machinery (the incremental skilled labor demand is derived from labor operating custom
service business). In addition, the project would be instrumental in creating jobs in such sector
as agro-processing, marketing and transportation, and related services. Therefore, the overall
project impact on rural employment would be substantial.
13.   It should be noted that in spite of the high degree of primary mechanization across Egypt,
the scarcity of farm labor is real as labor demand peaks during May-June and September-October
each year, when harvest, land preparation and planting follow each other in continuous
succession. During these periods, labor shortage exists in all farming areas and maintaining
proper timeliness for field operations become exceedingly difficult.  As such, usage of
appropriate mechanized operations would allow the farmers to mitigate labor shortage during
these periods of peak demand and enable them to engage in the production of higher value and
higher yielding crop varieties.
I    Indicates total labor, mostly unskilled, requirement including hired and family labor
2    Indicates labor that is employed by hired service (custom service) operation to provide farm
machinery services.



Page 4                                        Annex 8: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
14.   Farm Machinery Renting Services. As the farm size is small in Egypt, machinery
services are provided both through specialized custom service operators, and through farmers'
groups. PBDAC provides medium term lending for financing farm equipment and machinery
and long-term loans for construction of civil infrastructure to house these machinery and
equipment. Three farm machinery renting service models were constructed to evaluate cost and
benefit of such operations and to assist in the calculation of ERR and FRR for on farm
technology package component of the project:
(i) Model I represents investment and operation costs of a farm machinery hiring service
with a capacity to operate 1000 feddans of land under the situations of the Old Lands.
(ii) Model II represents a smaller farm machinery renting service, providing machinery
needs of 500 feddans under the situation of Old and New lands, and Upper Egypt.
(iii) Model HI represent a farm machinery renting service with a capacity to provide
machinery and equipment needs of a 1000 feddans in New Lands.
15.   Cash flows and income statements were developed for these models (see Project File).
In the calculation of these cash-flows and income statements it has been assumed that: (i) the
investors would finance the purchase of machinery and equipment under the prevailing lending
terms of PBDAC; (ii) the machinery and equipment have a service life of 10 years; (iii) the
service charges are calculated on the basis of the prevailing market rates in Egypt. A 20% sales
tax and import duties were deducted from the financial price of equipment and machinery for
conversion to the economic prices; and (iv) the type of machinery included in the models are in
accordance with the operation needs of a particular region.
16. These financial and economic rates of returns for these models are presented in Table 2.
These rates of return show a clear indication that the renting services are financially viable, and
the investors can easily repay the loans.
Table 2: Financial and Economical Rates of Return for the Farm Machinery Models.
Model          FRR3       FRR 4    ERR
Model I         25         19         43
ModelII         31         24         48
Model III       26         20         39
B. Economic and Financial Analysis
17.   An estimated 30 percent of the on-lending operations would be for financing either:
(i) farm machinery and equipment, to clients in farm machinery renting businesses who would
then provide the services to farmers; or (ii) farmers would invest in on-farm technologies to
increase crop yields and agricultural income, and who would use the services of these renting
3    Estimate with normal streams of benefits and costs.
4    Estimate when revenues are 10% lower.



Annex 8: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary                                      Page 5
services. For the purpose of a more comprehensive economic analysis, the Farm Models and the
Farm Machinery Service Models were combined into one representing the Agricultural
Technology Component.
18.   For this component, the benefit and cost streams were derived from the consolidation of
all the models, region by region, and in a proportion consistent with the operating capacity of the
machinery service providers. These services models, however, were assumed to be newly
created enterprises which would be providing services to a number of existing farmers (according
with the maximum capacity of the equipment available) for the purpose of increasing their area
planted and harvested.
19.   The major assumptions used in calculating the Economic Rate of Return (ERR ) of the
project are the following:
(i) The exchange rate is US$ 1.00 = LE 3.4 (in July 1998);
(ii) World Bank price projections were used to estimate farm-gate economic prices of
cotton, wheat, corn, and sugar cane. As Egypt exports rice to the Middle East and its
exportation is expanding, the FOB price is used for the derivation of the economic
price;
(iii) The economic life of the farm implements and agri-business investment is 10 years
and that of civil structures 20 years;
(iv) The scope of the project coverage in Old Land, New Lands and Upper Egypt was
calculated on the basis of the prevailing cropping areas in 1997, and assessment of
technology uptake in the three regions;
(v) The adaptability rate was assumed to be: for Model I 20% in the Old Lands; for Model
II 80% in the Old and New Lands, 100% in Upper Egypt, and for Model m1 20% in
New Lands; and
(vi) it has been conservatively assumed that only 60% of benefits would accrue, and crop
production benefits would be realized after one-year lag period.
20.   Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return for this component is calculated
at 33 percent and its financial rate of return at 35 percent. The FRR would drop to 31 percent if
the total incremental revenue drops by 10 percent (see documents in the Project File).
21.   At the full implementation time, the proposed project would provide the incremental
farm machinery and equipment needs of about one million feddans. The component is expected
to generate about 775,000 tons of wheat, 72,000 tons of rice, 111,000 tons of maize, 72,000 tons
of cotton, 775,000 tons of sugar cane, 47,000 tons of beans, 287,000 tons of potato, 27,000 tons
of groundnut, and 6,000 tons of sesame.
m. Economic Analysis for Rural Based Enterprises Comuonent
22.   As a result of the economic liberalization and the GOE's desire to improve rural income
and employment, there is a more positive atmosphere for private investment in rural sector



Page 6                                        Annex 8: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
enterprises. Recent experience under the on-going Agricultural Modernization Project (AMP)
indicates that there is considerable scope for expanding private investments in farming activities,
as well as on related services and agri-businesses. Based on the actual pattern of lending under
the AMP, five prototypes of agri-business enterprises (olive oil processing, rice milling,
refrigerated storage and transportation, and dairy processing) have been identified for analyzing
economic and financial rate of return of this component.
23.   Economic cost of the prototype investments includes operating costs, investment costs,
and working capital needed by the enterprise. The average econornic life of each enterprise is
estimated to be 10 years, and direct transfer payments including taxes, duties and subsidies were
deducted from financial prices to reflect the economic value of a particular enterprise.
24.   The economic and financial rates of return which were calculated for these industries are
presented below, and their detailed income and cash-flow statements are presented the
documents maintained in the Project Files.
Table 3: Financial and Economical Rates of Return for the Agri-Business Models.
Tvye of Model                  FRR 5           FR 6        ERR
I .Olive Oil Extraction Plant  37               32         51
2. Rice Mill                   25               15         33
3. Refrigerated Truck          36               19         47
4. Cold Storage Unit           29               25         42
5. Dairy Processing Operation  30               21         36
III. Calculation of ERR and FRR for the Entire Proiect
25.   The ERR and FRR for the entire project is calculated using the assumptions detailed
above, and calculated on the basis of a weighing factor of 30 percent to incremental crop
production and 70 percent to agri-business models. Using these weighing schemes, the ERR and
FRR are estimated at around 39 percent and 32 percent respectively. The FRR would drop down
to 25 percent if the project incremental revenue drops by 10 percent.
26.   The project would also have a significant direct impact on the level of employment by
creating 37,000 new jobs in the rural areas. In the case of the farming operations, the
introduction of a greater level of mechanization would be compensated by more labor needed for
harvesting and post-harvest activities and, therefore, the overall effect on farm employment
would be neutral. However, there would be a larger impact in the case of the creation or
expansion of the farm machinery service providers, where about 8,000 new jobs would be
created. The largest impact would be in the case of the agri-businesses models, where there
5    Estimate under normal conditions.
6    Estimate when revenues drop by 10%.



Annex 8: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary                                     Page 7
would be about 29,000 new jobs created by the activities financed. Indirectly, the project would
also promote employment by increasing economic activity in these rural areas.



Annex 9: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                         Page 1
Annex 9
Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
1.   The project has only two main components: (i) a Line of Credit for US$267.75 million;
and  (ii) an Institution Building Plan for up to US$30 million. The Credit Line would be
financed by a Bank loan (US$222.75 million) and a portion (US$45 million) of the IDA credit, to
provide financing to eligible investment subprojects, presented by the private sector (farmers,
agri-businesses, custom service operators, storage and marketing fins, rural entrepreneurs, etc.)
and approved by PBDAC. The Institution Building Plan, to be implemented by PBDAC, would
be entirely financed by the balance of the IDA credit (equivalent to US$30 million).
2.   In the case of the Credit Line, the maximum amount established for sub-loans approved
for financing these eligible investment subprojects is US$3 million equivalent, but most contracts
are expected to be between US$50,000 and US$250,000. All private contracts by these
sub-borrowers (financed under approved sub-loans) above an estimated cost of US$1 million
equivalent, will be normally procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures
in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines ("Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits", dated January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and
January 1999).  These procedures will include the use of the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents (in English), and should be advertised in the "UN Development Business" and at
least two national newspapers. Bid evaluations would be submitted following the Bank's
standard bid evaluation form "Procurement of Goods and Works" (April 1996). These contracts
under ICB procedures would be subject to mandatory Prior Review by the Bank and IDA in
accordance with the applicable Guidelines. All other private contracts by the sub-borrowers in
the implementation of the approved subprojects, for the procurement of goods, works and
services, would follow established private sector commercial practices acceptable to the Bank
and IDA. The Project Management Department (PMD) in PBDAC, which is the unit establish
for the coordination and monitoring of project financed by the World Bank Group, would be also
responsible for monitoring that all expenditures are for the investment subprojects approved, and
that these are reasonably priced by ensuring that the sub-borrowers have canvassed the main
sources of supply and purchased from the most advantageous source.
3.   In the case of the Institutional Building Plan, all procurement of goods and services
would be carried out by PBDAC, through its PMD, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines:
(i) "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", dated January 1995, revised January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999);  (ii) "Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", dated January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999. PBDAC has participated in the implementation of several Bank's projects,
including the on-going Agricultural Modernization Project (Loan 3719-EGT/Credit 2585-EGT,
where PBDAC is the Borrower of the loan), and has a well demonstrated capacity for carrying
out procurement in agreement with Bank and IDA procedures. The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents (in English) would be used for all procurement under International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), and with modifications acceptable to the Bank and IDA (in Arabic) for National



Page 2                            Annex 9: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Competitive Bidding (NCB). Simplified documents (in Arabic), also acceptable to the Bank and
IDA, would be used under the project for National and International Shopping (NS/IS).
4.   Procurement methods to be followed by PBDAC for different activities under the
Institutional Building Plan are:
(a) Goods. To the extent possible, the procurement of computer equipment (hardware
and software), as well as other office equipment and vehicles, would be packaged in lots
of similar items. Packages with an estimated cost of above US$ 500,000 would be
procured using ICB procedures and Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (in English),
and should be advertised in the "UN Development Business" and at least two national
newspapers. Contract for goods with and estimated value between US$ 100,000 and
US$ 500,000, would be procured under NCB procedures using national standard
documents (in Arabic) acceptable to the Bank and IDA, and advertised in at least two
local newspapers. The procurement of goods (including materials and supplies) below an
estimated value of US$ 100,000 would follow NS or IS procedures, using simplified
documents and procedures for inviting, receiving and evaluating competitive quotations
from a minimun of three capable national or international suppliers.
(b) Services. These include services from consulting firms and individuals, training
institutions and specialists, operation and maintenance of computer and office equipment,
as well as accounting and auditing services. All these services contracts above an
estimated value of US$ 200,000 equivalent (mainly for firms, since no contracts with
individuals are expected to be above this threshold) would be awarded following the
Quality-and-Cost Based selection method (QCBS).  For other contracts below
US$ 200,000 (firms or individuals), the selection methods could be Quality-Based (QBS),
Consultants' Qualifications-Based (CQ), Selection under a Fixed Budget (SFB); or
Least-Cost Selection (LCS).  Single-Source selection (SS) would be used only on
exceptional cases, following agreement with the Bank.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
5.    The Prior Review thresholds are presented below and in Table B. All other contracts not
subject to the Prior Review would be subject to post-review on a random basis during
supervision missions and procurement audits.
(a)  Contracts under Investment Sub-Projects.  All private contracts by the
sub-borrowers (for civil works, goods or services) above an estimated cost of
US$1 million equivalent would have to follow ICB procedures and would be subject to
Prior Review by the Bank and IDA, in accordance with the applicable Guidelines.
(b) Goods. All contracts by PBDAC procured following ICB and NCB above
US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to mandatory Prior Review by the Bank and
IDA, in accordance with the applicable Guidelines.
(c)  Services. All contracts by PBDAC with estimated values above US$50,000 for
individual consultants and US$100,000 for firms would be subject to Prior Review in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines, as well as all contracts awarded under
Single-Seurce (SS) selection procedures.



Annex 9: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                        Page 3
Procurement Responsibilities
6.    The Chairman of PBDAC, as Project Director, would have primary responsibility for
procurement under the project. He would be approving all procurement decisions and signing all
contracts. However, the Project Director would relay on the Project Management Department
(PMD), created in PBDAC for coordination and monitoring of all activities under the project,
which would be in charge of providing support and advice to the Chairman and the carrying out
the procurement processes on a daily basis.
7.    The PMD (created in 1994) would be expanded and substantially strengthened under the
Project, and would receive continuous technical assistance financed by IDA in several key areas.
It would include a PMD Coordinator and a Deputy Coordinator, supported by a small technical
and administrative Front Office. Under the Coordinator/Deputy Coordinator, there would be
four units: Monitoring and Evaluation; Financial Management and Accounting; Institution
Building; and the Agricultural Technology Dissemination Unit. In addition, the PMD would
work as the main counterpart with an international recruited consulting firm that would provide
intensive technical assistance to PBDAC, throughout the project life. Besides the on-the-job
training to be received by working with this international team of expert, PMD's staff would
receive training in their respective areas, both local and abroad, financed by the project
(including procurement).
8.    Regarding the procurement responsibilities, the Front Office would include, as long-term
consultants, two Procurement Specialists and two Procurement Assistants. In addition, the team
of the consulting firm would also include a Procurement Advisor with extensive international
experience to provide guidance to the Front Office (on a part-time basis, with more time
allocated in the first year). This PMD team would be in charge of carrying out all procurement
responsibilities. It would be under the coordination and supervision of the Coordinator and
Deputy Coordinator, who would have to clear all processes and decisions, before sending them to
the Chairman as Project Director. In order to expedite, procurement for some large contracts
(including all ICB for goods and QCBS for consultants), PBDAC would establish special tender
committees to be chaired by the Chairman, and with the Director of the PMD as Secretary.
9.   An independent Procurement Audit would be carried out every 12 months following the
date of effectiveness. This would be done as part of the overall audit of PBDAC to be carried
out by an independent external auditor (private) to be recruited following Bank's Consultant
Guidelines. The main objective of this audit would be to review the procurement, contracting and
implementation processes followed, in order to confirm consistency with the Loan and Credit
Agreements and the Bank' procurement guidelines. The specific purposes would be to:
(i) review all procurement and contracting processes followed;  (ii) verify the technical
compliance, physical completion and price competitiveness of the contracts reviewed;
(iii) determine the consistency with the general expected economy and efficiency principles and
the compliance with the specifications of the Loan and Credit Agreements (LA/CA);
(iv) determine the reasons or causes for identified non-compliance with the LA/CA,
inappropriate practices or questionable decisions and actions; (v) evaluate the quality, timeliness
and reliability of the Bank's reviews and checks to assure that the procurement is carried out in
accordance with the LA/CA; (vi) identify and recommend ways to improve the procurement and
contracting processes.



Page 4                            Annex 9: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
10.  Allocation of proceeds by disbursement categories and percentages financed by the Bank
Loan and IDA Credit are presented in Table C.
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs):
11.  Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs) for:
(a) all sub-loans under US$1,000,000; and
(b) contracts for: (i) goods valued under US$100,000 equivalent; (ii) consulting services
by firms valued under US$100,000 equivalent; and (iii) consulting services by individuals
valued under US$50,000 equivalent. Documentation in support of the SOEs would be
retained by PBDAC at headquarters and made available to Bank supervision missions and
to project auditors.
All other disbursements would be supported by full documentation.
Special Account:
12.  In order to facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, PBDAC would operate
the following accounts opened in the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE), or in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank: (i) a Special Account for the Bank Loan with an authorized allocation of
US$9,000,000 and (ii) a Special Account for the IDA Credit with an authorized allocation of
US$3,000,000. Both amounts are equivalent to the average estimated disbursement for a quarter.
The Special Accounts would be replenished on a monthly basis or when at least one third of the
balance has been withdrawn, whichever comes first.
Special Disbursement Conditions
13.  Disbursements Linked to the Institution Building Plan. Since the implementation of
the Institution Building Plan is an essential element of the project, the disbursements from the
Credit Line would need to keep pace with the progress achieved in the imnplementation of this
Plan and with the improvements in PBDAC's financial performance. The implementation
progress would be measured against the monitorable indicators established for this reform
process as: Tranche 1, Tranche 2, and Tranche 3. The Tranche 1 benchmarks would be
included as part of the conditions for loan and credit effectiveness and the corresponding funds
would be available for PBDAC after the disbursement conditions are met ($75 million from the
loan and $15 million from the credit). Therefore, from the total IBRD loan (US$222.75 million)
and the IDA credit (US$45 million) allocated to the credit line, the Bank would not accept
withdrawal applications:
(a) for Tranche 2: or above US$ 75.0 million from the IBRD loan and US$ 15.0 million
from the IDA credit (or a total combined of US$ 90.0 rnillion), until PBDAC has
complied with the second set of benchmarks (Tranche 2 benchmarks); and



Annex 9: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                       Page 5
(b) for Tranche 3: or above US$ 150.0 million from the IBRD loan and US$ 30.0 million
from the IDA credit (or a total combined of US$ 180.0 million), until PBDAC has
complied with the third set of benchmarks (Tranche 3 benchmarks).
14.  Disbursements Linked to the Loan Portfolio. In addition to the above conditions,
disbursements from the credit line would be also linked to the net increase in the overall
PBDAC's loan portfolio. Total disbursements from the credit line (US$222.75 million IBRD
loan and US$45 million from the IDA credit) would not be allowed to go above 50 percent of the
net increase in the loan portfolio. This would be monitored annually based on the project's
Financial Management Reports (PMR) and confirmed by the annual audit reports to be presented
by the independent external auditors. It was agreed with PBDAC that should disbursements be
higher than 50 percent of the net increase in portfolio reported in an annual audit report, the Bank
would not accept further withdrawal or replenishment applications from the loan and credit
accounts, until PBDAC presents further evidence acceptable to the Bank and IDA that it is in
compliance with this condition.



Page 6                              Annex 9: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 9, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
IExpendftifr _ ategory
1. Contracts under           20.00             423.31                   443.31
Investment Subprojects
(Subloans)                (17.00)           (250.75)                 (267.75)
2. Goods                      10.04    0.90      0.58                    11.88
(8.83)   (0.76)   (0.45)                  (10.04)
3. Services                                     19.96                    19.96
(19.96)                 (19.96)
4. Recurrent Costs                                        1.66           1.66
(0)            (0)
5. Front-end Fee                                 2.25                    2.25
(2.25)                  (2.25)
TOTAL                        30.40     0.90    446.10    1.66           479.06
(25.83)   (0.76)  (273.41)  (0.00)        (300.00)
NOTES:
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.
2 "Other" includes the following:
a. Contracts under investment sub-projects by the sub-borrowers, for less than
US$1 mnillion equivalent, to be procured using standard private commercial practices;
b.  Goods to be procured using iternational and National Shopping procedures;
c. Services, including consultants' services, training and auditing services, by firms or
individuals, to the selected by PBDAC using the QCBS, QBS, CQ, SFB, LCS, or SS
selection methods; and
d. Front-end-Fee to be paid by the Borrower of the IBRD loan to the Bank.
3 "N.B.F." means Not Bank Financed and includes recurrent costs to be covered by PBDAC for salaries
and incentives to staff assigned to the Project.



Annex 9: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                            Page 7
Annex 9, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Contracts under      Above S 1 million           ICB                All contracts
Investment
Subprojects          Less than $1 million   Commercial Practices        None
(Subloans)
2. Goods
Above $ 500,000               ICB             All contracts, for a
(Advertisement in UN    total of about US$10.4
Development Business        million
plus two local
newspapers)
Between $ 100,000 and         NCB             All contracts, for a
$ 500,000              (Advertisement in two    total of about US$ 1.0
local newspapers)         million
Under $100,000               IS/NS                  None
3. Services
Above $ 200,000              QCBS           All contracts for firms
above US$100,000
All contracts for
individuals above
US$ 50,000
Under $ 200,000         QCBS, SFB, LCS,   All single-source
CQ or SS         contracts
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six
months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)



Page 8                            Annex 9: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 9, Table C: Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds
..... - kgo rY          Alntit
1. Sub-loans                         267.75            85 % of the amount disbursed
(222.75 from the loan and   by PBDAC for eligible
45.0 from the credit)          subprojects.
2. Goods (Equipment,                 10.0              100 % of foreign expenditures
software, and materials)         (From the credit)      and ex-factory expenditures;
70 % of other expenditures
3. Consultant Services and           20.0                Estimated as 100% of the
Training.                        (From the credit)            expenditures
Total Project Costs                 297.75
Front-end Fee            2.25
Total                 300.00
Annex 9, Table D: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(IJS$ million equivalent)
IConsltant Se_**es
Expenditueatgz
QCBS   QBS  SFB   LCS           CQ         Other  N.B.F.
A. Firms                 11.00                    2.00    5.00                        18.00
(11.00)                 (2.00)   (5.00)                      (18.00)
B. Individuals                                    1.00    0.96                         1.96
(1.00)   (0.96)                       1.96)
Total                    11.00                    3.00    5.96                         19.96
(11.00)                 (3.00)    5.96)                      a(19.96
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (Contracts above $200,000)
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ  = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of
Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Annex 9: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                              Page 9
TABLE 9-E: PROCUREMENT PLAN
Estimated Schedule (Month/Day/Year)
Description                          Type' Number of  Estimated Cost Procurement Review Pre-qualifled Invitation   Bid   Contract  Contract
Sub-Packages  (US$ '000)     Method   Prior to:   action     to Bid   Opening  Award  Completion
1. Goods
MIS (Hardware/Software)             G         1         10,423.30       ICB      6/1/01    7/1/01     9/1/01    11/201  12/1/01    7/1/04
Vehicles                            G         1          325.30        NCB       2/1/00    2/2/200    3/15/200   5/1/00   6/15/00    7/15/00
Other Office Supplies               G                    133.80       NCB/NS      NA
Communications                      G         3          946.40        NCB      4/15/00    5/15/00    7/1/00   10/15/00  12/1/00    7/1/03
Sub-Total                                             11,828.80
II. Training and Specialized Services
Auditing                            TS         1         4,343.30      QCBS    10/1/99   10/15/99    12/1/99   2/1/00   3/15/00   12/31/03
Accounting Policies, Procedures, etc.  TS      1          532.40       QCBS       1/1/00    2/1/00    3/15/200   5/1/00   6/1/00    6/30/02
Completing Inspection and Control   TS        1          837.90        QCBS      2/1/00    3/1/00     4/15/00   6/1/00   7/1/00    7/31/02
Credit Function Definition and Follow-up  TS  1          126.20         CQ       2/1/00    3/1/00     4/15/00   6/1/00   7/1/00    7/31/02
Credit Policies, Procedures and Manual    TS  1          315.40        QCBS      3/1/00    4/1/00     5/15/00   7/1/00   8/1/00    8/31/02
Preparing Strategic Plan            TS        1          214.60        QCBS      4/1/00    5/1/00     6/15/00   8/1/00   9/1/00    12/30/03
Review of Bank Improvement Program  TS        1          209.50        QCBS      4/1/00    5/1/00     6/15/00   8/1/00   9/1/00    12/30/02
Personnel Policy and Procedures Review   TS   1          264.90        QCBS      1/1/00    2/1/00    3/15/200   5/1/00   6/1/00    6/30/03
Preparing Training Plan             TS        1          103.50        LCS       10/1/99   10/15/99    12/1/99   2/1/00   3/1/00   3/1/00
Feasibility Study and Spin off      TS        1          108.50         CQ       2/1/01    4/1/01     6/1/01    8/1/01   10/1/01   12/31/02
Market Study                        TS        1          137.70         CQ       5/15/00    6/15/00   8/1/00   9/15/00  11/1/00   12/30/01
Rural Banking Study/Market Survey   TS        1          214.50        QCBS    5/15/00    6/15/00     8/1/00   9/15/00  11/1/00   12/30/01
Legal Review                        TS        1          171.60         CQ       10/1/99   10/15/99    12/1/99   2/1/00   3/15/00    4/30/03
Technology and Rural Banking 2/     TS        12         954.40        LCS        NA
Preparing Environmental Impact Manual   TS    1           44.10         CQ        NA      11/15/00     1/1/00   2/15/00   4/1/00    12/30/00
Consultant to Prepare Network Plan  TS        1          209.60        QCBS    10/1/99   10/15/99    12/1/99   2/1/00   3/15/00    3/15/01
MIS Network PlanPrep and Oversight    TS      2          1,293.10      QCBS    10/1/99   10/15/99    12/1/99   2/1/00   3/15/00   12/31/04
Banking and Accounting Assistance   TS        1         2,229.20       QCBS    12/1/99    1/1/00      2/15/00   4/1/00   6/30/00    6/30/04
Project Inplementation Assistance 3/  TS      11         743.20         CQ       12/1/99    1/1/00    2/15/00   4/1/00   6/30/00   12/30/04
Environmental Expert                TS        3          237.90         CQ       12/1/99    1/1/00    2/15/00   4/1/00   6/30/00    6/30/04
Demonstration and Market Promotion 4/   TS    10        3,065.60       QCBS    12/1/99    1/1/00      2/15/00   4/1/00   6/30/00   12/30/04
Training                           TS        8          3,611.60      QCBS    12/1/99    1/1/00      2/15/00   4/1/00   6/30/00   12/30/04
Sub-Total                                            19,968.70
III. Sub-Loans                        SL                 443,310,000       CP
IV. Recurrent Cost                     R                   1,659.70       NA
V. Front-end Fee                                          2,250,000
Total                                                     479,064.30
1/ G = Goods; TS = Training and Specialized Services; SL = Sub-Loans; and R = Recurrent Cost; CP = Commercial Practice.



Page 10                                Annex 9: Procurement and Disbursement Arran;gements
2/ These studies would be designed and formulated according to emerging needs. Procurement type and schedule will be agreed for individual studies during project implementation.
3/ 11 locally recruited consultant wil be hired to assist in the imnplementation, each under independent contract.
4/ PBDAC will enter into separate contracts with MALR, Local Universities and private consultant to conduct demonstration and market promotion in 10 strategic governorates
The above schedule represent the time frame for the first three governorates that such activities would start during the first year of the project implementation.



Annex 10: Project Management Departnent                              Page 1
Annex 10
Egypt: Private Sector and Agricultural Development Project
Inplementation Arrangements: Description of the Project Management Department
(PMD)
1.  Project implementation would be the responsibility of PBDAC and its Chairman
would be the Project Director. Under the direction of the PBDAC Chairman,
coordination of project implementation would be the responsibility of the Project
Management Department (PMD), headed by the Project Coordinator and helped by a
Deputy Project Coordinator. This project implementation unit was established under the
on-going Agricultural Modernization Project and would be considerably strengthened
with staff, training and technical assistance for the purpose of this project. It would
consist of the Front Office of the Project Coordinator and four units: Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E), an Agricultural Technical Unit (ATU), a Financial and Accounting
Unit (FAU) and an Institutional Development Unit (IDU) (See attached organigram). A
Technical Assistance team would also be recruited to assist the PMD with project
execution. There would further be a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) linked to the
PMD to advise on the Agricultural Technology Dissemination and Promotion program
under the project.
27. The teams in the PMD will interact with concerned departments in PBDAC to
ensure that project activities are carried out in a timely manner and to meet the reporting
requirements of PBDAC management and the World Bank The Front Office of the
project coordinator would include the deputy project coordinator, two senior operations
advisors, two technical professionals, a translator and a Procurement Team consisting of
consultant procurement specialists and two staff procurement officers. In addition to
procurement, the Front Office would be responsible for the preparation and translation of
all reports into English for submission to the World Bank. The regular progress reports
include the quarterly implementation progress reports (Project Management Reports
[PMRs]) and a yearly progress report. In addition, with the request for the release of each
of the three tranches, PBDAC would prepare and submit to the Bank a special "tranche
release report". This report would demonstrate that all the benchmarks conditioning the
respective tranche releases had actually been met. A report would also be prepared and
submitted to the World Bank for the mid-term review in FY2002. The Front Office would
further be responsible for all correspondence with the World Bank and prepare ad hoc
information required by the World Bank supervision team. It would further prepare
detailed annual programs for all the project activities and ensure that adequate funding is
provided.
3.   The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&E) would consist of one economist as
head of unit and two data analysts. The unit would be responsible for organizing the
monitoring of all project activities and to evaluate the impact of the project based on
agreed indicators. This would include measurements for the impact of project investment
loans on farmers' and small entrepreneurs' incomes and on employment and the impact
on the institution building plan on PBDAC's operations and financial health as well as
other indicators, particularly those in the Project Design Summary (see Annex 1).



Page 2                                 Annex 10: Project Management Department
4.  The Agricultural Technical Unit (ATU) would consist of a head of the unit and four
technical professionals: in agricultural technologies, agricultural business & food
processing, agricultural extension and, project formulation and group lending. The Unit
would be responsible for implementing the "Agricultural Technology Dissemination and
Promotion" sub-component of the project. In order to help formulate a program, there
would be a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), chaired by the PBDAC chairman and
members would be nominated by him. These would include, as required, experts from
the Ministry of Agriculture, Agricultural Extension Services, Agricultural Research
Council (ARC), Agricultural Mechanization Institute, Institute of Agricultural
Economics, Food Technology Institute, Ministry of hIrigation, Ministry of Environment,
Chamber of Commerce and Private Sector traders, manufacturers and farmers. The TAC
would meet monthly or as required by the Chairman PBDAC to advise on the agricultural
technology dissemination program and its activities. The ATU would act as secretariat
for these meetings. ATU would put together the agricultural technology dissemination
programs and make the arrangements for their execution. They would prepare terms of
reference for any studies or services required for the program and supervise their
execution. The ATU would also define indicators and measure the impact of the program.
5.    The project's Financial and Accounting Unit would be headed by a qualified
Financial and Accounting Officer. This officer would be assisted by one accountant and
one banking specialist as well as two assistants. The accountant would be in charge of
bookkeeping, account preparation and reconciliation (particularly with PBDAC and
BDAC general accounting records). The banking specialist would be in charge of the
daily follow up of the Special Account (into which the I?BRD loan and IDA credit are
advanced) operations, including, transactions and balances, replenishment, control and
financial reporting. The unit would be responsible for maintaining separate project
accounts and arrange annual audits in accordance with the Loan and Credit Agreements.
The unit would arrange withdrawal of funds from the World Bank and arrange for
opening of letters of credit under the project.
6.    The Institutional Development Unit would consist of a head of the unit who
would also be dealing with PBDAC corporate governance and central functions. The unit
would include three additional professionals who would divide the responsibilities of the
Institution Building Plan between them. One would be responsible for financial aspects
of the institution building program, such as financial management, financial resources and
treasury functions. A second person would be responsible for activities grouped under
the general heading of banking, such as banking services, credit, marketing, foreign
exchange operations etc. Finally there would one professional responsible for all aspects
of human resources and training. The unit would be responsible for the implementation
of the Institution Building Program under the project. They would prepare annual
programs in cooperation with concerned PBDAC departments and monitor their
implementation, giving particular attention to the benchmarks for tranche release. They
would work closely with the Technical Assistance Team which would help in all aspects
of project implementation but whose major assignment would be the Institution Building
Program.



Annex 10: Project Management Department                               Page 3
7.    The PMD would be provided with adequate support staff and the project would
finance office equipment and vehicles for the unit to permit frequent contact with the
branch offices, BDACS and village banks and for the implementation of the agricultural
technology dissemination program in the field. The project would further finance office
and vehicle operating costs and incremental staff salaries and allowances, including
sufficient travel allowances to ensure that staff are able to make the necessary field visits.



Page 4                                                                                                             Annex 10: Project Management Department
EGYPT
PRIVATE SECTOR AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Management Department
~~~......................... ...........PROJECTI)IRIICTOR
Chairman EBDAC
PROJECT COORDINATOR
WtCHNICAL'ALVfSORY                                                    Chiefo PofTD                                      TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE UIAWM
COMM fITEE                               ~~~~~~~~~~~DepuQty Coordinattor
2 at opertions advisoms
2 protbassionals
Itranslator
2 procurement staff
suppot staff
MONIT'ORING
EVALUATION
Head of Unit
Loan Analyst
Data Analyst
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL UNIT                                  FINANCIAL & ACCOUNT'ING                                 INSTI'TUTION DEVELOPMEtNT UNIT
UNIT
Head of Unit                                                                                                   Headof Unit: alodaigwtcopregomnc
Agriculturali Engineer                                         FinanicialI&Accounting Officer                                  & central functions
Agrc. Businness-Food Proessing Engineer                        Accounitant Specialist                           Peron in charge of flinancial iiWgmi, treasry, fin. resourcets
Agrie,-EMensioft Specialist                                    Banking Specialist:                              persn in charge of banking services, credt, marketing, forex
Project Formnulation & Group Lending Specialist                Two Assistants                                   Pesnin chiarge ofhbun-an resources & training



Annex 11: Agricultural Technology Dissemination and Promotion         Page 1
Annex 1 1
Egypt: Private Sector and Agricultural Development Project
Agricultural Technology Dissemination and Promotion Sub-Component
Rationale
1.    PBDAC's mission is to support agricultural and rural development in Egypt by
providing a full range of banking services to farmers, agri-businesses and other rural
clients. By supporting credit with technology dissemination and by delivering it in an
effective manner to their client, PBDAC can expect to enhance agricultural productivity
and agri-business profitability while at the same time increase its own business and profit
from new lending for productive investments and by attracting more deposits from their
increased revenues. The validity of this approach is based on the premise that there is a
reserve of improved farming practices and technology which, if adopted by PBDAC's
clients, would give rise to higher productivity in crop production and processing.
2.    Outstanding crop yields and cropping intensity are being achieved in Egypt today
and research, particularly in plant breeding and irrigation development, has played a
major role in this achievement. However, transmission of research findings and
dissemination of new techniques and technologies has lagged behind due to deficiencies
in extension delivery and the dependency and preponderant lack of incentive in pre-
liberalization Egypt. It is therefore accepted that there is a technology reserve which
could be tapped for improved productivity. Such a reserve of practices and technologies
include: better timeliness and thoroughness in land preparation and sowing or planting;
more accurate and measured input use; new varieties such as three-way cross maize
hybrids, new sugar cane and groundnut varieties, etc; farm machinery with more powerful
tractors and better combinations of cultivation and precision seeding implements; better
irrigation techniques with laser leveling, fertigation, trickle or drip and perforated pipe
irrigation systems; new advances in biological pest monitoring and control for vegetables
and cotton; and innovations in post-harvest and processing technologies.
3.    From the on-farm investment point of view, some of the improvement can be
gained from only minor changes in farming practices and systems that can be instilled by
more effective extension with limited cost and risk. Examples are improved varieties,
better timeliness and greater care in seedbed preparation. Other improvements, such as
changes in input use and increased mechanization and better irrigation systems entail
considerable cost and need to be supported by credit. For the medium or large farmer this
is not generally a problem. For the small farmer, however, the principal constraints are
absolute shortage of resources; advantage can be taken of larger scale production
innovations and marketing opportunities only on a group basis. hi this regard, the limited
experience in Egypt of genuine co-operation and more informal methods of association
militate against the adoption of ideas that are important for small farmers.



Page 2                  Annex 11: Agricultural Technology Dissemination and Promotion
4.    Off farm value added, marketing opportunities and exports of agricultural
commodities could be increased and waste and post harvest losses could be reduced
through small-scale investments such as in oil extraction, fruit and vegetable processing,
dairy facilities, cold storage and transportation, grading and packing houses, etc.
Investments by men and women in small businesses can help increase value added in
rural areas and lead to increased family incomes.
Objective.
5.   The objectives of the Agricultural Technology Dissemination and Promotion
Program would be:
*  Communicate improved agricultural and agri-business technologies, and better
PBDAC products and services to present and prospective clients;
* Involve the private sector, the Ministry of Agriculture and PBDAC staff in better
meeting the needs of farmers and small businesses in order to increase clients'
income;
 Identify potential rural demands and improve the marketing of PBDAC's products
and services.
Description of Sub-Component.
6.     The agricultural technology dissemination and promotion program would need
to be adjusted in line with the demand from the clients and the need of the BDACs at any
particular point in time. The program and the specific subject matter to be disseminated
can therefore not be defined in advance. At this stage, the program is envisaged to
include the following kind of activities:
* events in the field to demonstrate new techniques and technologies;
* communications of messages through mass media;
*  advice on group formation and management for farmer associations and societies;
* assistance with the preparation of project proposals.
7.    The envisaged field events would be defined as "mini agricultural fairs" where
interested parties such as PBDAC, MOA and the private sector (suppliers of equipment
and inputs, traders etc.) would show what is available to improve farming or for setting
up small businesses and increase incomes. At the same time, PBDAC would make
information available on the banking services offered. The site selected for the event
would be conveniently located for the clients and potential clients to visit (perhaps a
BDCA or village Bank owned open storage area) and would equally have to be selected
to be convenient for the participants and the techniques and technologies to be
demonstrated. Relevant components of the fair would be arranged: such as bank booth
for client credit, savings etc; extension service demonstration; private sector participation
with products, exhibits of new technique, technology etc. The events would be advertised
and might be promoted through VIP participation. After each event the results would be
evaluated and used for improving the impact of future events.



Annex 11: Agricultural Technology Dissemination and Promotion        Page 3
8.    The mini fair event is one way of communicating messages and has the advantage
of the presence of the potential clients but the disadvantage of its limitation in scale.
Communication through mass media has the opposite characteristics (large scale, but no
client presence) and therefore complements the field event very well. Radio and
television has a wide coverage in Egypt and the usage of popular programs for insertion
of promotional messages has the potential of success. For example, MOA's SER EL
ARD program with a capsuled message targeted for agricultural audiences over the past
years has been very popular and is viewed by many of PBDAC's clients and prospective
clients nationwide. Also, financial markets and financial services are areas of rapidly
expanding interest in Egypt. There are significant plans for TV and other educational
programs on these topics. PBDAC could benefit from general educational programs by
adding its own message on its services and to attract savings and deposits. Indicators
would be established and each campaign would be evaluated for its success.
9.   It was mentioned above that for the small farmer, because of his absolute shortage
of resources, advantage can be taken of larger scale production innovations and marketing
opportunities only on a group basis. This is true also for many men and women who
want to set up a small business. Yet these people constitute a large potential clientele for
investrnent lending. PBDAC would take advantage of experience gained in Egypt and
elsewhere to date in group lending. The bank would promote new technologies and
extend its business to small farmers and entrepreneurs, men and women, by marketing
this idea and providing advice to interested groups. A study would be carried out for this
purpose and would provide guidelines to the BDACs on good group lending practices and
procedures, including lending to informal groups. Training in group lending would then
be arranged for a few staff in each BDAC.
10.   Poor preparation of investment projects increases the risk for both borrower and
lender. To help ensure the successful application of appropriate technologies PBDAC
will provide assistance with the preparation of investment proposals. It is envisaged that
this service be closely linked with PBDAC's loan appraisal and approval process for the
project.
Organization
11. The agricultural technology dissemination and promotion program would be
implemented by a small team of five professional people who would form an
Agricultural Technical Unit (ATU) within the Project Management Departmnent (PMD).
These would include one head of the unit, one agricultural engineer, one agri-business &
food processing engineer, one agricultural extension specialist and one specialist on
project formulation and group lending. A Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), chaired
by the Chairman, PBDAC, would be established to help formulate the program. Members
of the TAC would be nominated by the Chairman PBDAC and include, as required,
experts from Ministry of Agriculture, Agricultural Extension Services, Agricultural
Research Council (ARC), Agricultural Mechanization Institute, Institute of Agricultural
Economics, Food Technology Institute, Ministry of Irrigation, Ministry of Environment,
Chamber of Commerce and Private Sector traders, manufacturers and farmers. The TAC
would meet monthly or as required by the Chairman PBDAC to advise on the agricultural



Page 4                   Annex I 1: Agricultural Technology Dissemination and Promotion
technology dissemination program and its activities. The ATU would act as secretariat
for these meetings. ATU would put together the agricultural technology dissemination
programs and make the arrangements for their execution. They would prepare terms of
reference for any studies or services required for the program and supervise their
execution. The ATU would also define indicators and measure the impact of the program.
Financing
12. The project would provide finance for mini-fairs, publicity campaigns and other
events under this component. It would provide necessary outside expertise and technical
assistance to define and carry out the program and for staff training. The project would
fiurther provide office equipment for project staff and vehicles permitting frequent visits
to the field and participation in project events, as well as additional staff salaries and
allowances, plus vehicle and office operating costs. Total cost for the component would
be LE 14 million (US$4M). Detailed cost estimates are in COSTAB table 205 included
in the Project Files.



Annex 12: Project Processing Budget and Schedule                           Page 1
Annex 12
Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned     Actual
A. Project Budget                                   445,000     904,000
B. Project Schedule                                  Plarmed     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       II months   15 months
First Bank mission (identification)                10/97       10/97
Appraisal mission departure                        9/98       3/20/99
Negotiations                                       5/9/99     5/23/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     1/31/00
Prepared by: PBDAC with assistance of FAO/CP and
DFC consultants hired by Bank.
Preparation Assistance: FAO/WB Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) and Spanish Consultant
Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project:
Guzman P. Garcia-Rivero, MNSRE                      Co-Task Team Leader,
Principal Operations Officer
Victor Agius, MNSPF                                 Co-Task Team Leader,
Principal Financial Specialist
Samia Msadek, MNSRE                             Financial Management Specialist
Alain Vedrenne-Lacombe, FSD                       Principal Financial Specialist
Hans Jurgen Gruss                                       Chief Counsel
Ferid Belhaj, LEGMN                                     Legal Counsel
Jean-Francois Barres, MNCYE                     Principal Agricultural Economist
Bjom Larsen, MNSRE                                 Environmental Economnist
Arbi Ben-Achour, MNSED                               Senior Social Scientist
Elisabeth Sherwood, MNSPF                             Operations Analyst
Peer Reviewers
Carlos Cuevas, AFTPl                              Principal Financial Specialist
Laura Tuck, ECSSD                                       Sector Leader
Khalid Siraj, FSD                                      Principal Advisor
Jacob Yaron, PSDSE                                      Senior Advisor
Consultants
Nirmala Reddy                                         Banking Specialist
Harald Stier                                 Sr. Agricultural Economist, former TTL
Wessim Turki                                    Financial Management Specialist
Mohammed Usman                                      Agricultural Economist
Kalpathi Venkatraman                            Operations Specialist, former TTL
Michael Jordan                                      Senior Partner, DFC Ltd.
Youssef Debbarh                                     Director, DFC Morocco



Annex 13: Documents in Project File                                       Page 1
Annex 13
Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Documents in the Project File
1.   Projects' Social Assessment - (MNSED - Feb. 26, 1999)
2.   PBDAC Strategy Statement and Institution Building Plan - (DFC - March 31, 1999)
3.   PBDAC Business Plan (DFC - March 31, 1999)
4.   PBDAC Financial Projections (DFC - March 31, 1999)
5.   PBDAC's Credit Operations (Ms. N. Reddy - May 6, 1999)
6.   Agricultural Sector in Egypt: Brief Analysis
7.   Crop Budgets, Farm Models and Agri-Business Models
8.   Detailed Project Cost Tables (Project Team - May 10, 1999)
9.   Detailed Analysis of PBDAC's financial statement and projections
(Project Team -May 10, 1999)
10. Review of the audited financial statements of the 17 BDACs for FY98
(J. Bouraoui & Co., - Feb 99)
11. Financial Management Review of PBDAC (J. Bouraoui & Co., - Dec. 98)
12. Financial Management study of PBDAC and three BDACs 1998
(Zarrouk Khaled and Co., - October 1998)
13. Portfolio Review of four BDACs 1999 (Zarrouk Khaled and Co. - January 20, 1999)
14. PBDAC's Manual for Credit and Financial Policies and Procedures - May 29, 97.
15.  PBDAC's Six Year Strategic Plan, FY1999 through FY2004 (July 1, 1998 -
June 30, 2004) -May 1998.
16. Fiscal lmpact of the Project - (Project Team - May 30, 1999).



Annex 14: Statements of Loans and Credits                                                                                                            Page 1
Annex 14
Egypt: Private Sector Development and Agriculture Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations Portfolio
As of 31-May-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed       Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 81
Active Projects
EG-PE-40858     1999                                    SOHAG RURAL DEV.                         0.00       25.00        0.00              25.20        0.00        0.00
EG-PE-41410     1999   GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT              P. S. REHAB. III                       120.00        0.00        0.00             120.00        1.27        0.00
EG-PE-50484     1999   GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT              SEC EDUC ENH PROG                        0.00       50.00        0.00              48.51        0.00        0.00
EG-PE-45175     1998   GOVERNMENT OP EGYPT              HEALTH SECTOR                            0.00       90.00        0.00              84.59       -1.73        0.00
EG-PE-49166     1998                                    EAST DELTA AG.SERV.                      0.00       15.00        0.00              14.64        2.21        0.00
EG-PE-54958     1998   GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT              POLLUTION ABATEMENT                     20.00       15.00        0.00              34.77        1.40        0.00
EG-PE-57704     1998   GOVERNMENT                       PORT SECTOR REFORM                       0.00        2.00        0.00               2.02        1.01        0.00
EG-PE-5169      1997   GOE                              ED.ENHANCEMENT PROG.                     0.00       75.00        0.00              65.90       24.33        8.43
EG-PE-43102     1996   GOVERNMENT                       SOCIAL PUND II                           0.00      120.00        0.00              26.49        4.36        0.00
EG-PE-5163      1996   GOE                              POPULATION                               0.00       17.20        0.00              14.96        8.12        -.58
EG-PE-5173      1995   MPWR                             EGYPT IRRIGATION IMP                    26.70       53.30        0.00              71.30       26.82        0.00
EG-PE-5157      1994   GOE/PBDAC                        AGRICULTURAL MODERNI                    54.00       67.00        0.00              11.59      -31.40        0.00
EG-PE-5153      1993   GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT              MATRUH RESOURCE MANA                     0.00       22.00        0.00              12.56        8.25        -.62
EG-PE-5161      1993   GOE                              BASIC EDUCATION PROJ                     0.00       55.50        0.00              14.38       13.40         .80
EG-PE-5168      1993   GOVERNMENT                       PVT SEC TOURISM INP & ENV              260.00        0.00      188.00              19.79       70.85        1.05
EG-PE-5146      1992   GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT              NATIONAL DRAINAGE                       45.00       75.00        0.00              17.93        -.46        0.00
EG-PE-5152      19.92   GOVERNMENT                      SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONT                     0.00       26.84        0.00              16.40       14.52        3.74
EG-PE-5111      1991   EGPC                             GAS INVESTMENT PROJE                    84.00        0.00        0.00               4.58        4.58        0.00
Total                                                                                          609.70      708.84      188.00             605.61      147.53       12.82
Active Projects      Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                510.42            3,621.14            4,131.56
of which has been repaid:                 13.53            2,088.26           2,101.79
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              1,117.01            1,538.63            2,655.64
Amount sold                     :                 0.00                7.48                7.48
Of which repaid              :                0.00                7.48                7.48
Total Undisbursed               :              605.61                 2.23             607.84
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Apr-99.



Page 2                                         Annex 14: Statements of Loans and Credits
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1982/88               Luxor Hotel             0.00     .46    0.00    0.00    0.00     .46    0.00    0.00
1983/91/94/92/96/98   ANSDK                  74.29   22.74    0.00   50.00   14.29   19.85    0.00    0.00
1986/88/92            Meleiha Oil             0.00   30.82    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                  Misr Compressor         9.70    3.77    0.00    0.00    9.70    3.77    0.00    0.00
1992/97/98            Carbon Black-EGT       16.00    2.96    0.00    0.00    8.50    2.96    0.00    0.00
1993                  Cmrcl Intl Bank         0.00   15.59    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.59    0.00    0.00
1994                  Club Ras Soma           4.65    2.40    0.00    0.00    4.65    2.37    0.00    0.00
1994/96/99            Abu Soma Develop        0.00    1.49    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.12    0.00    0.00
1996                  Apache Corp.            0.00    9.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.33    0.00    0.00
1996                  Orix Leasing EGT        0.00     .89    0.00    0.00    0.00     .89    0.00    0.00
1997                  Egypt Trust             0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  ECC                    35.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  MGDK                    4.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.47    0.00    0.00
1997                  UNI                     5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/99               Orascom                20.00    4.85    0.00    0.00   16.00    4.85    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                 168.64  101.80    0.00   50.00   73.14   67.66    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equitv  Quasi  Partic
1999                  CIB L&G LIFE            0.00    1.77    0.00    0.00
1999                  HCSI                    0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00
1996                  ORIX LEASING EGT        5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  UNIPAK-NILE             0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
Total Pending Commitment:          5.00    3.17    0.00    5.00



Annex 15: Country at a Glance                                                                                                  Page 1
Egypt, Arab Rep. at a glance                                                              9/18/98
POVERT  and OCIAL                                          &Nth MId11le-
Egypt    Attca  Income Development diamond*
'1997
Population, mid-year.(mf~/fS           ~.                     263       285                 Life expectancy
GOP per capilta Atlas metod, U0SI 1.80                       2,060     10,230
GNP (Alsm twol .SMlonsw7.o83                                          2,1
A~verage arinual growth, l1991-97I
Population f%)                                     .~ 20       2.3       12
Labor ~~~~~ (%)                 2,8~~~~~.    3.2    1.3 ~~~~ GNP                            Gross
per           --primary
Most reent estmltot (latest yeravaIlatble, 91?                                   capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% 0fpopulation below nationsl poverty line)
Urban population (% of total popplelionr)            4-8       87        42I
Lif xecac at birth (years                            86       657        69.
Infant mortality, (pr1,0001 ebirths                  51        48        36
Cldantrtioni (% of rhildrirn une  )9                       .       .,,Access to safe water
Gros pimay erolmen (%of chol-ge apuat on) 100     974*~              -Egypt, Arab Rep.
Male                               107      ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~102  116  Lower-middle-incomegrp
KEY ECONOMIC RATOS n   OGTEMTEQ
GDP (,US$ bilAUons)    13.4    30       16170       I~~~~~5    Economic ratios'
Gross domestic investment/GOP              28.4    23.7       W6.      17                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/0OP          22.3    15.7       20.2     20.2
Gross domestic savings/GOP                 16.7    13.8       10.8     13.0
Gr-oss national savings/GOP                   .        ..     15.8      18.8s
Current account balance/GOP               -0.2    -9.4         1.6       OA      Domestic    -nvtmt
Inteetpaymenits/GOP                         0.5      2.4       1.5      1.0    Iavingsmc ht
Total ~debtlGDP                            47,6    84.8       45.3     39.7     Saig
Total dbt servicelexports                   6.4      8,4      11.5       8.9~
Present Value of debt/GOP                     ..W 09
Present value of debt/exports                 .        .     100
Indebtedness
(aveage annual grwh
GOP           7.1      4.0      5.0       s.s      5,2        -"'~~~~-Egypt, Arab Rep.
GNP per capita                     3.7      2.3      3.8       3.1      4.0              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and serVices      2,7      6.9      1.5       2.4     10.4A      _______________
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output end Investment(%
(% of GOP)                                                                       1
Agriculture                                28.3    20.8       17.3      17.7
Industry                                   26.2    26.8       31.6     31.8 
Manufacturing                            16.1    13.3       24.3      25.294 9                              96    7
Services                                   45.5    52.4       51.1     50.5    .15
Private consumption                        58.5    69.6       78.8     76.8   -30 
General government consumption             24.8    16.5       10.4     10.2                    GI      -    GD
Imports of goods and services              34.0    25.6       26.0     24.9                    OD 1o
(average anual growth)1976486  1987-97             1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports(%
(Avecltrae annual8 g11o3.4h)
Industry                                    8.4      4.5       4.9      4.6
Manufacturing                               ..     4.9       6.9       8.3       r
Services                                    9.7      3.8       5.6       6.4
Private consumption                         6.2      4.7       3.6       3.9    .5          93
General government consumption              5.0      0.5       2.4       4.8 
Gross domestic investment                   6.9    -0.4        9.7     10.4   .10'
Imports of goods and services               3.2      2.4       1.6       1.9           -'Exports            l mports
Gross national product                      6.4      4.4       5.5       6.1   I___________________
Note 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-roup average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 30298
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PRIVATE SECTOR AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRINCIPAL AND GOVERNORATE BANKS FOR DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
PRINCIPAL AND GOVERNORATE                      GOVERNORATE BANKS
BANKS FOR DEVELOPMENT AND                      FOR DEVELOPMENT AND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT:                           AGRICULTURAL CREDIT:
s BDACs                                              1. Damietta        10. Giza                                  MAIN ROADS
2. Kafr el Sheikh   11. El Fayoum                            SECONDARY ROADS
PBDAC                                    3. Gharbiya         12. Beni SuefSEODR RAS
4. Beheira         13. El Minya                              TRACKS
5. Dakahliya       14. Assiut
o       SELECTED CITIES & TOWNS                     6. Sharkiya        15. Sohag                                  RIVERS
7. Menoufiya       16. Qena
et      NATIONAL CAPITAL                             8     Ismailiya    17 Aswan                                  WADIS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                    9. Qaliubiya
0         10'0        200 Kilometers
MJAasa Matruf                oet0Kor2b~E                                        This map was produced by the
k                             ..,..  _    ____
-/ -,                                                                     d." jiiSS0000\000000000iSi ( iesff$d-SlS~l-liM --i  iN 0OfS iViSS00ViiV0iiV0idjat it  Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
,,  a'.  ,  ,,,~..."."-'-"    ,... The boundaries, colors, denominations
Shs  elK    "'  4      a.4~mailiya               and anyother information shownon
thais map do not imply, an thn port of
/ /,  . ,-:  -  .  3 .,%,j ,, ,,,,,  The World Bank Group, any judgment
-30                                                                     \ / '  0  :''t>-. G  ' ..               an the legal status of any territory, or
Gia t        Suez?              0'       any endorsement or acceptance of
Helwan    /                       sucn boundaries.
Siwat'                          ,2_
<:    I   j ---s              oo                 <  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6sGk&iSSt09vgb 
>  !   '   XBawiti  El Minya                                                           D Is '-ri0Pi  SAUDI
CD     !                     ss              X                 Mallawi                     ''     "< a,  a,Hurghad               ARABIA
_ | i- - / w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'bub                                       ,D    Hur hada  
Qasr                       Assi
Farafra                         ,i
Girga         gl.en                                                 2'
-26  |                 .                          El Qasr                                 'Mi4> e          a,                                   26'
a",utS       ,.i>tsSEl Kharga             Luxor
Met  '.               Ei l -arg      
6Awn
-22'   1 _                                                                       <.' 2
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S / U-D  A  N
26'                                          30        ,                                  34'
JUNE 1999



