Report No. PID7086
Project Name                     Egypt-Private Sector and Agricultural (+)
Development Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Project ID                       EGPE53832
Borrower                         IDA Credit             Arab Republic of Egypt
IBRD Loan              Principal Bank for
Development and
Agricultural Credit
(PBDAC)
Implementing Agencies            Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit
(PBDAC)
Contact Dr. Hassan Khedr, Chairman,
Principal Bank for
Development and Agricultural Credit
110 Kasr El-Aini
Street, Cairo, Egypt
Tel +20-2-355-1204
Fax +20-2-354-8337
Date this PID prepared           November 10, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         February 1999
Projected Board Date             May 1999
Background
1.      The Egyptian agricultural sector contributes to about 20t
of GDP, a similar share to the national exports and accounts for nearly 40t of
employment in the country. More broadly defined, agriculture provides the
basis of the economy of rural Egypt, home of just over 50t of the population.
Following decades of a state-controlled economy with heavy interventions
across all sectors, the government has embarked on a program of economic
reforms, including liberalization of land tenure, cropping patterns, prices,
input supply and marketing, as well as foreign trade. Although more remains
to be done, these reforms have provided the basis for market-based growth in
the country. In terms of the agricultural sector, soils are fertile, almost
all irrigated land is double cropped and yields are among the highest in the
world for most crops. Although water availability is a major constraint, in
addition to some water quality issues, water resources are less a constraint
than elsewhere in the region. Egyptian agriculture has a clear comparative
advantage (especially in cotton, horticultural products and wheat) and, if the
economic liberalization reforms are sustained, the agricultural sector is
well-placed for continued expansion and increases in productivity. As a
result, the role of the private sector in these activities has recently
expanded and will definitely play a pivotal role in the future.
2.      The liberalization measures in the agricultural sector
were not complemented by similar initiatives in the rural financial sector,
which remained characterized by directed credit and below market interest
rates. As a result, commercial banks have had few incentives to expand their



activities outside the urban areas. There appears to be a willingness on the
part of the government to change this situation and introduce policy changes
leading to a greater liberalization. Moreover, the increased use of
agricultural machinery and the expansion of the agro-processing activities
have resulted in a growing demand for medium and long-term credit, which is
providing and additional opportunity for the proposed project to make a real
contribution to agriculture and rural development.
Project Objectives.
3.      The main developmental objectives to be addressed by the
project would be to: (i) promote productive investment in the sector, mainly
in the small and medium-scale private farms and related agri-businesses, and
in support of economically-viable and environmentally-sustainable enterprises;
(ii) strengthen the financial and institutional viability of the Principal
Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC), and its subordinated
regional banks (BDACs), so that they can become effective rural financial
intermediaries providing a wide range of banking services and operating as
more autonomous, self-sustainable and financially-viable rural banking
institutions, managed according to commercial rules, and with expanded
institutional capacity to contribute to the development of a
internationally-integrated economy; (iii) expand technology dissemination in
agriculture to diversify production and enhance productivity and promote
value-added activities; and (iv) generate employment and increase incomes in
rural Egypt, and expand national exports.
Project Description
4.      The proposed project would have the following main
components: (a) a line of credit, to PBDAC, for on-lending to viable rural
and agri-business commercial activities; and (b) institutional development to
strengthen PBDAC as a commercial banking institution, as well as to improve
the support services needed for the dissemination of improved technologies in
support of its credit operations.
5.      The line of credit, with market-compatible interest rates,
would be available to finance sound agricultural and agri-business activities,
focusing on the improvement of farming practices, as well as processing and
marketing.   The project would assist farmers to improved technological
packages including land leveling, water saving irrigation systems, machinery,
inputs and advisory services. Importers and local equipment manufacturers
would be eligible to borrow foreign exchange to import appropriate machinery
and other inputs. Farmers and mechanized services providers would also be
eligible to borrow for purchasing improved technology such as laser levelers,
drip and sprinkle irrigation systems, rice transplanters, combines, seed and
fertilizer drills, etc. Given the small-size holdings which characterize the
Egyptian farming sector, the provision of custom mechanized services is
considered key to modernizing farming activities. Farmers already use such
custom services offered by other farmers, entrepreneurs or cooperatives to
supplement their own machinery. The credit line may also finance private
sector investments in storage, transportation, packing, grading and processing
facilities, in line with the objectives of increasing productivity and
competitiveness in the sector, as well as generate employment and increase
levels of rural income.
-2-



6.      The institution development component would focus mainly
on the strengthening of PBDAC as the main rural banking institution in the
country. Consistent with its strategy to liberalize the economy and to free
up the financial sector, Government has embarked on a program to transform
PBDAC from being essentially a monolithic agricultural development agency
operating according to a state plan, into an autonomous commercially-operated
rural public bank. The project would help PBDAC to develop into a financially
sound, and profitable, financial intermediary that is able to offer a broad
range of banking services throughout Egypt, in accordance to market rules.
Project Cost and Financing.
7.      The total cost of the project presently estimated at
US$ 640 million, which would be financed through a US$ 75 million IDA credit
and a US$ 225 million IBRD loan, totaling US$ 300 million in financing from
the World Bank Group. The remainder would be financed by PBDAC through its
normal banking operations on the domestic market, and by the beneficiaries
through their own cash contributions to the cost of the individual
subprojects.
Implementation.
8.      The IBRD loan would be lent directly to the PBDAC, with
guarantee from the Government of Egypt (GOE), and the IDA credit would be
passed on to PBDAC by the Government. The present Project Management
Department (PMD), which is located in the PBDAC to coordinate the ongoing
Agricultural Modernization Project (Loan 3719-EGT/Credit 2585-EGT), would be
further strengthened through training and office technology to implement and
monitor the progress of the project. The Chairman of the PBDAC would function
as the Project Director and he would be assisted in the day-to-day management
of the project by a Project Coordinator and high level external technical
assistance.
Sustainability.
9.      Sustainability would be determined mainly by the success
in: (i) increasing the autonomy of PBDAC, to be able to determine the
appropriate price for its products, based on commercial considerations in tune
with the market, and leading to the generation of an adequate level of
profits; (ii) the internal strengthening of PBDAC, to increase its efficiency
and reducing its overall costs; (iii) separating the banking and non-banking
activities, transferring some of these to other public agencies or divesting
them to the private sector; (iv) improving in PBDAC's capacity for subproject
evaluation and follow-up, ensuring the viability of individual sub-loans
financed and their timely repayment; and (v) enhancing in the overall
institutional management, supported by modern accounting and internal control
systems, in accordance to international standards.
Lessons Learned From Past Operations In the Rural Finance Sector in Egypt.
10.     World Bank experience in the rural finance sector in Egypt
indicates that: (a) complex projects and projects lacking adequate
preparation have little chance of success or need extensive restructuring;
(b) project administration details need to be appraised and agreed at
negotiations;   (c) sub-sector reviews are necessary pre-condition for
- 3 -



concentrated lending particularly in a distorted environment where financial
and economic indicators diverge; (d) sub-project appraisal must be very
thorough and financial intermediaries need further improvement in their
analytical skills to evaluate subprojects; (e) it is important to ensure
selection of high quality technical assistance (TA), otherwise there will be
strong internal resistance and the program may fail to produce the intended
benefits; (f) foreign exchange risks assumed by executing agencies lacking
the right skills and experience, or its transfer to sub-borrowers without a
natural hedge, lead to bankruptcies and poor quality portfolios among
financial intermediaries; (g) it is essential to pay attention to the lending
terms and the interest spreads relative to other competitive sources of funds,
to assure an adequate level of profits while maintaining competitiveness with
the prevailing market conditions; (h) institution strengthening and policy
changes take relatively longer time in order to achieve the intended results;
(i) implementation arrangements should be as simple as possible, minimizing
the number of executing agencies; and (j) improving rural income and
employment requires a coordinated effort between rural credit institutions and
both public and private technical advisory and support services.
Rationale for Bank Involvement.
11.     The rationale for, and value-added of Bank support to this
sector would be in the form of transfer of the Bank's international experience
under similar projects. The Bank has also financed several projects with
rural finance components in Egypt in the past and the lessons learned will
serve to mitigate past mistakes and render the project more efficient. The
Bank's present involvement in the rural finance sector and its technical
contribution is valued significantly, given the recent growth in rural credit
demand at the same time of shrinking direct public investment in agriculture.
The Bank has been instrumental through its financial operations in expanding
private investment in small-and medium scale rural enterprises. Through the
proposed project, the Bank would contribute to necessary policy changes and
institution building to permit the development of a sound rural financial
intermediary, which will have a pivotal role in the future development of the
sector.
Environmental Aspects.
12.     The project has been classified in category B.    The
proposed project would finance improved agricultural practices that would have
environmental benefits in terms of reducing consumption of water, fertilizers
and pesticides. Any proposals for sub-projects involving substantial
horizontal expansion should be accompanied by a formal environmental
assessment. A satisfactory mitigation plan would be a condition for financing
in case of negative environmental implications. Also, sub-projects in rural
enterprises, if they are likely to have adverse environmental impact, would
incorporate an environmental mitigation plan. Already under the Agricultural
Modernization Project, an Environmental Unit has been established in the PBDAC
and environmental training of PBDAC's staff has been provided, which enable
them to evaluate environmental impact of sub-projects to be financed by the
institution. The proposed project would provide additional support to the
Environmental Unit of the PBDAC, to make it fully operational and ensure the
subprojects conform to Egypt's environmental regulations, and in accordance to
Bank's standards and policies.
-4-



Program Objective Category.
13.     The project would support private sector development by
strengthening rural financial services and providing finance for private
sector investments in rural areas. It would also contribute to promote
economic growth, increase balance of trade, raise incomes and generate
employment in rural areas. Indirectly, it would help rising standards of
living in rural areas and reducing poverty. It would also contribute to
improve natural resources management and promote environmentally-sound
economic activities.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 27, 1998.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



