                       Document of
                     The World Bank




                                                    Report No: 31765

         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                   (SCL-45000 IDA-32540)

                           ON

                    LOAN AND CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF
   US$ 225.0 MILLION AND US$ 75.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                         TO THE

                ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                          FOR A

PRIVATE SECTOR AND A GRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                       March __, 2005

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective March 10, 2005)

                   Currency Unit = Egyptian Pounds (LE)
                         LE 6.00 = US$ 1.00
                       US$ 1.00 = LE 6.00

                         FISCAL YEAR
                      July 1  to   June 30

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



AMP          Agricultural Modernization Project
BDAC         Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (regional banks)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
GOE          Government of Egypt
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
MENA         Middle-East and North Africa Region
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PBDAC        Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PMD          Project Management Department
PSADP        Private Sector Agricultural Development Project
QSA5         Quality of Supervision Assessment




                  Vice President:    Christiaan Poortman
              Country Director:      Emmanuel Mbi
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Jamal Al-Kibbi

                               EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF
                    Egypt - Private Sector and Agriculture Development


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
6. Sustainability                                                                  7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26

Project ID: P053832                                                  Project Name: Egypt - Private Sector and Agriculture
                                                                     Development
Team Leader: Jamal Al-Kibbi                                          TL Unit: MNC03
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 17, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Egypt - Private Sector and Agriculture                   L/C/TF Number: SCL-45000; IDA-32540
                            Development
   Country/Department: ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                             Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural marketing and trade (45%); General agriculture, fishing
                            and forestry sector (45%); Banking (8%); Central government
                            administration (2%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Rural markets (P); State
                            enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Small and
                            medium enterprise support (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/08/1998                                     Effective: 12/22/1999                03/22/2001
     Appraisal: 03/19/1999                                         MTR: 06/01/2002
      Approval: 06/22/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2006                 08/19/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PBDAC/PRINCIPAL BANK OF DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTUAL
                                           CREDIT (PBDAC)
                      Other Partners:      None

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Emmanuel Mbi                                   Khalid Ikram
Sector Manager:                 NA                                             Doris Kohn
Team Leader at ICR:             Jamal Al-Kibbi
ICR Primary Author:             Jamal Al-Kibbi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HU
                      Sustainability:      HUN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          HU


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HU
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
QSA5 First Stage: 2     -     QSA5 Second Stage:2

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Private Sector Agricultural Development Project (PSADP) sought to support the Government of
Egypt's (GOE) continuing policies of encouraging broad-based private sector led growth in order to meet
the need for increased employment opportunities and income for a rapidly growing population. The
specific development objectives of the PSADP were to: (i) promote rural economic development, leading to
increased income and employment in rural Egypt; and (ii) strengthen financial and institutional viability of
Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC), a public sector institution that is, in
effect, the main institution providing financial services in rural Egypt. PSADP proposed to support these
objectives by: (i) improving financial intermediation in rural areas; (ii) improving the availability of term
investment funds through a line of credit; and (iii) assisting to transform PBDAC from a diverse
agricultural development agency with questionable viability to a financially viable rural financial
intermediary.

In the Bank's 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) four core themes1 were identified to assist the GOE
with its goal of reducing unemployment and raising living standards. PSADP should have contributed to
each of these themes. The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) concludes that PSADP's objectives
and components were consistent with the strategy established in the CAS, and are clear and realistic given
adequate preparation and ongoing inputs including the Agricultural Modernisation Project (AMP) then
under implementation by PBDAC. The ICR notes however, that the PSADP development objectives were
designed outside a broader ranging financial sector reform program which meant that it did not have the
support of a broad overall sectoral and/or macroeconomic program of reforms.

As concluded by three previous Bank reviews of the project , the ICR also concludes that PSADP was a
                                                                2


complex and ambitious project considering (i) the lack of capacity and poor commitment of the
implementing agency; (ii) excessive conditionality to be met prior to negotiations, Board presentation,
effectiveness, and release of resource tranches; (iii) the level and scale of the proposed institutional
development intervention; (iv) sub-loan documentation requirements given the nature and wide diversity of
targeted rural borrowers.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not revised

3.3 Original Components:
The original components comprised:
Component 1: Line of credit (Total cost $443.31 million including: IBRD loan $222.75 million; and IDA
credit $45.0 million equivalent).

_________________________________
1/ These four themes were: (i) export development; (ii) private sector led growth including assisting in financial
sector development; (iii) development of human resources; and (iv) natural resource management.

2/ (i) Project Review, Private Sector Agricultural Development Project, Arab Republic of Egypt, Financial Sector
Operations and Policy Department, BFR Group, October 15, 2002; (ii) QAG Quality Of Supervision Review
(QSA5), First Stage Review, Assessment Date September 12, 2002; (iii) QAG Quality Of Supervision Review
(QSA5), Second Stage Review, Assessment Date April 22, 2003.




                                                        - 2 -

Loans to sub-borrowers were to finance all categories of agricultural and rural investment, including
investment in transportation, storage, and trading of agricultural inputs or products, irrigation investments,
small industry and commerce. Maximum sub-loan size was not to exceed $3 million to any sub-borrower
or group of sub-borrowers. Items not covered by the loan included; (i) seasonal crop loans for less than
one year; (ii) land acquisition; (iii) purchase and dealing with pesticides; and (iv) refrigeration and cooling
units using ozone-depleting substances.

Component 2: Institutional Building (Total cost $33.5 million including an IDA credit $30.0 million
equivalent)

The component was divided into five sub-components: (i) Independent audit of PBDAC ($4.5 million
equivalent); (ii) Operations and management assistance ($9.6 million equivalent); (iii) Information
technology (total cost $13.5 million; IDA credit $11.7 million equivalent); (iv) Agriculture technology
dissemination and promotion ($4 million equivalent); and (v) Project Management Department (PMD)
($0.4 million equivalent).

The two components show the depth and scale of the project's proposed intervention. There is no doubt
that the successful implementation of both components would have had a positive impact on the sector
generally and PBDAC in particular and it would have ensured that the development objective was achieved.
However, as was concluded by other project reviews, the ICR concludes that the project was virtually
impossible to implement in its designed form given the level of project preparedness.

3.4 Revised Components:
Prior to Project effectiveness in March 2001 (some twenty-one months after Board approval) GOE
requested that the IBRD loan of $225.0 million ($222.75 million for Component 1 and $2.25 million for
the front end fee) be reduced to $100 million.

Towards the end of FY03, two years after effectiveness, the Government and the Bank agreed to
cancel Component 1 entirely. The Bank then engaged the authorities in intensive dialogue to
implement the remaining Institution Building component of the project (Component 2) starting
with a May 2003 restructuring mission. However, follow up discussions in FY04 with the
Borrower, Ministry of Agriculture, and PBDAC's new leadership (the third PBDAC Chairman
since Board approval) revealed that it was not feasible to implement the remaining Institution
Building component under the current circumstances. Remaining IDA resources were cancelled,
and the project was eventually closed in August 2004 after ineligible disbursements were retrieved
by the Bank. No project resources were utilized other than the $1.0 million front end fee.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated highly unsatisfactory. The only redeeming feature of the project's design is
that its objectives were in line with the CAS (as noted in Section 3.1 above).

Government and PBDAC ownership and commitment to such an ambitious project were not clear. The
Government continued to consider PBDAC as a tool to support economic development in rural areas rather
than envision PBDAC as viable, market-based financial intermediary. In this regard, PBDAC obliged
Government calls to reschedule loans to farmers when Egypt faced adverse external shocks and economic
growth decelerated in the late 1990s. Ambitious reforms under PSADP were not envisaged within a
broader framework for modernization of the banking sector, or simply modernization of rural finance,
which would help enhance ownership of the measures planned under the project. On its part, PBDAC was



                                                      - 3 -

focused on obtaining foreign exchange from the World Bank loan rather than on developing the institutional
capacity to allow PBDAC to become a viable financial institution - as indicated by PBDAC management to
the ICR team.

Project recrods suggest that the project was prematurely rushed through deadlines to allow Egypt to benefit
from IDA resources and was approved by the Bank just before Egypt's graduation from IDA at the end of
FY99. Project operational manuals and plans which are usually ready by project approval, such as the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP), general operations manual, environmental assessment manual, etc.,
were never prepared. A detailed Strategy Statement and Institutional Building Plan and a Business
Development Plan, both dated March 31, 1999, were commissioned during project preparation. However,
terms of reference for consultants to implement those critically needed measures, which comprise the main
elements of the Institution Building component of the project, were never prepared. It was clear that the
project was not ready for implementation when it was approved, and that explains to a large extent the
excessive conditionality envisaged at numerous stages of the project hoping to compensate for those
shortcomings.

PSADP effectively followed on the Bank funded Agricultural Modernisation Project (AMP) which closed
on December 31, 2001 nine months after PSADP became effective. AMP, which was rated unsatisfactory
by the ICR had, as one of its objectives, streamlining the organization of PBDAC and strengthening staff
capabilities to enhance its performance as an effective rural financial institution. Key lessons learned in the
AMP ICR show that very similar problems with regard to PBDAC's capacity were encountered with
PSADP. These issues should have been readily discernable during PSADP preparation.
         3




_________________________________________________
3/ Key lessons learned noted in the AMP ICR which warrant mention are: (i) the project was not ready for
implementation; (ii) the project design proved overly complex for an institution in transition; (iii) ownership and
shared objectives are essential to project success in Egypt; and (iv) the project exhibited a high degree of partial
compliance or non-compliance with covenants as implementation progressed.




                                                         - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Project outcome is rated highly unsatisfactory because the project failed to achieve any of its objectives and
did not yield, nor is it expected to yield, any worthwhile development results.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Annex 1 (Key Performance Indicators) provides details of the project's two components and
sub-components and the anticipated outputs as described in the PAD. They are summarised here as
follows:

Component 1- Line of Credit
The component is rated highly unsatisfactory. New investment lending to private sector rural and
agricultural borrowers was not achieved. Disbursements against the initial sub-loans under this component
were judged by the Bank to be ineligible and were retrieved, and all resources allocated to this component
were cancelled.

Component 2- Institutional Building
The component is rated highly unsatisfactory because there was minimal implementation effort under this
component. It is clear that PBDAC was focussed on obtaining the credit and loan funds for on-lending
without the commitment to undertake the institutional reform proposed by the project.

Sub-component 2.1- Independent audit of PBDAC:
The sub-component is rated highly unsatisfactory because an independent auditor to review the compliance
of PBDAC's financial statements with internationally accepted accounting and auditing standards was not
appointed.

There is little doubt that PBDAC resisted the appointment of an international firm to conduct an audit as
proposed by the project. The ICR concludes that there are several reasons for this. First, the project had
allocated $4.5 million for this purpose and PBDAC considered this sum excessive. It is unclear if PBDAC
fully understood the extent of the audit intervention proposed by the project and thus the indicated
allocation of resources. Second, PBDAC accounting procedures do not conform to international
accounting standards and PBDAC was not ready to accept the wide-reaching impact of adopting those
standards. Finally, lack of clarity and consistency in the PAD and the Loan Agreement on the
implementation of this sub-component were compounded by delays in communications between the Bank
and PBDAC.

The project team managed to agree with PBDAC, as a starting point to implement this component, to
appoint an auditor to conduct `due diligence review of the portfolio' of four BDACs using funds provided
by the AMP. No PSADP funds were used to pursue this effort for the remaining BDACs after AMP
closed. The ICR reviewed the report which provided an assessment of credit control procedures, loan
accounting practices, and loan portfolio quality as of June 30, 2000. The analysis appeared to be sound but
the specific recommendations for each topic were weak.

Sub-component 2.2- Operations and management assistance:
This sub-component is rated highly unsatisfactory because terms of reference were not prepared for an
envisaged international firm to manage, with the PBDAC Chairman, the PMD of PBDAC and to provide



                                                     - 5 -

other inputs to achieve the sub-component's objectives utilizing the results of the Institutional Building Plan
commissioned during project preparation.

Sub-component 2.3- Information technology:
The sub-component is rated highly unsatisfactory because no parts of it were implemented.

Sub-component 2.4- Agricultural technology dissemination and promotion:
The sub-component is rated highly unsatisfactory because there was no followup on initial steps taken in
this regard. The sub-component was to be implemented by a team of five professionals from within the
PMD. As per the proposal for the sub-component, a Technical Advisory Committee was formed by
Ministerial Decree, a work-plan was prepared, and guidelines for sub-borrowers under the project were
prepared. This is the extent of the progress; key staff was not appointed, and no further proposals were
implemented.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Because the project was effectively not implemented an economic analysis was not undertaken.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Because the project was effectively not implemented a financial analysis was not undertaken.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact is rated as negligible because PSADP did little to improve PBDAC's or
Egypt's ability to make effective use of its human or financial resources.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency
PSADP was prepared at a time when Egypt was experiencing relatively fast growth; an average of
approximately 5 percent per annum in the second half of the 1990s. By 2000 this growth started to taper
off and declined to approximately 3 percent in the following years. Additionally, the unfortunate incidents
of September 2001 in the USA and ensuing military action in the Middle East increased uncertainty in the
region. Under these circumstances, implementation of economic reforms slowed in Egypt and the
environment was less favourable for the implementation of an ambitious project such as PSADP.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
PSADP was approved by the Bank's Board on June 22, 1999 but it did not become effective until March
22, 2001 (some twenty-one months later). Delays in project effectiveness were very common in Egypt and
these were almost entirely due to the GOE's lengthy review process and procedures and delays resulting
from the annual parliament recess from June to November. Delays were also exacerbated by GOE's
decision to reduce the IBRD portion of the facility from $225 million to $100 million and the consequential
need to amend the Loan Agreement.

The change in PBDAC administration severely impacted project leadership by PBDAC. The Chairman of
PBDAC, who had been a major force during project identification and preparation, left towards the end of
1999. PBDAC was only one of the next Chairman's interests and he had a different capacity, agenda and
set of priorities to the person he replaced. Intensive dialogue to restructure the Institution Building
component was conducted with a third Chairman.




                                                       - 6 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
When the Chairman who was involved with project identification and preparation moved, a number of key
staff left with him; this left a significant gap of skilled personnel. Additionally, because of the time lag
between Bank Board approval and effectiveness, a number of other key staff retired and moved on to other
positions outside PBDAC. These staff movements had a significant and detrimental impact on the project,
and PBDAC did not see the urgency to replace key officials.

As with the conclusion reached for the AMP, PBDAC was far more focussed on the implementation of the
credit component than with the institutional development component of the project and it is clear that
institutional development was seen by PBDAC as being necessary only to obtain the line of credit. This
approach was clearly detrimental to the implementation of Component 2.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project costs were noted in the PAD to be $479 million of which $225 million was to be funded by an
IBRD loan and $75 million by an IDA credit. As noted, prior to effectiveness, the IBRD portion of the
loan was reduced to $100 million at GOE's request. Two years into implementation, the entire line of
credit component ($100 million IBRD and $45 million IDA) was cancelled at GOE's request leaving just
$30 million or 10 percent of the original total Bank facility. By mid FY04, all project resources were
cancelled at the request of the Government with no utilization of proceeds other than the front-end-fee.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated highly unlikely because no benefits or achievements were delivered by the project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable




                                                         - 7 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The ICR rates Bank lending performance highly unsatisfactory. Project identification took place during a
mission in April 1998, the project was appraised one year later in April 1999 after an Institutional Building
Plan was submitted in March 1999, and the PAD was completed in June of the same year. PSADP utilized
almost double the budgetary resources initially earmarked for its preparation. Adequate time and resources
were available for project preparation, particularly in view of the Bank's prior experience with AMP, but
still project design and preparation and lending documentation were inadequate.

It is apparent that a significant number of effectiveness and disbursement conditions before project
resources could be utlized were meant to address the lack of clarity about ownership and commitment of
the authorities to implement needed reforms. Excessive conditionality could have been a reaction to
rushing project approval ahead of IDA graduation deadline at end FY99. However, PBDAC lacked the
capacity to meet those conditions or even implement basic needed reforms. This should have been clear at
the time of project preparation had the implementation experience available from the AMP, especially that
of high degree of non-compliance with covenants (see footnote 3), been better taken into account and had
the Institutional Analysis presented in Annex 5 of the PAD been more rigorous. Assessment of some of the
critical risks identified in the PAD did not adequately reflect prevailing circumstances .                4




The ICR notes that project documentation was inadequate and as a result the project was virtually
impossible to implement or supervise; the task team leader had an almost impossible job. Sub-loan
elegibility criteria were not effectively specified and sub-loan documentation requirements were
                                                            5


particularly difficult and not sympathetic to the capacity of PBDAC, the capacity of smaller
sub-borrowers, or the rural environment in which they were supposed to be implemented in. There were no
provisions in the project to train sub-borrowers to meet such requirements. Many of the terms and
conditions noted throughout the PAD were not adequately reflected in the Loan, Credit, or Project
Agreements     6.




___________________________________________________
4/ One of the critical risks noted in the PAD, rated only moderate, was that an independent private sector auditor will not be
hired to undertake a comprehensive, multi year audit of PBDAC. The risk mitigation measure is that the recruitment process
for an auditor had been agreed upon and terms of reference for the assignment were being prepared; signing of a contract is a
condition of release of the first tranche of the line of credit. The ICR notes that the PAD clearly anticipated this risk but that:
(i) the recruitment process did not proceed; (ii) the terms of reference were never finalized; and (iii) the requirement that the
signing of a contract was a condition of release was not included in the Loan Agreement or applied at the time PBDAC made
the first sub-loans under the component.
5/ Annex 3 of the PAD states that "Financing under the loan would cover all categories of agricultural and rural investment,
including investment in such activities as transport, storage, and trading of agricultural inputs or products, irrigation
investments, small industry, and commerce." Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement notes that sub-loans will be used for
"agricultural and rural investments, of specific cost-effective, financially viable, economically profitable and environmentally
sustainable Sub-projects by Final Beneficiaries"; yet there is no indication what this means or what criteria should be used to
ensure that applications comply with those requirements.
6/ Annex 3 of the PAD notes that the first five sub-loans in excess of $0.05 million equivalent and subsequently all sub-loans
in excess of $1 million would require the Bank's prior approval. This requirement is not reflected in Annex 9 (Procurement
and Disbursement Arrangements) of the PAD which does not specify the need for prior review of the first five sub-loans. The
issue of prior approval is also not clear in the Loan Agreement where initial disbursements under the project were declared
ineligible and later retrieved.




                                                                 - 8 -

It is unclear how very complex and confusing English legal agreements could be effectively translated into
any other language for proper guidance - to both Bank and implementing agency staff especially for such
an ambitious project - during implementation. The ICR notes that there was ample opportunity to correct
many of those inconsistencies at the time the facility was reduced and the agreements amended - one year
after initial negotiations but still before effectiveness. However, this was not done.

7.2 Supervision:
The ICR rates project supervision unsatisfactory. With two year delays in effectiveness, extremely high
turnover among PBDAC leadership and senior management, the lack of project operational manuals, and
no implementation plan, supervision efforts should have focused on re-building project ownership and
understanding by PBDAC as well as completing necessary documentation before trying to move forward
with implementation.

The deadline for loan effectiveness was extended twice without direct links to progress made by the
borrower to meet effectiveness conditions. During those two years, the task team did not follow up on
preparing terms of reference for enacting the critical Institutional Building Plan that was ready at appraisal.
It is not clear from Bank mission reports if there was follow up on this Plan beyond the post-effectiveness
mission. Effectiveness was declared following an agreement between the task team and PBDAC to adopt a
gradual approach to meet the critical effectiveness condition relating to audit requirements. While the
approach adopted by the task team in this regard might have been the most feasible one under the
circumstances, a more formal and institutional approach to dealing with such a critical element of
effectiveness was warranted.

The ICR thus concludes that the effectiveness conditions, strictly interpreted, had not been met and that
there had been considerable informal dilution of requirements7. Opinions differed among formal bank
reviews of whether effectiveness conditions were met.             8




It is clear that the perilous state of the project should have been recognized earlier, perhaps before
effectiveness was declared, and corrective action taken before it was too late to rescue any aspect of the
project for which substantial resources had been previously allocated. "Lack of Government commitment
to the foundation of the project" as well as lack of PBDAC willingness to implement the Institution
Building component were finally documented in the Options for Restructuring memo to the MENA Vice
President dated July 31, 2002 after implementation was halted.

___________________________________
7/ A case in point is the appointment of the auditor. The requirement relating to this condition should have been clear (Article
VI of the Loan Agreement).
8/ The BFR Project Review concludes that almost all effectiveness conditions were not met while QAG notes in its May 2003
Supervision Assessment that "Having reviewed as well as we could at this point, what PBDAC has done towards meeting each
condition at that point of time, it is our view that the Borrower met most of the prescribed conditions according to any
reasonable understanding at the time".




                                                                - 9 -

PSADP was clearly not ready to implement and it is clear that supervision inputs did not compensate for
this shortcoming. Supervision resources for PSADP were not commensurate with the needs of the project
and were delayed in FY01 (before PSADP was effective) when overall budgetary resources were severely
cut. PSADP apparently did not receive a dedicated supervision mission before implementation was halted;
it was supervised along with other projects judging by the multi-project aide memoires so the the depth of
supervision is not clear. Attempts to address complicated sub-loan documentation were not consistent and
added to the confusion, and significant delays in finalizing agreed actions often resulted from poor
communication and lack of timely responsiveness.         9




In terms of the skills mix of the task team preparing and implementing the project, PSADP was jointly
prepared by two Bank staff from the Rural and from the Finance Departments in MENA who both left the
Bank before PSADP effectiveness and were replaced by a team leader from the Rural Department who was
also the task team leader for the AMP project. A new financial sector expert was assigned to the project but
left the Bank soon after; A banking sector consultant for AMP was on the joint AMP-PSADP missions.
No banking sector specialized staff participated in a supervision mission beyond effectiveness.

During FY03 and FY04, dialogue with the authorities was quite effective in focusing Government and
PBDAC attention on the Institutional Building aspects of the project. The Bank took a firm but diplomatic
stand when it refused to utilize remaining resources to finance non-core activities, and the Government
eventually requested the Bank to close the project and cancel all allocated resources including significant
IDA amounts that the Government was very hesitant to give up.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall lending and supervision performance of the Bank is rated unsatisfactory because: (i) project
design and preparation were totally inadequate; and (ii) supervision tried to move forward with
implementation without addressing the apparent lack of ownership of the project and the lack of
commitment to implement the priority Institution Development component.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's contribution to preparation is rated highly unsatisfactory. It is apparent that one of the key
motivating forces behind the Borrower's pursuit of the project was access to IDA funding. As a
consequence it was anxious to see these funds placed regardless of the level of project preparedness. In
addition, there was very limited participation by PBDAC staff and management, beyond the then
Chairman, in the preparation of the project. Some project preparation did occur during the implementation
of AMP but the benefit of this work was eroded due to delays in effectiveness.

___________________________________
9/ Specific examples noted by PBDAC were Bank attempt to clarify and simplify sub-loan requirements which were
inconsistent and created more confusion and Bank non-responsiveness to
TORs for the environmental unit where the PSRs note that those draft TORs lack clarity without moving forward on resolving
pending issues.




                                                          - 10 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated highly unsatisfactory. Time from Bank Board approval
to project effectiveness was some twenty-one months and this was largely the result of delays in GOE
approving the IDA credit and IBRD loan and the renegotiation of the IBRD loan. This delay is
unacceptable.

GOE's involvement in the project was minimal after project approval by the Bank. It is clear that project
implementation was not being monitored by the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation as the line
ministry responsible for operations in the sector. The Ministry did not intervene in an attempt to resolve the
project's problems.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the implementing agency was unsatisfactory. PBDAC failed to show any ownership of or
desire to implement any of the reforms contained in the project after the Chairman who participated in
project preparation left and it lacked momentum and resolve to strengthen its inherent weaknesses. The
issue of the audit of PBDAC was particularly problematic as was PBDAC's reluctance to implement other
institutional reforms. Continued staff turnover was also problematic.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated highly unsatisfactory because of the ratings assigned to preparation
and GOE implementation performance.

8. Lessons Learned

The lessons learned principally relate to project design, preparation, and readiness for implementation as no
financial resources beyond the Front-end fee were utilized during implementation.

Institutional lessons

(i)      Financial incentives and heavy reliance on effectiveness and disbursement conditions do not
         compensate for unequivocal ownership and commitment by all stakeholders to implement
         institutional reforms and capacity building programs for large public institutions. Such endeavors
         require the support of an overriding framework of macroeconomic or sectoral reforms (could be a
         broader framework for reform of the agricultural, financial, or rural finance sectors) to mobilize
         the support needed to implement ambitious reform programs. There is also a need to take fully into
         account the existing capacity of the implementing agency in setting the scope of such programs.

(ii)     Projects of the ambitious nature of PSADP that are designed as a banking reform project should be
         implemented as such, and not as rural credit or rural development projects, and need to have the
         appropriate resources and skills mix made available to them. In this regard, World Bank
         operational policies for reform of financial institutions need to better take into account the
         environment which rural credit institutions like PBDAC operate within and the capacity of such
         institutions to implement the measures required.

Operational lessons

(iii)    Without clear commitment and support to all project components - especially institution building
components - by the authorities and implementing agency, project implementation should not proceed.



                                                     - 11 -

Lack of commitment to some aspects of projects should be clearly and timely reported by task teams,
supervision efforts need to re-build project understanding and commitment, and the task team should timely
and proactively assess if corrective measures are needed.

(iv)     Supervision efforts should complete project preparation, where necessarym before embarking on
implementation. In cases where basic operational documents like the Project Implementation Plan or the
project operational manual were not commissioned during project preparation, the task team should give
priority to preparing those documents that provide proper guidance to implementing agencies.

(v)      Involvement of second tier officials in project preparation is necessary to protect project ownership
and implementation from staff turnover risks. In addition, clarity of project legal documents as well as their
consistency with the PAD help maintain implementation momentum should there be high turnover of
leadership.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The ICR of PBDAC on the PSADP is attached in Section 10 below.

(b) Cofinanciers:
None.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None.




                                                     - 12 -

10. Additional Information




Principal Bank for Development & Agricultural Project

                                               (Final)
                                 Implementation Completion Report
                   For the Private Sector and Agricultural Development Project
                               (IDA Cr. 3254,IBRD Loan No. 4500)

   Background

   The world Bank group financed the government of Egypt in a form of loan with total amount
   of US$ 175.000.000 divided as follows:
   -   IBRD loan no. 3254 amounting            $100.000.000
   -   IDA loan no. 4500 amounting             $75.000.000

   The main objectives of the project are :

1.     Promote rural economic development , leading to increased income and employment in
rural Egypt
2.     Strengthen financial and institutional viability of the PBDAC , a public- sector institution.


       The signing date of agreements:        4/6/2000
       The effectiveness implementation date : 22/3/2001

1.     The aide-memoir of the IBRD's mission in April 1999 included 11 items to be
implemented by PBDAC and the Egyptian Government in order to sign the agreements with the
IBRD for a loan in an amount of $225,000,000 and IDA for a line of credit in an amount of
$75,000,000.

2.     The two agreements were signed in June 2000 and the amount was reduced to
$100,000,000 from the IBRD, and $75,000,000 from IDA.

3.     The project's effective implementation commenced in 22 March 2001, after a notification
from PBDAC that all conditions needed are covered.

4.     The understanding of PBDAC was that upon signing the agreement, the first tranche (33.3
million dollar) will be available for withdrawal but PBDAC received a fax from IBRD in 11 April
2001 concerning the withdrawal procedures from the project's special account, which can be
summarized as follows:


                                                - 13 -

    -   an advance payment : $800,000 from IBRD
    -   an advance payment : $600,000 from IDA

        The ceiling for the withdrawal applications is $ 800,000 from IBRD and $600,000 from
        IDA and after reaching $9, 500, 000, the advance payments will increase to:
    -   $ 4,000,000       from IBRD
    -   $ 3,000,000       from IDA

        When we began implementation, the reimbursement cycle of any withdrawal application
        took 3 months that means the amount withdrawn and reimbursed for a year will not
        exceed $ 5,600,000 for both loans. Thus, to reach the amount of $9,500,000 needs two
        years from the beginning of implementation and this reflects a great slow down in using
        the loan, and this will result that PBDAC pays a lot of costs (commitment charge) beside
        facing a shortage of liquidity which hinders PBDAC from opening L/Cs or lending the
        clients the required loans in US Dollar. In addition to that, VIPs stop borrowing any loans
        in US Dollar or open L/Cs to import the necessary needs for agricultural and rural
        development. Those clients demand a speedy performance in lending loans and according
        to market demands. Also, IBRD's conditions for performing international bids and the
        announcement which must be made through IBRD and the required time are considered
        great obstacles and repelling elements for those clients.

5.      After the beginning of implementation and in 7 August 2001, PBDAC contracted with a
consultancy firm "Mohamed Helal and Co," to prepare the accounting and financial systems for
the project and to train the project implementation unit staff on the procedures and forms used in
implementation.

6.      In February 2002, the environmental unit was formed and 17 environmental coordinators
were chosen in BDACs,in March 2002, the TOR for appointing the environmental consultants
were prepared and a group of consultants were nominated by the Ministry of Environment. The
consultants' C.Vs were sent to IBRD. PBDAC amended the TOR many times but without any
approval from the WB. The environmental Manual was prepared and reviewed by the experts in
the Ministry of Environment and was sent to IBRD and there was no response from WB to any of
them. The consultants left work without taking their fees

7.      In May 2002, IBRD approved on raising the ceiling of the project's special account from $
1,400,000 to $3,500,000. IBRD sent a fax of approval to PBDAC but it was never executed by
IBRD.

8.      PBDAC management & WB mission in May 2003 agreed to formulate a plan to
restructure the loan. The credit component of IBRD and IDA was totally cancelled and the loan
reduced to 30 million dollars to cover only the institutional building component in PBDAC and its
affiliates for rest of the project period.

9.      PBDAC prepared the contracting procedures with the consultancy firm "Hazem Hassan
and Co,." as an external auditor for PBDAC and 4 BDACs for year 2001 and to review the



                                                - 14 -

project's activities in return of L.E 450,000. Three files including all the required documents were
sent to IBRD by the end of 2002 to approve the contracting with the consultancy firm. PBDAC
received a fax dated 8/8/2002 confirming that IBRD had received the files and they are under
study. No approval was sent by IBRD and therefore PBDAC did not contract with the
consultancy firm.

10.     In August 2002, the financing plan of the institutional building component for 5 years and
the project's procurement plan through the implementation years were prepared and sent to
IBRD.

11.     On implementing the credit component, some obstacles which delayed the cycle of
reimbursing the disbursed amounts appeared. The most important of which is changing the forms
attached with the withdrawal application many times all over the year , the matter which requires
translating them to Arabic , retraining the staff in village banks to use the new forms , translating
them to English again and waiting for the response of the WB whether by sending "no objection "
or notices .

12.      By the end of January 2003 , a drop of the price of the Egyptian Pound happened
according to the floating of Egyptian pound against the US dollar the matter which its results
were :

a)      shortage in the available local fertilizers which resulted a crisis , which lead the
government to issue its instructions according to the People's Assembly's directions that PBDAC
return to deal and distribute fertilizers all over the country .
b)       Increasing the burden of repayment cost of IDA loans financed in dollars which forms big
burdens on PBDAC especially the amounts allocated for institutional building component which
don't generate any cash return to PBDAC.

13.     Currently , PBDAC made the necessary steps to hire experts in the fields of :
    -   credit
    -   banking activities
    -   MIS
    -   Training

        Under TAF grant ( 10/2000 ) financed from African Development Bank (ADB) to
        develop the performance in these fields and train the different levels of PBDACs'staff .

16.     The big share of IDA ( 36.6 % ) was allocated for mechanizing PBDAC (18 BDACs from
PBDAC's) The mechanizing of 7 BDACs are fully completed from PBDAC's own recourses and
the rest are under implementation.

17.     One of the project requirements is the amendment of the legal framework of PBDAC &
BDACs. In this concern, in July 2003 18 BDACs were merged to become 5 regional BDACs as a
beginning of amending the legal framework according to the new law of banking and the
directions of CBE.



                                                   - 15 -

18.     Currently, PBDAC is establishing a new company for the non-banking activities. In the
frame of International Finance Institution directions of reconstructing PBDAC and separate
banking activities of the other activities. It will start working at the beginning of July 2004.

Lessons Learned:

1.      On applying project's loan agreements and credit line, we found that the required
procedures and its implementation are very complicated which led to a delay in implementation.

2.      For every implementing step we need the "No Objection " of the bank, the matter which
requires a long period of time despite of using more than one way of communication ( Fax,
E-Mail,...etc) due to that no one can replace the project's team leader which suspend the work in
the case of his absence from Washington.

          So, there should be a project's representative in the resident WB's office in Cairo who
          has the eligibility and authority of taking decisions and approving implementation as the
          bank is responsible for providing technical assistance and help to implement the project.

3.      Flexibility of amending the agreements is needed according to work requirements and the
outcomes of the practical implementation which leads to the success of the project.

4.      There is need to minimize the demands of the WB such as reports and the translation of all
documents to concentrate upon implementing & operating the project not to waste effort and time
in such detailed reports.

5.      Hiring consultants at the very beginning of the project to help PBDAC and make use of
their experience in preparing PBDAC's strategy, work plan, training staff, monitoring and
evaluating the implementation. Also, the bank should facilitate the procedures of hiring them
which takes from 4-6 month.

6.      The project should fit with PBDAC's real capabilities setting objectives which PBDAC can
implement, taking into consideration the possibility of changing and amendments through out the
implementation stages according to the actual needs as soon as possible without waiting for the
mid term review reports.

7.      If possible, WB officials should not be changed all the project's life as possible, and in case
of any change, the work of the project should continue without any change in the mechanism of
work, procedure, or the used forms.




                                                   - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
              Indicator/Matrix                                Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                        Projected in PAD
                                                         _______________

Increased income and employment in rural         - Number of jobs created as a result of the      No project activity, not assessed
Egypt.                                           project

                                                 - Increased lending to and savings               No project activity, not assessed
                                                 mobilization from the rural/or agricultural
                                                 private sector

                                                 - Net increase in the number of borrowers        No project activity, not assessed

Strengthen financial and institutional viability Implementation by PBDAC of the institution       No project activity, not assessed
of PBDAC                                         building plan

                                                 Improved financial indicators including:
                                                 ROA of at least 1 percent                        No project activity, not assessed
                                                 Administrative costs/assets of no more than      No project activity, not assessed
                                                 5.0 percent
                                                 Capital adequacy ratio of at least 12 percent    No project activity, not assessed
                                                 Full classification and provisioning according
                                                 to CBE regulation                                No project activity, not assessed
                                                 Other operating and, profitability, and liquidity
                                                 ratios                                           No project activity, not assessed




                                                                     - 17 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           Key performance indicator in PAD
                                           _____________________________

New Investment lending to private sector   Net growth in lending portfolio               Effectively Nil
rural and agricultural borrowers
Institution building
Improved staff capacity for lending and    Completed upgrading of credit annual;         No project activity, not assessed
borrower assessment and loan and portfolio environmental assessment manual;
management                                 completed staff training in credit assessment;
                                           systems in place for loan supervision and
                                           follow up
Management information systems (MIS) in    Satisfactory implementation of ongoing        No project activity, not assessed
place                                      contract for installation of MIS hardware;
                                           study completed for network wide MIS
                                           extension

                                           Regular, automatic output of management       No project activity, not assessed
                                           information reports

Accounting and auditing systems in place   Completed and dissemniated accounting         No project activity, not assessed
                                           manual; internal control systems in place and
                                           operational

Staff training programs in place           Yearly preparation of skills gap analysis and No project activity, not assessed
                                           training program

Strengthening business development         Number of staff trained; precentage staff     No project activity, not assessed
capacity                                   trained
                                           Establishment of strategic business unit      No project activity, not assessed
                                           Information on new business products and/or
                                           areas distributed to relevant staff

1End of project




                                                               - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Line of credit-investment sub-projects                     443.31            0.00               0
Institution building
Audit                                                        4.34            0.00               0
Operations and manaqgement                                  10.30            0.00               0
Information technology                                      13.48            0.00               0
Agriculture techology dissemination                          4.02            0.00               0
Project management unit                                      1.36            0.00               0
Front end fee                                                2.25            1.00              44


Total Baseline Cost                                        479.06            1.00
                         Total Project Costs               479.06            1.00
                   Total Financing Required                479.06            1.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                                            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                      ()           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            10.04           0.90         0.58         0.00         11.52
                                   (8.83)          (0.76)      (0.45)         (0.00)      (10.04)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00        19.96         0.00         19.96
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (19.96)        (0.00)      (19.96)
4. Contracts under                  20.00           0.00       423.31         0.00         443.31
investment subprojects
                                   (17.00)         (0.00)     (250.75)        (0.00)      (267.75)
5. Recurrent costs                  0.00            0.00         0.00         1.66          1.66
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Front End Fee                    0.00            0.00         2.25         0.00          2.25
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.25)         (0.00)       (2.25)
   Total                            30.04           0.90       446.10         1.66         478.70
                                   (25.83)         (0.76)     (273.41)        (0.00)      (300.00)




                                                - 19 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   4. Contracts under                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
   investment subprojects
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Recurrent costs                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Front End Fee                         0.00               0.00              1.00             0.00              1.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.00)            (0.00)           (1.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00              1.00             0.00              1.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.00)            (0.00)           (1.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component and Sub-Component (At Appraisal) (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
     Component and                  Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
  Sub-Component (At
        Appraisal)
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Investment sub-projects        267.75       47.75                     0.00                                0.0      0.0
Institution building                                                  0.00
Audit                           4.50                                  0.00                                0.0
Operations and                  9.60         0.69                     0.00                                0.0      0.0
management
Information technology         11.70         1.78                     0.00                                0.0      0.0
Agriculture Technology          4.00                                  0.00                                0.0
dissemination
Project Management Unit         0.40         1.04                     0.00                                0.0      0.0
Sub total                                    3.50                     0.00                                         0.0
Front end fee                   2.25                                  1.00                               44.4
Total                          300.00       51.25                     1.00                                0.3      0.0

   Bank amounts include IBRD and IDA resources




                                                           - 20 -

Project Financing by Component and Sub-component (actual/latest estimate) (in US$ millions)

Component            Actual/ Total Percentage  Total
                     Latest            of
                     Estimate      Appraisal
                      IBRD    IDA  PBDAC         SB   IBRB IDA PBDAC           SB
                                             Sub-borro
                                                wers
Investment              0      0
sub-projects
Institution building           0
Audit                          0
Operations and                 0
management
Information                    0
technology
Agriculture                    0
Technology
dissemination
Project Management             0
Unit
Sub total               0      0                           0       0        0   0
Front end fee           1
Total                   1        0       0        0     0.44       0        0   0




                                            - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Because the project was effectively not implemented an economic analysis was not undertaken.




                                                 - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                        (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year    Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               April                       5    ML, IS, ES,BS, AE
               1998-Identificatio
               n

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               March 1999 -                8    ML (2), BS, FM, OP, UK(3)
               Appraisal


 Supervision

               June 2000                    3   ML, BS, RD                            U               S
               September 2000               2   ML, FM                                U               S
               March 2001                       Unknown                               S               S
               June 2001                    4   ML, BS, FM, RD)                       U               U
               October 2001                     Unknown                               S               U
               May 2002                     5   ML, FM(2), OP, TA                     HU            HU
               July 2002                        Unknown                               HU            HU
               May 2003                     7   ML, ES, FM(3), LS, BS                 HU            HU

 ICR
               March 2004                  2     ML, ES



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                162.5                          910.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      57.1                          241.1
  Supervision                                76.4                          404.9
  ICR                                        18.7                            69.6
  Total                                     314.7                        1625.6
    Source: SAP




                                                 - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank CAS for Egypt, 1997.
Project Review, Private Sector Agricultural Development Project, Arab Republic of Egypt, Financial
Sector Operations and POlicy Department, BFR Group, October 15, 2002.
QAG Quality of Supervision Review (QSA5) First Stage Review, Assessment Date September 12, 2002.
QAG Quality of Supervision Review (QSA5) Second Stage Review, Assessment Date April 22, 2003.
ICR for the Egypt Agriculture Modernization project, June 2002.
Egypt, PSADP: Options for Restructuring: memo from the PSADP task team to the Sector Manager dated
July 31, 2002.
PSADP: PAD, PSRs and Aide Memoires.
PSADP: Loan Agreement, Credit Agreement, and Project Agreement.
PBDAC: Institutional Development Plan, March 1999.




                                                 - 26 -

- 27 -

