Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3254-EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(Private Sector and Agricultural Development Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 4, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3254-EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 4, 2000, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Loan Agreement) of even date herewith between the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Principal Bank 
for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC), the Bank has agreed to make a loan 
(the Loan) to PBDAC, with the guarantee of the Borrower, in an amount equal to one 
hundred million dollars ($100,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement;
(C)
the Project will be carried out by PBDAC with the Borrower’s assistance, 
and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to PBDAC the proceeds 
of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and PBDAC.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
“Participating Country” means any country that the Association determines 
meets 
the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of the 
Board of Governors 
of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and 
“Participating Countries” means, 
collectively, all such countries”.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is 
not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision 
of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(b)
“Statute” means the Borrower’s Law No. 117 for the year 1976 pertaining 
to the regulations of PBDAC’s activities, as amended from time to time.
(c)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” and “Subsidiary Loan” mean, respectively: (i) 
the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and PBDAC pursuant to Section 
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and (ii) the 
proceeds of the Credit made available pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and PBDAC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(e)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by PBDAC to a Final 
Beneficiary for a Sub-project in part out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(f)
“Sub-project” means a specific economically viable project for 
agricultural and rural investment  to be carried out by a Final Beneficiary utilizing 
the proceeds of a Sub-loan.
(g)
“Final Beneficiary” means any individual or private enterprise selected 
in accordance with the Credit Manual, as hereinafter defined, to which PBDAC proposes 
to make or has made a Sub-loan.
(h)
“PMD” means the Project Management Department of PBDAC.
(i)
“TAC” means the Technical Advisory Committee to be established by PBDAC 
pursuant to paragraph 7 (a) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement to advise on the 
implementation of the agricultural technology dissemination and promotion program.
(j)
“ATU” means the Agricultural and Technical Unit to be established by the 
PBDAC pursuant to paragraph 7 (a) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement to implement 
Page  3
the agricultural technology dissemination and promotion program.
(k)
“Business Plan” means the business plan of PBDAC, acceptable to the 
Association, dated March 31, 1999, as adopted by PBDAC’s Board of Directors and 
confirmed by the Borrower’s Minister of Agriculture, as the same may be amended from 
time to time.
(l)
“Institutional Development Plan” means the institutional development plan 
of PBDAC, acceptable to the Association, dated March 31, 1999, as adopted by PBDAC’s 
Board of Directors and confirmed by the Borrower’s Minister of Agriculture, as the 
same may be amended from time to time.
(m)
“BDAC” means any of the Banks for Development and Agricultural Credit, 
fully owned subsidiaries of PBDAC operating at the regional level.
(n)
“Village Banks” means any of the village banks established as fully-owned 
subsidiaries of PBDAC to operate at the village level.
(o)
“Market Premium” means a market-determined fee to be paid by PBDAC to the 
Borrower, as set forth in the Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme.
(p)
“CAA” means the Guarantor’s Central Auditing Agency or any successor 
thereto.
(q)
“Total Earnings Assets” means the total revenue bearing loan and equity 
investments of PBDAC.
(r)
“Audit” means the report provided by the independent auditing firm 
recruited pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
(s)
“Return on Total Assets” means the net pre-tax revenue of PBDAC, as a 
percentage of its total assets.
(t)
“Administrative Costs to Total Assets Ratio” means PBDAC’s total 
operating costs, including overhead and depreciation, but excluding costs related to 
provisioning for loan portfolio losses, as a percentage of total assets.
(u)
“Capital Adequacy Ratio” means PBDAC’s subscribed capital, including any 
general reserves and undistributed profits, but net of provisions for loan portfolio 
losses (as calculated by the auditors following standard CBE methodology and 
guidelines), as a percentage of total assets.
(v)
“CBE” means the Central Bank of Egypt.
(w)
“Credit Line” means the aggregate amount of the Loan and the Credit to be 
withdrawn by PBDAC on account of Sub-loans.
(x)
“Strategy Statement” means PBDAC’s statement, satisfactory to the 
Association, as adopted by the Board of PBDAC and confirmed by the Borrower’s Minister 
of Agriculture.
(y)
“Credit Manual” means PBDAC’s operational manual, setting forth the 
eligibility criteria for Final Beneficiaries and lending procedures for Sub-loans, 
acceptable to the Association, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(z)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period starts on July 1 and ends on June 30 in each 
calendar year.
(a.1)
“PBDAC” means the Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit, 
the beneficiary and implementing and executing agency of the Project.
(a.2)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Page  4
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty five million and five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 55,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) on account of 
withdrawals made by PBDAC for Sub-loans under Part A of the Project to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Sub-projects in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made, 
or if the Association agrees, to be made, on account of the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
For the purposes of the Project, the Borrower shall, through PBDAC, open 
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment 
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2009 and ending January 15, 2034. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2019 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
Page  5
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semi-annual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09  PBDAC is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of 
Finance (MOF) for the purpose of handling, on behalf of the Borrower, debt service 
payments with respect to the Credit.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and shall cause PBDAC to carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Project Agreement with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, environmental and 
financial practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to PBDAC 
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be concluded between the Borrower and PBDAC under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include the 
following: (i) PBDAC shall pay the Borrower a commitment charge on the unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit which shall be equal to that applicable to the Credit, and a 
service charge on the withdrawn amount of the Credit which shall be equal to that 
payable by the Borrower to the Association pursuant to the provisions of Sections 2.04 
and 2.05 of this Agreement; (ii) the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable 
by PBDAC shall be the equivalent in the currency of the Borrower (determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account or payments out of the Special 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account; 
(iii) the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by PBDAC to the 
Borrower over a period identical to that specified for the repayment of the Credit 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement; and (iv) PBDAC shall pay 
a Market Premium to the Borrower.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
Page  6
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by PBDAC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower, 
through PBDAC, shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least 
one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower, through PBDAC, shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year 
the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
PBDAC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Page  7
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that PBDAC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Statute, the Institutional Development Plan, the Business Plan, the 
Credit Manual or the Strategy Statement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of PBDAC to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PBDAC or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of Article VII of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and PBDAC; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of Article XII of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and PBDAC;
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement shall 
have been fulfilled, other than the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
(c)
PBDAC shall have established the financial management system referred to 
in Section 3.01 (a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
the Project Agreement shall have been duly authorized or ratified, and is 
legally binding upon PBDAC, in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and PBDAC, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and PBDAC, in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of Article XII of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of State for Planning and International Cooperation and the Head of the Sector for 
International and Regional Finance Organizations of the Ministry of International 
Cooperation of the Borrower are designated severally as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  8
For the Borrower:
Ministry of International Cooperation
  (International and Regional Finance 
  Organizations Sector)
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Egypt
Cable address:
Facsimile:
Ministry of International
391-5167
Cooperation, Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Ahmed Mahmoud El-Dersh
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Robert E. Hindle
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
      % of
(Expressed in 
  Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
 to be Financed
(1)
Sub-loans under Part A 
of the Project:
(a)
   11,000,000
85% of amounts 
disbursed by PBDAC 
Page  9
for eligible Sub-projects
(b)
   11,000,000
85% of amounts 
disbursed by PBDAC
for eligible Sub-projects
(c)
   11,000,000
85% of amounts 
disbursed by PBDAC
for eligible 
Sub-projects
(2)
Goods under Part B
    7,400,000
100% of foreign 
of the Project
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost); and 70% 
of local expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants services
   15,100,000
100%
and training under Part 
B of the Project
TOTAL
   55,500,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for:
(a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)
expenditures in respect of Category 1 (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule unless (i) the actions referred to in paragraph 6 (a) of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement have been taken in a manner satisfactory to the Association; and 
(ii) amounts under Category 1 (a) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement have been fully 
withdrawn.  If PBDAC has not taken the actions referred to in (i) above within 365 
days after the amounts allocated to Category 1 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and 
Category 1 (a) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement have been fully disbursed, the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or any part thereof; and
(c)
expenditures in respect of Category 1 (c) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule unless (i) the actions referred to in paragraph 6 (b) of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement have been taken in a manner satisfactory to the Association and 
(ii) amounts under Category 1 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement have been fully 
withdrawn.  If  PBDAC has not taken the actions referred to in (i) above within 365 
days after the amounts allocated to Category 1 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and 
Category 1 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement have been fully disbursed, the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or any part thereof.
3
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower for: (i) goods under contracts not 
exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; (ii) services of consulting firms under contracts not 
exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; and (iii) services of individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent and; (iv) payments made on account of 
Sub-loans.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to promote rural and agricultural economic 
development through enhancing access of rural population to credit and financial 
services and to strengthen the financial viability of PBDAC through its transformation 
into a sound financial intermediary.
Page  10
The Project consists of the following, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Association and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:  Sub-loans for rural economic development, increased income and employment
The financing, through the provision of Sub-loans for agricultural and rural 
investment, of specific cost-effective, financially viable, economically profitable 
and environmentally sustainable Sub-projects by Final Beneficiaries.
Part B:  Institutional strengthening
1.
Preparation and implementation of a multi-year audit program of PBDAC and its 
affiliates.
2.
Implementation of a comprehensive Institutional Development Plan, through 
technical assistance, including a new corporate, operational and managerial structure 
that would allow PBDAC full operational autonomy and efficacy, including the review of 
legal, auditing, operations, accounting and human resources processes, and upgrading 
of management information systems.
3.
Improvement of accounting and financial reporting and extension of computerized 
integrated banking information systems to all of PBDAC’s affiliates, branches and 
village banks.
4.
Preparation of studies, including investment in modernization of irrigation 
systems, custom hires services and input trading, packing transporting and processing 
of agricultural products; and dissemination of information on new technologies and 
related financial services.
5.
Implementation of new business development schemes and lending opportunities 
through the setting up of the TAC and ATU and provision of office equipment and 
vehicles for ATU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2, and 3 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
US$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to US$1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  11
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower, through 
PBDAC, shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower, through PBDAC, shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower, through 
PBDAC, 
shall furnish to the Association requests for 
deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower, 
through PBDAC, 
shall furnish to the Association the documents 
and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or payments in 
respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower, through PBDAC, shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit 
Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower, through PBDAC, out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower, through PBDAC, shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
Page  12
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
