Document of                 I L E   Cu0 P Y
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2451a-MAU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR AN
URBAN AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 15, 1979
This documat bas a esictd dharbuetl  ad may be ued by reci_et emay in the perforace of
their officil duti. Its It te  My  adt .trwle be dlseliuuud withot Warld Bik a_toritioun.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit    =      Ouguiya (UM)
US$1.00                UM 45
UM 1 million      .    US$22,222.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 metric ton (m ton)         =      2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilometer (km)      2       5     0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )     =      0.386 square mile (sq mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BMDC     -     Banque Mauritanienne pour le Developpement et le
Commerce
CEPI     -     Centre d'Etude et de Promotion Industrielle
CFAT     -     Centre de Formation de l'Artisanat du Tapis
OMA      -     Office Mauritanien de l'Artisanat
OMAT     -     Office Mauritanien de l'Artisanat et du Tourisme
SONADER  -     Societe Nationale pour le Developpement Rural
VIS      -     Village Irrigation Scheme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
URBAN AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Beneficiaries:        Banque Mauritanienne pour le Developpement et le
Commerce (BMDC); Societe Nationale pour le Developpe-
ment Rural (SONADER); Office Mauritanien de l'Artisanat
et du Tourisme (OMAT)
Amount:               US$8.0 million equivalent
Terms:                Standard
On-lending            Part of the funds for the industrial component (US$2.1
Arrangements:        million) will be on-lent by the Government to BMDC for
re-lending to small- and medium-scale industrial enter-
prises; the terms of this on-lending will correspond to
the aggregate of the amortization schedules for BMDC's
sub-loans (none of which will exceed 15 years), with
interest at 7 percent per annum. All foreign exchange
risks will be borne by the Government, but BMDC's in-
dustrial sub-borrowers will pay Government a 1 percent
fee per annum. The balance of Credit funds for the
industrial component (US$0.4 million) will be passed on
to BMDC as a grant. US$5.4 million of Credit funds will
be passed on as grants to SONADER (US$3.5 million)
and OMAT (US$1.9 million), partly to set up permanent
revolving funds for loans to farmers and artisans, re-
spectively, and partly to finance the provision of
technical assistance to these ultimate beneficiaries.
US$0.1 million will be used to finance two studies.
Project               The proposed project includes three separate components
Description:         to provide financial and technical assistance:  (i) to
the industrial sector for development of small- and
medium-scale enterprises promising substantially lower
investment costs per job than currently; (ii) to the
artisan sector for rehabilitating and expanding the
production of knotted carpets by decentralizing produc-
tion and improving training of weavers; and (iii) to
the agricultural sector for development of 30 new irri-
gated schemes under village cooperatives, including an
adequate credit scheme. The project also provides con-
sulting services to study the feasibility of establish-
ing a gypsum plaster brick industry to replace expensive
imported cement with locally made bricks, and of creating
a new industrial zone in the capital city of Nouakchott.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
In the short term, the proposed project would make a
small, but important contribution to relieving rural ani
urban poverty through creation of additional employment
and income opportunities, and through increased food
production. The long-term result would be easier and
more sustained growth of the three sectors through sec-
toral and institutional reforms to be introduced. The
main risks facing the project stem from the fact that,
apart from SONADER and agriculture, none of the project
institutions or sectors has ever received direct Bank
Group assistance, and this first intervention will
therefore not be easy. However, technical assistance
will be provided to all implementing institutions as
necessary to achieve project objectives; and each insti-
tution will be responsible for a particular sub-component
whose success would be independent of performance under
the rest of the project.
Project Cost:         Total project costs (net of taxes) are estimated at
US$8.9 million equivalent, of which US$6.8 million in
foreign costs (about 76 percent). The following is a
summary table of cost estimates:
(Taxes) Local Foreign Total
…------ US$' 000      …
Agriculture Component            -      783   1,970  2,753
Artisan Component               283    351   1,344  1,978
Industrial Component
- Technical Assistance
and Training for BMDC         8       9     315    332
- Studies                        -       4      72     76
291  1,147   3,701  5,139
Contingencies
- physical                      29    115.    370    514
- prices                        50    176      568    794
370  1,438   4,639  6,447
Industrial sub-projects          -     712   2,138  2,850
TOTAL PROJECT COST         (370) 2,150   6,777  9,297
Financing Plan:       The proposed Credit of US$8.0 million will finance 100
percent of the estimated foreign exchange costs of the
project and 57 percent of tax-free local costs, equivalent
to about 89 percent of total costs net of taxes. Local
contributions will be about US$1.3 million equivalent,
representing contributions from private entrepreneurs
(US$0.75 million) who will be sub-borrowers of BMDC, and
a Government participation of US$0.55 million. Retroac-
tive financing up to US$330,000 is recommended for some



- iii -
technical assistance and purchase of raw materials,
as well as costs of workshop construction for the artisan
component.
Estimated
Disbursements:                    FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
- ------------… US$ millions-----------
Annual          1.1    1.5    2.4    2.6    0.2    0.2
Cumulative     1.1    2.6    5.0    7.6    7.8    8.0
Rate of Return:       The economic return on the artisan component is estimated
at about 22 percent, and on the agricultural component
about 31 percent. No rate of return has been calculated
for the industrial component, but each sub-project will
be reviewed and approved by the Association according to
the criteria for IDF projects generally.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 2228-MAU dated March 12, 1979
Map                   IBRD 13918R






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA FOR
AN URBAN AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Credit to the Government of Islamic Republic of Mauritania for the equiva-
lent of US$8.0 million to help finance an Urban and Rural Development Project.
The Credit will be on standard IDA terms. US$2.1 million of the Credit
funds will be on-lent by the Government to the Banque Mauritanienne pour le
Developpement et le Commerce (BMDC) for re-lending to small- and medium-
scale industrial enterprises; the terms of this on-lending will correspond
to the aggregate of the amortization schedules for BMDC's sub-loans (none
of which will exceed 15 years), with interest at 7 percent per annum. The
balance of Credit funds for the industrial component (US$0.4 million) will
be passed on to BMDC as a grant. US$5.4 million of Credit funds will be
passed on as grants to the other implementing institutions, the Societe
Nationale pour le Developpement Rural (SONADER) for the agriculture
component, (US$3.5 million) and the Office Mauritanien de l'Artisanat et
du Tourisme (OMAT) for the artisan component (US$1.9 million). US$C.1
million will be used to finance two studies.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Current Economic Situation and Prospects of
Mauritania" (243-MAU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 9,
1974. Since then, a number of economic missions have visited Mauritania to
update the macro-economic data base and to help the Government prepare a
medium-term rehabilitation program. Their findings are reflected in the
following assessment of the current situation and prospects of the economy.
Country Data appear in Annex I.
The Setting
3.        With a GNP per capita of US$270 in 1977, Mauritania is not classi-
fied among the "Least Developed Countries" but, in fact, faces the same basic
constraints to development as they do. The standard of living of 80 percent
of the population is among the lowest in the world. Primary school enroll-
ment does not reach 20 percent. Most of the country is desert; agriculture
and livestock herding, which sustain 80 percent of the 1.5 million inhabit-
ants, are limited to a narrow belt of land in the southwest along the northern
bank of the Senegal river; but even there rainfall is irregular or insuffi-
cient. Some 800 miles away, in the northwest, economic activity centers
around the mining/fish processing complexes of Zouerate and Nouadhibou. The
capital, Nouakchott, lies in between, separated from each of the two economic
centers by 400 miles of desert. Routes linking the agricultural region with
neighboring countries, on the other hand, are often less than 150 miles long.
As a result, there is little interaction between Mauritania's modern and
traditional sectors but considerable economic exchange (not recorded in



-2-
official foreign trade statistics) between the latter, the western part of
Mali and the northeastern part of Senegal, which together form a more inte-
oTated -conomic unit. This further accentuates the isolation of Nouakchott,
which was built in the early 1960s in a region deprived of all basic
infrastructure.
4.        Mauritania's main political and economic links have traditionally
been with French speaking African countries south of the Sahara. Recently,
however, it has established close relations with some of its North African
neighbors as well as with the Arab OPEC countries. In June 1972 Mauritania
asked for a revision of its 1961 Cooperation Treaty with France in the
economic, monetary, technical, cultural, and military fields. A new agree-
ment was reached in February 1973, except in monetary affairs. As a result,
Mauritania left the West African Monetary Union and the Franc zone and, with
the financial support of Arab OPEC countries, established in June 1973 its
own Central Bank and introduced its own currency, the Ouguiya (UM). However,
it still maintains good economic relations with France and is a member of the
Economic Community of West Africa and of OMVS (Organisation pour la mise en
valeur du fleuve Senegal).
5.        In 1976, after Spain relinquished its control over the Spanish
Sahara, Mauritania and Morocco divided the administration of the territory
between them, with that part south of the 24th parallel to be administered
by Mauritania. Although the population of the Mauritanian section is esti-
mated at only about 30,000, the extension of Mauritania's administrative
control into this territory is straining the Government's already limited
domestic resources, both financial and human. Except for rich coastal fishing
grounds and minerals yet to be located, the resources of Mauritania's portion
of the former Spanish Sahara are limited; one small advantage permitted
Mauritania by the acquisition of this territory has been the relocation of a
few kilometers of the rail line associated with the iron ore mines in the area
-- this allows the ore trains to bypass the Choum Tunnel and adds slightly to
the efficiency of rail operations. The Choum tunnel remains open, however, as
an alternative for evacuating iron ore. The Polisario (Front for the Libera-
tion of Spanish Sahara) challenged the partition, and from 1976 to mid-1978,
conducted intensive guerrilla operations against Morocco and Mauritania.
Recent Developments
6.        During the 1960s, the Mauritanian economy grew at about 10 percent
per year in real terms. This growth was due mainly to the development of
iron ore mining and to the rapid expansion of livestock that resulted from a
successful animal health campaign. Since then, however, growth has slowed
down to less than 2 percent due to a number of unfavorable developments, most
of which were beyond the Government's control. Agricultural output, struck by
a series of severe droughts, stagnated in 1971, fell by more than 40 percent
in 1972 and again, by 20 percent in 1973. Losses of livestock, principally
cattle, amounted to an estimated 30 percent of the herd. All the gains in
per capita income of the rural population achieved in the 1960s were lost
during the drought years. Thousands of farmers and herdsmen who lost their



- 3 -
source of livelihood in rural areas have had to migrate to towns. Unable to
find work in the modern sector, many have turned to the informal sector for
opportunities, or have remained unemployed. A recovery set in around 1974,
and economic activity was slowly returning to normal when the doublirng of the
price of petroleum products, together with rises in other import prices, put
pressures on the balance of payments and set the economy on an unprecedented
inflationary pat.i.
7.        Mauritania's capacity to respond to this new situation was limited,
particularly after 1975, when the stagnation of the world steel market started
to affect its main export (iron ore), while the need to maintain and equip a
large national defense effort against the Polisario was absorbing an increasing
portion of scarce resources. More than ever, stabilization of the economy, a
pre-condition for future growth, had to come from abroad. In this respect,
Mauritania has been fortunate to receive substantial foreign assistance in
the past few years. During the period 1973-77, about US$800 million was made
available to the country in response to its growing needs. Most of it came
from Arab OPEC countries and consisted of concessionary loans and grants for
both balance of payments/budget support and project aid, but a sizeable amount
also originated from private banks and foreign suppliers.
8.        The Government used these resources to nationalize the mining sector
in 1974-75, thus bringing under public control the country's major economic
and financial activities. It then started to play a more decisive role in
managing the economy by organizing and directing large investments. Between
1973 and 1977, public investments more than doubled in real terms and reached
UM 10.4 billion (US$232 million), an amount equivalent to 50 percent of GDP.
Most of these investments, however, were concentrated in non-directly produc-
tive sectors such as infrastructure. The few large projects in the industrial
sector were ill-conceived and financed on very hard terms. The most important
ones, a sugar refinery and an oil refinery were completed last year, but
neither can at present be operated profitably and both remain closed for the
time being. As a result, the burden of the external debt increased sharply,
while the capacity of the economy to service it did not.
9.        During 1977 the situation deteriorated sharply.  The drought struck
again and production of millet, the main crop, fell from about 36,000 tons
per year to an estimated 21,000 tons. More than 100,000 tons of grain (main-
ly rice and millet) had to be imported, of which only about a third was
grant-financed. World market prices for iron ore remained depressed, while
rail evacuation from the mines to the port (650 km) became difficult because
of Polisario attacks. As a result, iron ore exports dropped to US$127 million
in 1977, as compared to US$154 million the year before. To add to the diffi-
culties, budget support from Arab countries was drastically cut. Reflecting
these unfavorable developments, the balance of payments registered a deficit
of US$42 million, which had to be financed by a drawdown of official reserves.
At the end of 1977, for the first time since independence, net reserves of the
Central Bank moved to a negative position.



- 4 -
10.       On the public finance side, the situation was even more disquieting.
Payment arrears of the Treasury accumulated. Despite the adoption of a revised
austerity budget in August 1977, the current deficit, estimated at US$64 mil-
lion in 1976, increased to US$90 million in 1977, and the Government was
forced to divert some project aid and to use large advances from the Central
Bank to cover it.
11.       In turn, the Central Bank, faced with a large demand for credit
from the Government, had to impose strict limitations on credit to the private
sector and to reduce the access of commercial banks to rediscounting facili-
ties. Though there was an increase in private sector credit in 1977, this was
mostly due to the need to replace with domestic credit a part of foreign sup-
pliers' credit in the financing of imports. These, which in the past financed
the import trade, were no longer available in 1977.
12.       On July 10, 1978, a bloodless coup d'etat deposed President Moktar
Ould Daddah. The new Government pledged to honor all Mauritania's foreign and
international commitments. The arrival of a new team in power seemed to have
opened the way for new peace initiatives. The Polisario declared a temporary
cease-fire and has so far faithfully observed it. All parties interested in
the Western Sahara question have met during the last seven months, and dis-
cussions are apparently continuing.
Rehabilitation Program and Short-Term Outlook
13.       On the economic and financial front, the new Government appears
determined to take hard measures to improve the situation but desperately
needs renewed budget assistance. It has, therefore, officially adopted the
various measures outlined in a program for rehabilitation of the balance of
payments and the current budget that was prepared by the former Government
with Bank assistance. This program, which is entirely consistent with measures
being recommended by the IMF, proposes the consolidation or rescheduling of a
substantial proportion of the Government's external debt (about US$215 mil-
lion), 1/ emphasizes the importance of current budget assistance (about
US$60-65 million a year until the early 1980's) without which the Mauritanian
administration will not be able to function, imposes strict conditions on
Government's future borrowing and tight control of public expenditures, and
recommends drastic changes in public investment priorities.
1/   At the end of 1977, Mauritania's external public debt, including undis-
bursed, amounted to US$677 million; US$574 million was contracted by
the Government, US$44 million by the Central Bank of Mauritania, US$50
million by SNIM, and US$9 million by other public enterprises. Debt
rescheduling recommended in the rehabilitation program only concerns
the Government and Central Bank debt as it is expected that SNIM would
generate sufficient cash flow to cover both existing commitments and new
debts contracted for the Guelbs project. The US$215 million include all
Government debts contracted on hard terms, and a few large bilateral
loans for which grace periods have expired.



-.5-
14.       The new Government has discussed the rehabilitation program on
a bilateral basis with a number of countries and has obtained encouraging
results. Abu Dhabi, France, Kuwait, Libya, Morocco and Saudi Arabia have
pledged to give more than US$190 million, most of it as grants for balance
of payments and budget support. About US$80 million have already been dis-
bursed. This substantial inflow of foreign aid, supplemented by the STABEX
compensation for iron ore export shortfalls in 1977 and 1978 and two drawings
on the IMF Trust Fund, should permit Mauritania to avoid a difficult finan-
cial crisis in 1978 and early 1979.
15.       Concurrent with the search for budgetary assistance, the Government
has started to renegotiate part of its external debt, which reached a very
high level for a country like Mauritania. They reported that five loans
(including two monetary deposits) worth about US$68 million have already been
rescheduled. The Government further indicated that it has approached Mauri-
tania's main creditors (essentially Governments with which Mauritania main-
tains close political links) and intends to renegotiate bilaterally the terms
and conditions of loans they have granted, which amount to about US$154
million. For debts held by private banks and former shareholders of MIFERMA
(Mines de Fer de Mauritanie) (US$61 million) , the Government hopes to avoid
direct renegotiations and will try to obtain from friendly Governments a soft
loan to consolidate them.
16.       The Government appears determined to do what is required to solve
the country's external debt problem. It realizes the difficulty of the task,
but remains relatively optimistic, pointing out that the substantial finan-
cial assistance Mauritania has received in the past seven months should not
only ease the pressure, but also shows the strong support it has in the
international community.
17.       On the domestic side, the Government took a series of measures to
reverse the deteriorating trend of the past. To improve the public finance
situation the Government:
(i) closed down SOMIMA (the copper mine which during its 7
years of operation experienced severe technical and
financial problems), thus saving about US$10 million a
year in subsidies;
(ii) postponed the start of operations of the oil and sugar
refineries until their profitability is clearly demons-
trated;
(iii) undertook a comprehensive study to reorganize the public
enterprise sector and to eliminate unprofitable firms;
(iv) requested bilateral assistance to strengthen its
administration;
(v) accepted to limit the creation of new positions for civil
servants and to restrict salary increases to 5 percent per
annum in current terms until 1980;



- 6 -
(vi) indicated that necessary measures will be taken to
improve tax collection and combat tax fraud; and
(vii) pledged to observe strict financial standards in the
choice of its investments; projects which can not be
financially and economically justified will be dropped.
Strategy and Long-Term Prospects
18.       Public investments included in the rehabilitation program indicate
a clear departure from past policies, where the main emphasis was on industry
and transport development. With the exception of two large infrastructure
projects (the Nouakchott port and the Kiffa-Nema road), the execution of
which has already started, most of the proposed investments are concentrated
in the productive sectors in order to broaden the economic base and accelerate
structural changes necessary for future growth. The highest priority is given
to the continuation of iron ore exploitation as this activity is (and will
remain in the foreseeable future) the main support of the Mauritanian economy.
Indeed, the Guelbs project is the cornerstone of the Government's rehabilita-
tion program. Without it, all the efforts to redress the economy (including
debt rescheduling) presently under way would be in vain. The iron ore project,
however, will probably be the main, or even, the only industrial project to
be started over the next few years and the traditional sectors (agriculture,
livestock, and fisheries) will be given increasing priority.
19.       The most formidable obstacle to this strategy is the scarcity of
well prepared projects. Mauritanian administrative services are inadequately
staffed for project preparation and analysis; many projects for the rural
sector selected by the Government need additional preparatory work to become
economically viable. Equally critical is the lack of project execution
capability. Two IDA financed technical assistance projects to the Ministry
of Planning and to SONADER, the newly created agency in charge of rural
development, should help the Government overcome some of these problems by
providing the key personnel and the needed project preparation expertise.
20.       From 1977 to 1985, the overall growth of the economy could reach
about 3.4 percent per annum, with iron ore mining being the main motor of
expansion. During this period, development of the rural sector will remain
moderate because of the long gestation period of agricultural projects. It
is net until after 1985 that this sector would achieve a more sustained growth
of about 4 percent per annum. The increase in real GDP between 1985 and 1990
should be in the neighborhood of 3 percent per annum and should result in a
slow improvement in the level of income of the Mauritanian population. These
moderate rates (substantially higher than those recorded in the recent past)
show that the recovery of the Mauritanian economy is possible. It will be a
long and difficult process, however, requiring careful management of available
resources since a substantial investment effort will be demanded from the
country around the mid-1980s in order to continue the Guelbs project (Phase
2). As a result, savings outside the mining sector will not be able to
increase much without unacceptably reducing private consumption. During



the 1978-85 period most of the capital needed to achieve the Government's
development program (about US$1.1 billion, including the Guelbs project)
would therefore have to come from abroad. Half of this is already assured.
Indeed, the Government has been very prudent to include in the rehabilitation
program only projects that have already attracted the interest of external
donors. Prospects for mobilizing the remainder are relatively good, provided
the Government manages to improve the balance of payments and budget situa-
tion. However, considering the country's general poverty, its strong reliance
on a single export product, and the long gestation period of many of its
important projects, Mauritania can only afford the necessary borrowing if
most of the foreign capital is on concessionary terms. In addition, general
budget austerity imposed by the present economic conditions will severely
limit Government's ability to put up local funds for its investment program.
Foreign donors should be prepared, therefore, to provide funds to cover a
substantial proportion of the local costs of the few high priority development
projects which will go ahead in the next few years; indeed, some donors have
indicated their willingness to cover 100 percent of the investment costs of
such projects in order to give Government the maximum of breathing space
during this difficult period, while permitting development activity to con-
tinue. Assuming that the existing debt is rescheduled or consolidated in
the proportions stated by the Government, the debt service ratio (including
the debt service cushion representing one semi-annual debt service payment to
all Guelbs lenders) would increase from about 13 percent in 1978-79 to a peak
of about 20 percent in 1982-83, when a large monetary deposit of about US$24
million contracted in 1973 by the Central Bank falls due at the same time
Guelbs debts start to mature. Thereafter, the debt service ratio would
probably stabilize around 15-16 percent.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
21.       The Bank Group has participated in the financing of twelve opera-
tions in Mauritania. Total lending amounts to US$124.5 million. The first
operation was a Bank loan of US$66.0 million for the MIFERMA iron ore mining
project in 1960. Ten others are IDA credits totalling US$38.5 million. Four
of these operations are in the transport sector: US$6.7 million in FY66 for
the construction of the Nouakchott-Rosso road; US$3.0 million in FY69 for a
four-year road improvement and maintenance program; US$3 million in FY75 for
another six-year follow-up to the first maintenance program; and US$8 million
in FY76 for the extension of the Nouadhibou Port. Four operations are in
the rural sector: US$4.2 million for livestock development in FY72; US$2.5
million for a drought relief fund project in FY73; US$1.1 million for the
Gorgol irrigation engineering project in FY74; and US$3.5 million in FY77 for
a technical assistance project to SONADER, the Government agency in charge of
preparing and executing rural development projects, particularly those involv-
ing irrigation. One operation is in the education sector amounting to US$3.8
million in FY74 and one is a US$2.7 million technical assistance operation to
the Ministry of Planning in FY77. In 1968, IFC made a loan to and an equity
investment in SOMIMA, a copper mining company, which totalled US$20 million;



- 8 -
this IFC participation and the accompanying loan were paid back when the
Government nationalized SOMIMA in 1974. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of January 31, 1979, as
well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       Implementation of these projects has often been retarded by cumber-
some Government administrative procedures. The combination of administrative
delays and those due simply to the exceptionally difficult conditions prevail-
ing in Mauritania (very unfavorable climate, huge distances separating the few
population centers, inadequate or nonexistent transport network, and a general
lack of trained manpower) has led, in a period of high inflation and adverse
changes in exchange rates, to cost overruns on many of the projects financed
in the period from FY69 to FY75. The scope of some of these projects has, of
necessity, had to be reduced accordingly in order to stay within the financial
package provided.
23.       The Government is acutely aware of the problems it is encountering
in project execution. The two recently approved technical assistance projects
to the Ministry of Planning and to SONADER are an important element of the
Government's program to overcome these problems. By strengthening Govern-
ment's project preparation capacity and by providing for monitoring of project
execution on a more systematic basis, the planning team will help the Govern-
ment anticipate problems in project implementation and take steps to deal
with them before they occur; similarly, the technical assistance provided
to SONADER should help turn it into a strong development agency capable of
carrying out a rational investment program for the rural sector.
24.       In 1970-72, the Bank Group was the third largest donor (providing
about 18 percent of Mauritania's external capital assistance) behind France
(21 percent) and the European Economic Community (19 percent). Given the
rapidly growing external financial assistance available to Mauritania, the
Bank Group's share decreased to about 6 percent in 1977. We are now empha-
sizing technical assistance and coordination of cofinancing arrangements, both
with traditional donors and with Arab OPEC countries. We will also continue
to help Mauritania develop and modernize its agriculture. With most of the
objectives of the SONADER technical assistance project well on their way to
being achieved, we are considering a project which would open up 3,600 ha for
irrigation for the direct benefit of 4,600 families (about 28,000 people).
This project, the first large-scale irrigation project envisaged in Mauritania,
will bring to fruition efforts we have made in the past few years to develop
the southern part of the country, one of the poorest in the world. The IDF
project proposed in this report is designed to relieve poverty in both urban
and rural areas by providing financial and technical assistance to small- and
medium-scale entrepreneurs, artisans, and smallholder farmers. Because of
the vital importance of education for the future development of Mauritania,
further Bank involvement in this sector is also envisaged. All projects now
under preparation emphasize institution-building and improved project management.
25.       Bank Group efforts to assist the Government in its development
efforts would be in vain, however, if iron ore mining, the mainstay of the
Mauritanian economy, should come to a close by the late 1980's when the Kedia



- 9 -
reserves presently in exploitation are depleted. The continious exploitation
of this resource is necessary to finance the development of other sectors,
which would in time constitute a renewable base for economic growth in
Mauritania. The Guelbs Iron Ore project scheduled for Board presentation
later in FY79 is designed to open up new sources of iron ore and thus enable
Mauritania to maintain and increase production levels made possible by the
MIFERMA operation which the Bank Group helped finance in 1960.
PART III - THE PROJECT SECTORS
A.   The Financial Sector
Monetary Policy
26.       Mauritania was a member of the West African Monetary Union (IJMOA) 1/
since the latter's establishment in 1962, but withdrew from the Union and the
Franc Zone in mid-1973. At that time, a central Bank, the Banque Centrale de
la Mauritanie (BCM) was established, followed by introduction of the new cur-
rency, the Ouguiya (UM) whose value is linked to five currencies 2/, and is
reviewed daily by BCM on the basis of the market value of these currencies.
In addition to serving as banker for the Government and a source of short-
(less than 2 years) and medium-term (2-8 years) refinancing for the commercial
and development banks -- BCM does not rediscount for terms exceeding eight
years -- BCM also acts as a regulatory agency for banking activities in the
country, and through the rediscount system, exercises close supervision over
lending by requiring that individual credits be submitted for prior approval
to BCM (except for short-term credits below UM 2 million). In this and other
respects, monetary policy controls are similar to those applied in UMOA
countries.
The Banking System
27.       The Banque Mauritanienne pour le Developpement et le Commerce (BNDC)
is the country's development bank which also carries out substantial commer-
cial banking operations; BMDC currently has total assets of UM 1.2 billion
(US$26.7 million equivalent), and about 10 percent of total bank deposits. In
addition to BMDC, there are four commercial banks. Two of these were estab-
blished fairly recently: Banque Arabe Libyenne Mauritanienne (BALM) in 1972,
and Banque Arabe Africaine en Mauritanie (BAAM) in 1974. The other two are
ex-subsidiaries of French banks now with Mauritanian majority control: Banque
Internationale pour la Mauritanie (BIMA) which belonged to the group BIAO, and
Societe Mauritanienne de Banques (SMB) which belonged to the group of Societe
1/   Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine now includes as members Benin, Ivory
Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo and Upper Volta.
2/   US dollar, French franc, Belgian franc, Deutsch Mark and Dutch guilder.



- 10 -
Generale,  The oldest bank, BIMA, now has total assets of UM 1.8 billion and
35.6 perc:ent of total bank deposits; SMB has assets of UM 1.5 billion with
7 per^--nt of deposits; BALM, assets of UM 2.1 billion with 26.9 percent
o, deposits, and EAAM, assets of UM 2.1 billion with 11 percent of all bank
deposits. The Government has a majority controlling interest in all these
baaks except for BALM, where it owns 49 percent of the share capital.
28.       Given the 8-year limit on BCM rediscounting, there is no domestic
source of long-term financing. In the past, BMDC was in a position to provide
such financing on a case-by-case basis through refinancing from the French
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE); however, this was no longer
the case after 1973 when Mauritania withdrew from the Franc zone. The bulk
of term financing in the country has thus been provided by medium-term redis-
counting, which now accounts for about 87 percent of total medium-term credit
outstanding.
29.       Borrowers now pay an average interest of only 5.75 - 6.5 percent on
industrial. and housing loans, which is low considering the current inflation
rate of about 8-9 percent. As a step towards more realistic interest rates,
the proposed project provides for on-lending on loans to small- and medium-
scale industries at the rate of 11 percent (not including a 1 percent fee for
foreign exchange risk to be paid to the Government); on-lending to artisans
and farmers would be at the present preferential rate of 8.5 percent applied
in these sectors (paras. 73-75).
Banque Mauritanienne pour le Developpement et le Commerce (BMDC).
30.       BMDC was established in 1961 by the Government and the CCCE as a
purely developemert bank (Banque Mauritanienne pour le Developpement (BMD),
with the main objective of promoting the country's economic and social develop-
ment. However, over the years it developed mostly as a housing and consumer-
credit financing institution, and became increasingly involved in commercial
short-term borrowing and lending operations. This situation was formalized
in June 1974 when the name was changed to BNDC to take account of its new com-
mercial role. Under the revised statutes, BMDC has a broad mandate authoriz-
ing it to carry out the full range of commercial banking activities; it is
also autnorized to act as an agent for the Government.
31.       Since its inception, BNDC has worked mainly with locally available
funds including rediscounting from the Central Bank (BCM); it also benefitted
from four loans totalling UM 79 million (US$1.75 million equivalent) provided
by CCCE to finance building construction for the airport at Nouakchott, and
housing development for the old mining company, MIFERMA. BMDC's fully paid
up capital as of March 31, 1978 was UM 80 million suscribed by Government
(76 percent), Societe Tunisienne de Banques (20 percent), and BCM (4 percent).
As of February 1979, IFC has been discussing with BMDC the possibility of an
equity participation.
32.       Administration and Organization.  BMDC's Board consists of 12
members appointed by the Government (10), BCM (1), and STB (1). The statutes
require the Board to meet at least four times a year, but recently this rule



- 11 -
has not been observed. However, Government has provided assurances that
BMDC's management would in the future adhere strictly to the procedures and
loan approval limits established by its Board (Section 3.01 (b) of draft
Development Credit Agreement, and Section 2.01 of draft Project Agreement).
33.       BMDC's Present organizational structure is essentially tailored to
the needs of a commercial banking operation, and this has generally served
requirements satisfactorily. However, there are significant weaknesses, for
example: BMDC does not carry out a systematic review of its arrears (currently
estimated at about 21 percent of total assets), nor does it follow an estab-
lished program for their recovery.
34.       The above problems have been discussed with BMDC's management which
confirmed that a separate unit has recently been established to carry out a
systematic review of arrears and follow-up of recoveries; similarly, proce-
dures for regular internal audits have recently been introduced. In addition,
BMDC will be required, as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit,
to submit to the Association for review its audited accounts for the year
ended Decemer 31, 1977 (Section 6.01(c) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Technical assistance under the proposed project will introduce BMDC staff to
continuous management review through regular use of arrears ratios, while the
external auditor will make an annual assessment of the adequacy of provisions
for bad and doubtful debts (Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of draft Project Agreement).
35.       BMDC's employees number 77, of whom 19 professionals (including two
expatriate advisors) who are motivated and eager to learn new techniques, but
relatively young and inexperienced. Training so far has been mainly on the
job; but the management is actively exploring alternative training possibili-
ties, and is planning to pursue an active training program for professional
staff development.
36.       BMDC's operational and financial policies as defined in its Policy
Statement specify limits on its equity investments but not on its total ex-
posure (loans and equity), neither in terms of its own resources nor in rela-
tion to the total cost of a given investment project. In fact, financing has
in some cases been close to 100 percent of project cost, with term commitments
to private projects ranging up to 60 percent of BMDC's own equity, and those
to public projects to over 100 percent of equity. For example, BMDC's lending
approved by its previous management to the Societe Mauritanienne des Industries
et de L'Equipement (MIE) has gone up to about UM 118 million, about equivalent
to BMDC's equity. Total recovery of this loan appears doubtful due to MIE's
weak financial position caused by serious start-up problems, including delays
in granting Investment Code privileges to which MIE was entitled, and slow
physical implementation in the early stages. The Government has recently
decided to take steps to strengthen MIE's management and to start making the
project profitable. In the meantime, the Government has agreed to cover any
reduction of BMDC's capital, provisions, or reserves from the level effective
at December 31, 1977, if such reduction is caused by a loss on any BMDC loan
whose original amount exceeded UM 30 million (about US$660,000); the MIE loan
was originally UM 33 million. The Association has received a letter from the



- 12 -
Government indicating that such a commitment will be included in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Government and BMDC, which must be acceptable to the
Association and is specified as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit (Section 6.01(a) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
37.       To prevent a recurrence of this experience, BMDC has amended its
regulations to limit its total exposure in term loans and equity participation
in a single project to 30 percent of its share capital and free reserves, or
to 90 percent of project cost, whichever is lower. Exceptions could be made
for projects from public companies, provided a state guarantee is obtained,
and only subject to approval of the Board on a case-by-case basis. As a
result of discussions under the proposed project, these limits have been incor-
porated in BMDC's Policy Statement (Section 2.08 of draft Project Agreement).
Operations
38.       Appraisals for term-credits and equity investments are carried out
by BMDC's credit department, but the appraisal capability is extremely poor.
The work focuses mainly on financial aspects, and makes only passing reference
to technical, marketing, management, and economic matters. The proposed
project provides for strengthening BMDC's appraisal capacity by financing
three man-years of technical assistance to establish a Development Department
devoted primarily to the identification, appraisal, and supervision of indus-
trial projects (para. 44). The project also provides for overseas training
of BMDC senior staff, including the Mauritanian counterpart for the proposed
technical expert.
39.       All borrowers are asked to open an account with BMDC.  However, the
follow-up for consumer and housing credit is not structured and is generally
ineffective. For industrial projects, BMDC does not require competitive
bidding, nor does it try to satisfy itself on the adequacy of the suppliers'
offer. Disbursements are made at the borrower's request without much control
over project progress, and even when the borrower's share of the investment
has not been paid in. In accordance with BMDC's amended policy statement,
and under the proposed project, all project beneficiaries will be required
to deposit with BMDC their contribution, or satisfactory evidence of their
expenditure on the approved sub-project, before BMDC disburses its contribu-
tion to sub-project financing. Assurances have also been provided that BMDC
will in future follow competitive bidding procedures considered essential for
efficient project implementation (para. 75) (Sections 2.03 and 3.01 (b) of
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Prospects
40.       Primarily because of restrictive credit policies currently being
followed by the Central Bank, BMDC is in a tight liquidity position and has
not been actively seeking projects nor encouraging its clients to propose
potential operations for financing. Its pipeline of industrial projects is
therefore limited to three projects requiring financing of UM 75 million



- 13 -
(US$1.7 million). However, if BMDC were to obtain external resources as pro-
posed, several other projects could be eligible for financing; in fact, six
of these projects identified by the Ministry of Industry and totalling UM 150
million (US$3.3 million equivalent) are ready for immediate financing. The
possible establishment of a brick industry, feasibility studies for which
are proposed for financing under the present project, could also be an early
beneficiary of the proposed industrial line of credit to BMDC. To expand its
development role, BMDC would now like to become more involved in agricultural
credit, and the proposed project would allow its exposure to this, as well as
to credit operations in the artisan sector.
B.   The Industrial Sector
41.        The share of the industrial sector in Mauritania's GDP at factor
cost is about 36%. Of this, the mining sector contributes 22%, and is the
second largest employer in the country after the Government, with a total of
4,800 workers (24% of total employment in the modern sector excluding self-
employment). Other industries consist of some 80 enterprises employing about
6,000 people, and located almost exclusively around the capital Nouakchott
and the fishing port of Nouadhibou. While a few large-scale industries are
Government-owned, most of the small- and medium-scale industries (SMIs) have
been established by Mauritanian entrepreneurs. These industries include
20 in construction, 16 in carpentry and metal-working, 15 in electrical,
mechanical, plumbing and painting works, 7 in chemical works, 5 in printing,
5 in fish processing, and the rest in other miscellaneous industries.
Government Industrial Policy
42.        Following nationalization of the mining sector in 1974 and its
incorporation into the Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere (SN1M),
Government tried to step up public investments in large industrial ventures,
leaving the SMIs to fend for themselves. This policy is reflected in the
current Five-Year Plan (1976-80) which includes a number of large projects
with total cost ranging from US$17 million to as much as US$153 million.
The same policy is reflected in the Investment Code issued in 1976 which
favors large operations in providing tariff and tax incentives to new indus-
tries. Because of this preferential treatment, the Code presents several
obstacles to the development of SMIs as follows: (i) the classification
of enterprises and corresponding benefits are such that more benefits are
accorded to large enterprises, encouraging capital intensity; (ii) the fiscal
system, such as high customs duties on imported raw materials, handicaps
Mauritanian products in competition not only abroad among other members
of the West African Custom Union (CEAO), but also in the domestic market
itself with imports from CEAO; (iii) the Code is rather vague with regard to
detailed provisions, and this prevents small- and medium-scale entrepreneurs
from knowing in advance the advantages they can count on, and could create
inequities between industries, and even between enterprises in the same
industry; (iv) given the small number of enterprises expected to qualify



- 14 -
for privileges, the Code is too complicated and needs to be simplified; (v)
important public investments such as mining, road construction, mosque con-
struction, are exempted from import duties, so that Mauritanian SMIs which
could have supplied these important public sectors are exposed to the full
blast of foreign competition without even normal tariff protection.
43.       The Government is in the process of establishing operating prin-
ciples for a recently created industrial promotion unit, and defining a new
industrial policy based on promotion of SMIs and provision of medium- and
long-term financing (paras. 44-45). The principal improvements to the
Code provide for abolishing the present categories, granting to approved
industries either total exemption from import duties on raw materials and
equipment, or duties at or below CEAO levels. The Association has reviewed
a revised draft of the Investment Code, and has reached agreement with Govern-
ment on the new proposals. As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit, the Government has agreed to amend the Code accordingly (Section
6.01(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Small- and Medium-Scale Industries
44.       During 1977 when the combined financial and economic effects of
droughts and the Sahara conflict led to severe employment problems in the
urban areas, Government began to shift emphasis from large-scale projects
with doubtful return, to cost-efficient, employment-creating SMIs, and re-
quested Bank Group assistance in formulating a strategy for their development.
The SMI manufacturing sector in Mauritania faces many obstacles: there is
a lack of skilled people; wages are relatively high by West African standards
because of the influence of the mining sector; infrastructure is weak; and
construction costs are among the highest in Africa. Furthermore, the author-
ities had never really made an effort to promote development of the subsector.
Now, as part of a stated new Government policy to actively develop SMIs, a
solid program of technical assistance is planned through the newly created
Centre d'Etude et de Promotion Industrielle (CEPI) within the Ministry of
Industry. CEPI's objectives are already fairly well established, it has
started work with technical assistance from Germany and the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), and prospects are good for its
becoming a very viable unit. CEPI's terms of reference as discussed and
agreed with the Association, include identification, appraisal, supervision,
and management assistance to SMIs. CEPI should therefore be well placed to
assist BMDC in its project appraisal in areas where the latter lacks compe-
tence, as in engineering (para. 38). CEPI would also provide technical
assistance to local entrepreneurs; and would additionally benefit from assis-
tance under the proposed project to start preparation work for a new indus-
trial zone. Establishment of a guarantee fund is also under consideration.
45.       Until now, Government administrative procedures regarding invest-
ment decisions have been extremely cumbersome, and it often took over a year
to review investments before presenting them for approval to the Investment
Commission, and for a decision on whether or not to grant certain incentives.
SMIs suffered considerably from these delays. Under the proposed project,



- 15 -
procedural changes are suggested which would eliminate the current duplication
of work between the Ministries of Industry and of Planning by assigning to
CEPI the review of all SMI projects with total fixed investments not exceeding
UM 200 million (US$4.4 million equivalent), and to the Ministry of Planning
the responsibility for projects above this ceiling. Moreover, only invest-
ments over $2 million would require a decision of the Council of Ministers;
final approval of incentive privileges for investments below that amount would
be granted by the Investment Commission which would meet more regularly than
is now the case to study projects ready for financing, as well as those being
appraised by CEPI (Section 4.03 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
C.   The Artisan Sector
46.       In 1975, there were approximately 48,000 artisans (representing
about 9 percent of the active population), producing both utilitarian goods
(clothes, tools) and art objects (ornaments). Of these, 16,000 were men
working full-time mainly on metal goods, and 32,000 were women working full-
or part-time mainly with leather or wood. While there has been no recent
census, the total number of artisans is considered to be increasing. Today,
artisans still contribute about US$13 million equivalent or 5 percent of GDP,
although trade is becoming extremely difficult due to competition from imports,
difficulty in getting raw materials, poor organization of production, and
outdated techniques. Government support to the artisan sector has been
limited, except in carpet production.
47.       In 1965, the National Organization for Women (Association pour la
Promotion de la Femme par le Travail) opened a training center to provide
modern training in domestic skills. One of the courses offered by a Tunisian
technical assistant was the technique of producing hand-knotted carpets as
done traditionally in some North African and Middle Eastern countries. The
Mauritanian women, skilled since childhood in weaving carpets, took quickly to
this new technique. Seeing an unexpected result, the Government established
in 1967 Office Mauritanien du Tapis, a public enterprise which was intended to
organize women for carpet production, provide on-the-job training, supply raw
materials, workshops and equipment, and market the products. 2By 1972, there
were about 220 weavers, and carpet production reached 3,000 m per annum.
The combination of the new technique with traditional Mauritanian carpet
design and color appealed to local people as well as the foreign community in
Nouakchott. They were also highly appreciated when displayed in international
expositions. Orders poured in, and the supply could not keep up with the
demand. However, by 1973, the development of production called for a dif-
ferent institutional framework.
48.       Training.  The Government decided to create a separate training
institution, the Centre de Formation de l'Artisanat du Tapis (CFAT), within
the Ministry of Transportation, Postal Services, Arts and Crafts, and Tourism.
CFAT has 15 professional staff members including the director. The first
class of 100 students was recruited from girls aged 16 to 18 who were awarded
scholarships to undergo a three-year training period. Of this class, 88 com-
pleted their training in 1976, but only 20 took up carpet production. One



- 16 -
main reason for this high drop-out rate was the fact the training program
covered a wide range of subjects (geography, history, literature), as well as
basic literacy, and carpet-weaving was given no predominance. Thus, although
the girls belonged to the poorest classes, they received too 'high' an educa-
tion to become weavers, yet as weavers they did not have enough skills. It
is therefore now necessary to review student recruitment policies and curri-
culum content and make appropriate adjustments; the proposed project makes
provision for this (para. 65).
49.       Production.  Also in 1973, the Government changed the name of
Office Mauritanien du Tapis to the more comprehensive Office Mauritanien de
l'Artisanat (OMA), hoping thereby to extend assistance to other artisan groups,
since OMA's responsibility towards the weavers was now limited to supervising
production and marketing. However, aside from marketing other artisans'
products, OMA's activity remained concentrated on carpet production. It
had three workshops with 115 weavers, 5 professional staff, and two bouti-
ques to sell artisan products. The Government provided initial capital
of US$61,000, and allocates an annual2subsidy (US$77,340 in 1977).  Weavers
workini for OMA were paid US$50 per m . Since a weaver normally produces about
2.18 m per month, her earnings were approximately US$109, which is above the
average earning of other artisans (US$67) and the min?mum wage for skilled
labor2(US$95). The carpets were sold at US$112 per m (for 40,000 knots
per m quality).
50.       OMA did not function effectively, suffering particularly from
inadequate financing and management. Its budget was not enough to cover
needs in raw materials and equipment. Added to the shortage of financing was
the enormous level of clients' arrears (mainly the State's) in payments for
purchases (para. 67).  Shortage of funds meant lack of raw materials which
sometimes left weavers unemployed for periods of up to six months. Moreover,
too many artisans were grouped in one workshop (80 weavers in Nouakchott
workshop) which caused serious problems of coordination and supervision.
Long distances between the workshops and workers' residences also caused
severe commuting difficulties. For all these reason2, production declined
continuously from 1973, and by 1977 was only 1,500 m per annum, half of the
1972 production. Weavers became demoralized: experienced weavers left the
industry, while CFAT's newly-trained sought jobs as secretaries and office
workers. The proposed project would help meet the urgent need to strengthen
management of carpet production, improve its financial position, and decen-
tralize production by establishing small production units within walking
distance of weavers' homes.  This assistance is expected to result in an
increase in carpet production much beyond its previous high level, and in the
continued growth and development of the carpet industry.
51.       Institutional Framework.  In an effort to coordinate the production
and training functions of the artisan sector, and to link these to the promo-
tion and development of tourism, the Government established in February 1979
a new public enterprise, the Office Mauritanien de l'Artisanat et du Tourisme
(OMAT) as the central body for these activities. The management structure
and role of OMA and CFAT remain as described in paras. 48-50 above, but
they have ceased to exist as separate institutions; instead they have been



- 17 -
integrated into OMAT as independent departments responsible for carpet pro-
duction and artisan training respectively. Therefore, although the project
preparation activities for the proposed artisan component have been carried
out by OMA and CFAT, they are referred to later in this report under their
new names within the OMAT organization. Despite this institutional change,
the Government has provided assurances that carpet production and training
will be developed as conceived at project appraisal (Section 4.07 of draft
Development Credit Agreement).
D.   The Agriculture Sector
52.       Although three-quarters of Mauritania is in the Sahara zone (less
than 100 mm of annual rainfall), the agricultural sector contributes about
30 percent of GDP and employs 80 percent of the working population. Approx-
imately 80 percent of the rural population is engaged in nomadic herding, and
the rest in sedentary agriculture. The droughts of 1972/73 have had devestat-
ing effects on livestock, particularly cattle whose numbers decreased by more
than 40 percent. The sector's slow recovery from this drought was again
halted by the drought of 1976/77. In normal years, however, production of
millet and sorghum reaches about 60,000 tons, covering 75 percent of domestic
requirements; rice production, on the other hand, meets only about 15 percent
of estimated local needs.
53.       Following creation of the Societe Nationale de Developpement Rurale
(SONADER) in 1975, the Government made a determined effort to substantially
increase assistance to the agricultural sector. Its main objective iwas to
increase food production and reduce the country's dependence on international
food aid, and to provide farmers a steady income sufficient to satisfy their
basic needs. Three major constraints to the development of agriculture were
identified: unfavorable climatic conditions, shortage of qualified staff and
managers, and lack of credit facilities. In the 1976-80 Five Year Plan, the
identification and preparation of irrigation projects were given top priority
in the rural sector. Government also allocated to SONADER the responsibility
for preparing and implementing specific rural development projects which
would be free from the encumbrance of traditionally slow bureaucratic pro-
cedures. However, the organization of agricultural credit was complicated by
inadequate extension services and the nomadic habits of the rural population.
54.       SONADER was launched with an initial capital of US$600,000 equiva-
lent, plus a budgetary allocation of US$667,000 subscribed entirely by the
Government. For 1978, SONADER expected another allocation of US$889,000.
Its largest single source of external financing so far has been IDA which in
1977 provided a US$3.5 million credit for technical assistance (Cr. 694-MAU),
but SONADER has also received aid from Canada, USA, and the Federal Republic
of Germany. SONADER employs 72 persons, including 22 senior professionals,
10 of whom are expatriates. Its main departments deal with administration,
finance, studies and works, project implementation, national laboratory
for soil analysis, and coordination of projects and land use. While SONADER's
activities have so far concentrated on establishing itself as a viable insti-
tution, the works that it has undertaken (small-scale irrigation and prepara-
tion of the proposed project) were done efficiently. Since SONADER is the



- 18 -
only competent agency in the rural sector, the Government is likely to in-
crease its responsibilities. To avoid overstraining SONADER staff, it is
planned that each future project be provided with technical assistance and
a project manager of its own; this is the case for the proposed operation
(para. 69).
SONADER's Village Irrigation Schemes (VIS)
55.       Following a development of 360 ha financed by the Fonds Europeen de
Developpement (FED) between 1972 and 1975, SONADER completed in 1977 the first
five areas of a second group of VIS (total of 61.5 ha) financed by the French
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and brought them under cultivation. The
average yield was a satisfactory 4.75 t/ha. Due to lack of infrastructure
around these villages and the weakness of the Government's cereal marketing
agency, SONADER has taken on the responsibility of marketing the products of
its VIS.
56.       SONADER also introduced a quasi-credit system through village coop-
eratives. It provided extension services, pumps, and other equipment necessary
for construction of irrigation schemes. In some cases SONADER retained owner-
ship of the equipment, so that although farmers were charged for its deprecia-
tion, they did not feel responsible for its care and maintenance. For the
first season, all inputs were provided, sometimes as grants and sometimes
as credit in kind, but without interest. These incentives were considered
necessary to encourage irrigation development, but have been established on
a trial basis only as the Government realized the difficulty of pursuing this
policy over the long term. Under the proposed project, all equipment would
be transferred to approved farmers from the beginning, and they would receive
credit to purchase it. Seasonal credit would also be provided for agricul-
tural inputs (para. 68).
Farmers' Village Cooperatives Societies
57.       These are self-governing societies in which farmers pool their re-
sources to develop the VIS, to receive technical assistance from SONADER and
external donor agencies, and to own or operate a water pump in common. Pay-
ment of an entry fee is generally a precondition of membership, and communal
expenses of the society are financed through annual levies or subscriptions.
Each society's day-to-day affairs are governed by well-established rules,
while SONADER's services to farmers are governed by detailed contracts signed
by the society's President and Committee, and by each farmer. The proposed
agricultural component of the present project would work through these exist-
ing societies (para. 69).
Water Resources and Water Rights
58.       All VIS depend on water pumped from the Senegal River.  The amount
of water diverted for use by the VIS is not significant; nevertheless, in
accordance with the Convention of March 11, 1972 between the Governments of
Mauritania, Senegal, and Mali governing use of the Senegal River waters, the
Government has informed the Water Rights Commission of OMVS (Organisation
pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal) of its plans to develop the irri-
gation schemes proposed under the present project.



- 19 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
59.       The proposed project was identified by an IDA mission whichi visited
Mauritania in October 1977. Following preparation work carried out by the
Government, SON.-DER, and consultants, appraisal took place in March 1978.
In view of identified needs for pre-project implementation activities and
the Government's serious financial constraints, the Association has approved
advances from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) up to US$323,500 to
help meet the costs of technical assistance to the project institutions,
including services for the proposed brick industry study. Negotiations for
the proposed Credit were held in Nouakchott in February 1979 with a Govern-
ment delegation headed by Mr. M'Rabih Rabou Ould Cheik Bouneina, Director of
Financing and Cooperation in the Ministry of Planning. The Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 2228a-MAU dated March 12, 1979) is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors.
A.   Project Description
60.       The proposed project will provide financial and technical assistance
under separate operations to three sectors -- small- and medium-scale indus-
tries (SMIs), artisans, and small village irrigated agriculture. The overall
aim of the project is to relieve urban and rural poverty by creating increased
employment and income opportunities in these sectors; additionally, the
project will allow needed improvements in sector policy, administrative
procedures, and institution-building. Details of proposed assistance to the
various sectors are as follows:
Industrial Component - Assistance to SMIs
61.       A primary objective of this component is to increase urban employ-
ment through encouragement of labor-intensive and capital-saving industrial
techniques. The proposed assistance will consist of:
(i) A US$2.1 million line of credit to finance medium- and
long-term loans to specified categories of SMIs (as
defined in para. 62 below);
(ii) Three man-years of technical assistance to establish a
Development Department in BMDC to identify, prepare, and
appraise new SMIs, and to meet the costs of overseas
training of BMDC senior staff; and
(iii) Consulting services for feasibility studies to establish
an industrial zone in Nouakchott, and for a gypsum plaster
brick industry.
62.       To help meet the objective of increasing employment, 40 percent
of the line of credit will be devoted to high job-creation projects having a
cost per job no higher than US$7,500 equivalent; the remaining 60 percent will
be for average job-creation projects having a cost per job above $7,500 but



- 20 -
not exceeding $25,000. Proposed SMIs would have initial total project invest-
ment not exceeding UM 45 million (US$ 1 million equivalent). Beneficiaries
-n the first category above would be able to borrow up to 90% of estimated
total project costs, and those in the second category up to 75% of total costs
(Section 2.02 (b) of draft Credit Agreement). As discussed in para. 45, all
projects applying for privileges under the revised Investment Code will be
appraised and supervised by CEPI, while the Investment Commission will approve
pri-;ileges to projects costing less than US$2 million. CEPI will also
cooperate with BMDC's planned Development Department in the appraisal and
financing of new SMIs.
63.       The industrial zone study is proposed because Government has iden-
tified the lack of such a properly equipped zone as a major constraint to
development of SMIs. The proposed Credit includes an allocation of US$60,000
for a feasibility study by CEPI to establish the first real industrial zone
in Nouakchott with all essential facilities, and under CEPI's own management.
The feasibility study to establish a plaster brick industry is proposed as
an attempt to find a viable alternative to the very expensive imported cement
which causes construction costs in Mauritania to be among the highest in West
Africa. The proposed Credit will finance about four man-months of consulting
services (costing about US$30,000 equivalent) under the Government housing
institution SOCOGIM, to determine the feasibility of artisanal brick produc-
tion using gypsum readily available in the Nouakchott area.
Assistance to Artisans
64.       The objective of this component is to rehabilitate and expand the
production of knotted carpets, by decentralizing production and improving
the training of weavers. Financial and technical assistance to be provided
will help resolve three of the major problems encountered by artisans --
availability of funds to import raw materials, access to workshop space, and
guidance on how to capitalize on the large market (now mostly domestic, but
expected to become increasingly international).
65.       The project will provide one man-year of technical assistance to
improve the existing training program and upgrade teachers of OMAT's artisan
training department (para. 48). The training program will be shortened from
three years to two, and the annual vacation period reduced from four months to
one month. The age limits for recruitment of women will be broadened from the
current 16-18 to 18-30. The expanded training effort will provide skills not
only in carpet-weaving, but also in basic reading, writing and arithmetic,
to help prepare weavers for managing their own workshops.  In addition, the
Credit will provide financing for scholarships, equipment, and imported raw
materials, availability of which would allow a doubling of enrollment from 100
to 200. It is expected that 300 weavers would be trained during the three-year
project period, with the last 100 completing their training one year after
project completion.
66.       Under the proposed project, carpet production will be decentralized
by encouraging establishment of private production units, but work will re-
main labor-intensive. US$60,000 of Credit funds will be passed on to OMAT's



- 21 -
carpet production department as a grant to be relent to weavers as medium-term
credit in kind to finance purchases of looms and necessary equipment to set up
production units; an additional US$223,000 will be made available to establish
a revolving fund for artisans to use as short-term credit in kind to assure
the continuous supply of raw materials. Both credits will be accorded to
artisans at 8.5 percent (para. 74). The production department will buy all
carpets at a previously established price which wil1 leave the weaver with a
net return of not less than UM 2,250 (US$50) per m after paying all his
weaving expenses and debts to the department (Section 4.04 of draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
67.       The proposed IDA2Credit will also finance construction of 36 small
workshops (each about 40 m ) to house the production units. These workshops
will become the property of the State, but maintenance would continue to be
the occupants' responsibility. The project also provides three man years of
technical assistance to strengthen management and accounting of the carpet
production department, to seek cheap sources of raw materials, and to develop
markets. About 12 fellowships will be awarded for training of Mauritanian
technical assistants to advise weavers in the production units on improving
their own management, and setting up individual accounting systems. To assure
the effective functioning of the production department under the project, the
Government has initiated the necessary procedures to liquidate all its out-
standing debts to the department, estimated at US$62,000 equivalent. OMAT
has also provided assurances that it will in future limit the credit period
on sales of its carpet production department to not more than three months
(Section 4.05 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Assistance for Small-Scale Agriculture
68.       The project will provide financial and technical assistance to help
SONADER establish 30 new irrigated farms under village cooperatives control-
ling individual lots. It will also enable SONADER to provide the first
thorough-going agricultural credit system in Mauritania, and would include:
(i) a long-term loan (10 years, including one year of grace) to each coopera-
tive covering the cost of two horizontal centrifugal pumps; and (ii) a short-
term revolving credit (normally 12 months) to finance purchases of fertilizer,
insecticide, and seed, as well as fuel, lubricants, and spare parts used by
the cooperatives' pumps. All credit will be in kind. Credit repayments to
SONADER will be used to set up a permanent revolving credit fund to repeat
the operation in other areas (Section 4.06 of draft Credit Agreement).
69.       The agricultural component of the project will be largely run by
established self-governing cooperatives. SONADER's function will be to
oversee and advise on all agricultural activities with a view to maximizing
productivity; to provide technical assistance both in construction of irriga-
tion works and subsequent farm management and other agricultural services; and
to extend credit in kind and recover it through the sale of rice produced by
the farmers. The partnership between SONADER and the village cooperatives
has been operating successfully for the last two years in at least 19 village
irrigated schemes (VIS); under the proposed project, ten new VIS will be



- 22 -
started each year and developed over three years, leading to completion of
full development of the last ten VIS in the fifth year of the project. The
expatriate technical experts assigned to the proposed project are incremental
to SONADER's present staff complement financed partly under the ongoing IDA
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 695-MAU). The services they will provide
are clearly identifiable and justified specifically for the VIS operations.
70.        The proposed irrigation works will enable a double crop of rice
each year. As in ongoing works on similar irrigated perimeters, the land will
be cleared and terraced by the farmers themselves, and levelled by hand.  The
average family can be expected to comfortably handle about 0.3 ha for cultiva-
tion during the rainy season, and about 0.1 ha in the dry season. These
limits are determined by the fact that VIS operations are seen as complemetary
to, rather than competitive with, other agricultural activities, especially
rainfed-farming, flood-plain farming, and stock-raising. The project also
provides for purchase of chemical fertilizer to be applied to the farm lands;
and, at 5 t/ha, the project would be expected, at full development, to result
in an incremental production of 3,000 tons of paddy a year.
B.   Project Costs and Financing
71.        The total cost of the proposed project (net of taxes) is estimated
at US$8.9 million equivalent, including foreign exchange costs of US$6.8 mil-
lion (about 76 percent). Local taxes are equivalent at US$0.4 million equiva-
lent for the industrial and artisan components (all imports of equipment and
material for the agricultural sector in Mauritania are tax-exempt. The esti-
mated project cost includes physical contingencies applied at 10 percent of
base costs (as estimated at project appraisal in March 1978), and price con-
tingencies at an average rate of 6.5 percent per annum in 1978 and 1979, and
6 percent thereafter; however, following normal practice for standard IDF
projects, no contingencies are included for the industrial line of credit or
the estimated counterpart contribution of the entrepreneurs. The average cost
for the services of expatriate technical staff, based on recent recruitment
experiences of international organizations and the Government, is estimated
at US$8,800 per man-month (including travel and housing allowances), reflect-
ing the high cost of French-speaking consultants in general, and the difficult
living and working conditions in Mauritania in particular.
72.        The proposed IDA Credit of US$8.0 million will cover 100 percent
of foreign costs plus about 57 percent of tax-free local costs, equivalent
to about 89 percent of total project costs net of taxes. The comparatively
high IDA cost-sharing arrangement is recommended in view of the Government's
difficult public finance situation caused by drought, political problems in
the North, and a depressed iron ore market. Local contributions will there-
fore be limited to about US$1.3 million equivalent, representing contributions
from private entrepreneurs who would be sub-borrowers of BMDC (about US$0.75
million), and a Government participation of US$0.55 million equivalent. Retro-
active financing under the proposed Credit is recommended up to US$330,000 for
project implementation operations which did not qualify for financing under
the PPF; these represent technical assistance and raw materials purchase for
OMAT's training and production departments, and workshop construction costs
for the latter.



- 23 -
Financial Intermediation and On-lending Terms
73.       The proposed Credit will be made to the Government.  Credit proceeds
intended for on-lending will be passed through BMDC, the financial intermediary
for credit aspects of the project.
(a) Assistance to SMIs
-    Funds for on-lending to SMIs (US$2.1 million) will be
re-lent by Government to BMDC on terms corresponding
to the aggregate of the amortization schedules for
BMDC's sub-loans (none of which will exceed 15 years),
with interest at 7 percent per annum. BMDC will
on-lend these funds to SMIs at 11 percent (plus
1 percent foreign exchange fee, para. 72), leaving a
4 percent spread which is considered satisfactory.
-    Financing for technical assistance to BMDC and overseas
training costs of its senior staff will be made avail-
able as a grant.
-    Financing for the industrial zone study will be paid
direct to the Ministry of Industry, and for the brick
industry study to the selected consultants with approval
of the Government housing institution SOCOGIM.
(b) Assistance to Artisans
-    Financing for OMAT's production department (including
on-lending to artisans) and its training department will
be paid as a grant to that institution through its account
in BMDC.
(c) Assistance for Smallholder Agriculture
-    Financing for SONADER (including on-lending to farmers)
will be paid as a grant to SONADER's account in BMDC.
Credit funds include provision for SONADER overheads.
74.       On-lending to artisans (US$0.28 million) and farmers (US$1.1 million)
will be at 8.5% interest, the preferential rate currently applied nationwide
to these poorer segments of the population as a demonstration of the Govern-
ment's strong intention to encourage their development. Repayments from
farmers and artisans will be used by SONADER and OMAT respectively to set
up permanent revolving funds to repeat operations similar to those under the
project elsewhere in the country. All the above arrangements for lending and
relending have been discussed and agreed with the Government and the benefi-
ciaries (Sections 3.01 and 4.06, and Annexes A and B to Schedule 2 of draft
Development Credit Agreement).
75.       There will be no commitment charges between the Government and
BMDC, SONADER, and OMAT, or between these institutions and final borrowers,
except that BMDC will charge its normal commitment fee to beneficiaries from



- 24 -
the industrial line of credit. All foreign exchange risks will be borne
by the Government, but BMDC's industrial sub-borrowers will pay Government
annually 1 percent fee (Section 3.01(c) of draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). In order to allow BMDC protection against foreign exchange risks on
all future external borrowings, assurances have been provided that an appro-
piiate paragraph to this effect will be introduced in its Policy Statement
(Section 3.05 of draft Project Agreement).
C.   Project Implementation
Procurement
76.       The only project inputs suitable for international competitive bid-
ding (ICB) are the irrigation pumps (about US$0.95 million). Procurement
of these items will therefore be subject to ICB procedures following adver-
tisements in foreign embassies in Nouakchott, and in 'Development Forum'.
All other project goods and services will be procured following competitive
bidding under local Government procedures acceptable to the Association
(Sections 2.03, 3.03, and Schedule 3 of draft Development Credit Agreement,
and Section 2.09 of draft Project Agreement).
Disbursement
77.       Disbursement requests for the three sub-components will be sub-
mitted directly to the Association by the responsible institutions, but all
reimbursements will be made through BMDC acting as overall project accountant.
Disbursements for equipment, pumps and vehicles will be fully documented. All
other disbursements (e.g. salaries, miscellaneous goods and services), will
be made against statements of expenditures, with the supporting documentation
retained by the responsible institution and held available for inspection
during the course of supervision missions. The accounting systems and the
staff of the various implementing institutions are sufficiently competent to
prepare the required statements of expenditure and supporting documentation.
Details of procedures to be followed have been discussed, and will be spelled
out in the disbursement letter from the Association to the Borrower following
Credit approval. All BMDC industrial sub-loans intended for refinancing under
the Credit will be documented to the satisfaction of the Association, and an
appraisal report on the proposed investment will be submitted to the Associa-
tion for review and approval prior to disbursement (Section 2.02 (b) of draft
Development Credit Agreement, and Sections 2.02 and 2.03 of draft Project
Agreement). The industrial line of credit will be disbursed against 90
percent of total costs for high job creation industries, and 75 percent
of total costs for average job creation industries (para. 62). All other
financing will be disbursed against 100 percent of total costs, except for
non-consulting operating expenses of OMAT's training department which will
be disbursed against 50 percent of total costs (Schedule 1 of draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).



- 25 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
78.       Project execution is expected to start by mid-1979, and to take
about five years to complete. The project makes no provision for a formalized
coordinating unit; however, the proposal to centralize project accounting
in BMDC is to ensure that there exists in Mauritania at least a complete
financial record of project operations. Actual monitoring of the various
sub-components will be achieved through semi-annual reports to be prepared
by BMDC, OMAT, and SONADER on their respective IDA-financed activities, plus
annual audited accounts of all activities of each institution; assurances
have been provided that the latter will be submitted to the Association for
review not later than nine months following the end of the accounting period
(Section 4.01 of draft Development Credit Agreemnent, and Sections 2.04, 3.01,
and 3.02 of draft Project Agreement). Each institution will also be expected
to prepare its contribution to the Project Completion Report, the form and
content of which would be agreed in due course between project supervision
missions and the respective implementing institutions (Section 3.05 of draft
Development Credit Agreement).
D.   Financial, Economic, and Social Justification
79.       The proposed project is expected to generate over the long term
improvements in sector policy, administrative procedures, and institution-
building which would have far-reaching effects on the productivity and incomes
of much of Mauritania's disadvantaged populations, although the full extent
of these benefits cannot yet be accurately quantified.  Significant quanti-
fiable benefits would be achieved over the life of the project. The indus-
trial component would result in increased productivity, employment (approx-
imately 175 new jobs), and foreign exchange savings in that sector. Bene-
ficiaries have not been sufficiently well identified to allow a meaningful
assessment of financial or economic returns on their investments. Su,ch cal-
culations would be built into the appraisal techniques of both CEPI and BMDC,
and benefits would be confirmed during the Association's sub-project review.
There is a promising project pipeline, and the proposed project is expected
to assure sound investments by creating an adequate environment for their
development, establishing good operating procedures, and making land and
services available. Implementation of the artisan comgonent would allow an
increase in carpet production from 1,500 m to 7,800 m a year, and would
create about 300 new jobs at an average cost per job of $2,600, which is about
$200 below the urban poverty threshold for Mauritania. The component is
expected to yield a financial return of about 17 percent, and an economic
return of 22 percent over 20 years. The agricultural component is parti-
cularly urgent in view of the severe drought of 1977 and the acute food
shortage in 1978. The project would increase rice paddy production by about
3,000 tons a year, and create about 70 additional days of work annually for
each of about 1,800 small-scale farmers. The component is expected to yield
over 10 years a financial return of about 40 percent and an economic return of
about 31 percent.



- 26 -
Cost Recovery
80.       The extent of cost recovery, while considerable, would nevertheless
be geared to be ability of project beneficiaries to pay. For example, the
SMIs would pay the full interest (11 percent) and charges of BMDC. The
artisans would repay all production costs (for looms and raw materials) to OMA
with interest; the subsidies implicit in the provision of rent-free workshops
and technical assistance is justified by the modest income level of these
project beneficiaries. The farmers will construct irrigation channels them-
selves and would repay SONADER all costs (except for expatriate and local
technical assistance to carry out initial design and launching of the irriga-
tion schemes); however, net income to farmers would still be substantially
above the agricultural minimum wage.
Project Risks
81.       The principal risk associated with the proposed project is that,
while none of the institutions (other than CEPI) is being asked to undertake
any new activities, each is required under the project to perform its exist-
ing functions better.   However, since none of the project sectors or institu-
tions (except agriculture and SONADER) has ever benefitted directly from Bank
Group assistance, several new sectoral orientations and policies had to be
introduced during project preparation in order to facilitate Bank Group
intervention. The speed of project implementation among the various compo-
nents is therefore likely to be rather uneven.
82.       A second risk, which is common to all projects designed for indi-
vidual participation, is that ultimately their success depends on the par-
ticular responses of a large number of people, which necessarily implies a
certain element of unpredictability. Nevertheless, all implementing insti-
tutions are being provided with technical assistance considered necessary to
achieve project objectives, and each institution would be separately respon-
sible for a particular sub-component, the success of which is independent of
the performance of the other institutions and components.
83.       In spite of the risks as stated above, there is nevertheless a
clear rationale for proposing as a single operation what are in effect three
separate projects: (i) there exists an obligation, in the face of generally
weak institutions in Mauritania and the poor experience of the Bank Group
in trying to build new ones, to meet the immediate needs for development
assistance by using the best of the existing institutions, thereby minimizing
the risk; and (ii) it is considered important to expose BMDC, through its
accounting for the sub-components, to the realities of development banking
beyond its present horizons. Execution of this project will present the
opportunity for evaluating BMDC's new Development Department and determining
whether an integrated development fund in BMDC could eventually be possible.
If this judgement turns out to be unfavorable, at least the existing arrange-
ments could be continued in a second rural and urban development project.



- 27 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
84.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Association and the Islamic
Republic of Mauritania, the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and the Banque Mauritanienne pour le Developpement et le Commerce, and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Annex III, Section III. Additional conditions of effectiveness
provided for in Section 6.01 of the Credit Agreement include: (i) conclusion
of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and BMDC under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association (para. 36); (ii)
amendment of the Investment Code -- the text of the specific amendments to be
made has been agreed with the Government (para. 43); and (iii) furnishing to
the Association of audited accounts of BMDC with respect to its fiscal year
ended December 31, 1977 (para. 34).
85.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
86.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 15, 1979



- 28 -                                          ANNEX I
KAURITANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REnREENCE RtOUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MAURITANIA                                            L
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. DM.)                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL          1030.7                                                  SAME        SqAE    NET HIGHR
AGRICULTURAL    402.6                                HDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCUE        INCOME
1960 Lk    1970 / ESTIMATE a        LI0N        GROUP Gd ROUP La
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 70.0       160.0    270.0            223.6      432.3      867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL E0UIVALENT)     18.0       144.0    108.0            86.7      251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        1.1         1.3       1.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 8.0        14.2      20.9            13.6       24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                       1.0         1.2       1.4            18.4       42.7       50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     2.7         3.2       3.7            53.6      95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YQS.                        41.6        41.8      41.9            44.4      44.9        42.9
15-64 YRS.                        55.2       55.1       55.0           52.7       52.8        53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.2         3.1       3.1             2.8        3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             0.8 /f      1.8       2.5 /f          2.6        2.7         2.5
URBAN                              ..         7.8       8.2             5.8        8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.8        44.9      44.8            46.9       42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.1        24.7      24.9            20.6       12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         2.9       2.9             3.1        3.2         2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WIHEN)   ..          ..        ..             2.5       14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROWCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)           100.0       100.0      73.5            94.2      104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  85.0        87.0      81.0            90.1       99.5       105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         73.0        75.0      63.2            55.2       56.8        63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        ..        44.0  &     ..            17.1       17.5        21.7
CHIID (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    34.0 /h       ..        ..             ..         7.5         8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   35.9        41.0      38.5            43.7      53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         187.0          ..    169.0            138.4       82.5       53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        17.0        ..            22.4      31.1        56.8
URBAN                              ..        98.0        ..            66.3       68.5        79.0
RURAL                              ..        10.0        ..            10.4       18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRFTA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         7.0        ..            23.9       37.5       30.9
URBAN                              ..       100.0        ..            70.3       69.5       45.4
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..            14.2       25.4       16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        30000.0 /I  17210.0   15150.0         21757.5    9359.2      2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    7130.0 Lj.  4320.0   2450.0           3473.8    2762.5      1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          4140.0 /ik 2760.0 A 2320.0             645.4      786.5      493.9
URBAN                              ..       500.0 h  600.0            172.9      278.4      229.6
RURAL                              ..      5320.0   3628.0           1292.6    1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..            19.2       19.2       22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..             4.9        ..         5.2
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..             5.0        ..         5.0
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..             4.7        ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..             ..         ..          2.0
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..             ..         2.3         1.5
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..             ..         ..         2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..       28.3       64.1
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..              ..        ..         67.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..       10.3       34.1



-ANNEX I
-   29  -                                           Page 2
IEADUTAIIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFrERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MMIDRITANIA                                            a
- M4OST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /      1970 /b ESTIMATE lb      REGION Lc   GROUP Ld    GROUP Lt
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                  8.0        16.0      17.0            52.1       75.8         99.8
FEMALE                3.0         9.0       9.0            37.6       67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  0.4         2.0       3.0             8.0       17.7         33.8
FEMALE                 ..         1.0       1.0             5.0        12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 12.0        12.0      15.7             7.2        7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           20.0        24.0        ..            43.2       34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                         17.0        23.0        *-            22.8       23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        5.0        10.0        ..            20.3       63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.4         4.0       4.0 ;1          3.9        7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        16.0        47.0      64.0            40.1        71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..             2.2        14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..          ..        ..             3.9        16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..             1.2         1.6         4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      310.0       360.0     400.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   3.9         6.3       4.3            32.6       28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             91.0        87.5      85.0            73.3       54.1        46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 2.9         3.9        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.1        31.3      30.9            42.0       37.8         33.8
MALE                                62.1        60.5      59.9            54.8       50.3         48.1
FEMALE                               2.5         2.6       2.6            27.3       20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4         1.4       1.3             1.2         1.3         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..            25.7        19.5        23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..        ..            55.1       48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..             5.8        5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..            14.5        15.7        13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..           108.8       155.9       191.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      85.0            74.1       97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     125.0           124.4       143.7       319.8
RURAL                               ..          ..      65.0            59.6       87.3        197.7
ESTYImATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      50.0            26.8        22.9        19.8
RURAL                               ..          ..      45.0            47.6        36.7        35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;  /d  Lower Middle Income  (S281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle
Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976); /f Difference between IBED population growth rate and U.N. rate of natural
increase due to use of different census bases;  /R  1964-66;   /h  1964-65;   /i  1962;   /I Government
personnel only;  /k  Government hospital establishments only;  L1  1972.
September 1.978



- 30-
ANNEY I
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                        P.&. 3
K=g; The adjusted group averages for each iodicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the Indicator and the soot
populated couotry is *..h group. Coverage of countrie s mg the indiestora depends on av-ilability of data oan i. sot usifom. D.. to leek of d.ta.
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicstore of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution aod poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric masse vithout the eaclusion of extrem values.
LAND AREA (thoumend sq. be                                                                  Population per hospital bed - total, urban, sod tutal - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising lend areas end inland waters,                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective cuohe- of hc.a-             beds
Agricultural - Most recent  estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public and private general and epecialised hospital and rs-
or permanently f or crops, postures, market end kitchen gardens or to                      habilitation centers.  Hospitals are astablisheeste permanently staffed by
IIe fallom.                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
tare are not included. Rural hospitalm. however, include health and eadi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$9) - GNEP par capita astimatee  at current market pricee,                  cal centers mar permanently staffed by a physician  (but by a medical as-
calculated by sa, conversion method as World Rank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  sistent, nurse. midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient eccmeodation end
1960, 1970, and 1977 date,                                                                provide a limited rgang  of meodical facilities.
Admissions oar hospital bed - Total number of edmissions to or discharges
ZERIGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annua  consumption of coemmrcial energy                       from  hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal end lignite, petroleum, natural gas and bydro-, nuclear and gep-
thermal electricity) in kilogram  of coal equivalent per capita.                      ROUSING
Average sine of house.hold (persous per household) - total, urban, and rurgl-
POPULATION PAD VITAL. STATILSTICS                                                             A household consista of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total p ulation. mi-ye_    miins  - As of July 1; if not available,                        end their mein meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
averae oftwo e-yer esimtes; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                               the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban moulation (percent of total)I - Ratio of urban to total popula-                        hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comiparability                    Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average nom-
of data amng countries,                                                                   bar okf persons per room  in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Pouaindnit,                                                                         duellinse, respectively.  Dwellinas .olud. n-prae t-strutres and
- Nd-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                    usoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Acceas to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban. ard rural -
Per sq. be. eariculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Conventional dvellings with electricity In living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, sod rural dwellings respectively.
Population &as structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                 EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adlusted enrollment ratios
Population grovth rate (percent) - total. and urban - Compound a-ua                       Primary school - total. and female - Total and femal  enro11leent of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations f or 1950-60,                        at the primary level as percentages of respectively, primary school-ege
1960710, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousan.d of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with univeroal edu-
aid-year population; tan-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment may *oceed 100 percent since some pupils are below  or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for meet recant estimate,                       above the official ochool age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Anna"l deaths per thousand of aid-                      Secondary school - total. and female - Computed an above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average soding in 1975 for mast recen.t estimate.                           vides general1 voca.tional, or teac.her training  instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rats - Average number of daughters a woman will hear                      uoually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal raproductive period if ash  experiences present age-                        excluded.
specific fertility rates; usa"lly five-year "avrages ending in 1960,                    Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational lostitutiona  In-
1970. end 1975.                                                                           elude technical, industrial. or other prograns which operate independently
Famlly planisl - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual nomber of                            or as departments of secondary institutions..
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio  - prinery, and secondary - Total students enrolled In
planning Program.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by nonbers of teachers In the corre-
Fenily plennina - users (percent of married wos)-Percen.tage of                              spondina levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who us. birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (perrect) - Literate adu1to  (able to read and write) a.
devicss to all married women in same age group,                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 11 years end over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
Index of food pr-oduction per capita (1970-100) - Index nuoher of per                    Passen ger cern (per thousand popuaition) - Pa..nenger cars coapriso actor cars
capita  annual production of all food c-modities.                                       seating less than eight Persona; excludes embulanceo, hearses sod military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirasants) - Computed from                   vehicles.
enery equivalent of net food supplies available in coontry per c..pica                 Radio reoiv-r  (per tho.....d population) - All typen of rec..ivnre  for radio
per day.  Available supplies cosprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcasts to general public per thoueand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies excluds aninal feed, needs,                receivero In countrien and in years when regiotration of radio set. wan in
quantities used In fond processing, and lbasso  in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since soot countries
quirements were estimated by PAO based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
mel activity and health considering enviromnental ten~peratore, body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivern  for broadcast to gsnerd
wsigbts.  age and se. distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; .ocluden unlicensed TV receivern  in coon-
cent for waste at household level,                                                        tries and In yearn when registration of TV nets w.as in effect.
Per caPit. supply of.pnraine(grams, p.r day) - Pr.teis content of Per                    Newspaper cruain(p.r thounand population) - Shown tho averag  circulo-
capits net supply of foo   er day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest newpaper', defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primsrily to recording.genersl news.  It is cons.idered to
a minimum allowance of 60 gram  of total protein per day and 20 gcams                     he "daily" if it appears st least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which II grass should be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendance Per capita per year - Based on the comber of tickets
These standards are lmowr than those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                       units.
FAO In the Third World Food Survey.
Per c.pit. protein supply from  animlod and pul.a - Protein supply of food              EMPLOYMNTN
derived from  animals and pulses in grass per day.                                     Total labor force (thousand.) - toonomirally active persons, including armed
Child (sass 1-4) mortality race (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forres an3d unemployed but socluding housewives, students, etc.  Oafi.in-
and in age group 1-4 years. to children in this age group.                                tions in various countries are not comparable.
Pemel  (percent) - Femal  lsbor force as percentage of total labor forc..
HEALTH                                                                                    Ariculture (percent) - Lbabr force in farming. forontry. hunting aod fishing
Life eapetotncy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total lsbor forc..
remining st birth; usualiy five-year averages ending in 1960. 1970.                    Industry (Percent) - Labor finne in mining, conotrocti-., manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity. vetan  and gas as yrrconrage of tota1l Ibo- fort.
Infant wortality rate (per thou.and) - Annual deaths of infantn under                    Participation rate (percent) - total. male, and femle - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                 female labor forc  an poen ..tagen of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of  .poplation)_ -_tta.1  urbean,nd rural -                    These are  no,. adjusted participotion rat.. reflectini  ge-sex
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                      structorn of the popul.tion, ond long time trend.
safe water supply (includea treated surface waters or untreated hut                    Econneic dependency ratic - Ratio of population under i5 and 65 sod .-r  to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                       the labor force in age group of 15-64 yraco.
sod sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
Io n   urban area a public fountain or otandpost loca.ted not eons                    INCOME DISTRIBUIJION
than 200 meters from a house soy be considered as being within tea-                    Percentage of Private inton.e (both in cash aud kind) received by nioh.ot 5
.onable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 2i percent, and poorest 4i percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                       of households.
spend a disproportionate pant of the day in fetching the fanily's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total. urban. and                   Eotimated abeolute poverty income level (10$ per capi~ta) - ucan ~and rur~al 
rural - Number of people (ota.t1  urban, and rural) served by 4-cota                        Absolute Poverty income level in that income 1-ve  below which 0 sinisai
diuposel as psc..entages of their  -ep.ctivs populations.  Eocnste                         --ritionai1yadeq.ute diet pins osuentia1 non-food r.q,iren..nts in not
dispol m.aI.y include the collection and disposal , with or without                       affordable.
treatoent, of human excrete and waste-water by voter-borne systems                     Istineted relative poverty 100  level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural-
or ths use of pit privieo end similar installations.                                      Relstlus poverty inoose level Is that income level less then one-third
Population per physician - population divided by number of practicing                        per capita personal income of the country.
physicinan  quelifiled from a medical school at university level.                      Estimated Population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural-
Population per nursing Person - Population divided by number of                              Percent uf population (urban sand rural) who one either "absolute pour" of
practicing male and female graduate nuo..e.. practical nurses, and                        "relative poor" whichever is greater.
ass iutont nurses.
Econom.ic and Social Doats Divi.ion
fEcono..ic Analysis sod Projections Department



- 31 -                                                             ANNEX I
-                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 4
ECONOMIC D WYEDP?2NT DATA
(Amounts in million. of U.S. dollars)
-1  Acttal_                       ProJected    __        5'73-   1975      1975 -   195         9       19-     19
17973    197 5     1977        197t      19d5    1990       19j75    1977      1985     1990      17        97     19
IAT tONAL ACCOCIINTS
Gross Domestic Product              -Yea-Aver-   e at 4977         Prices & Exchange Ratei        Aerage Anr,ual Growth Rates          As Percent cf GDY
Gress Domcsto Product  Ti. 1    .9    45          460.0      -5965 69"          112      11 .a.                      96.5     9.69.
Gait,s from Terms of Trad  (+)      14.8      28.4       2.0       - 8.3      37.2    63.3        .        .         .         .       3.5      o.4   8.4
Grose Domestic Income              . 9         V! 76.0             5r    7 E          T7  f      5.6    -1.7        4.1       3.5    100,0   105.0 100.0
Import (incl. NFS)                 249.3    351.5    374.6         378.3    321.9   379.8       18.7      3.2     -1.9       3.4      58.4    81.4  50.4
Exports   "  (import capacity)   225.2    220.7    182.9           i69,7    314.8   351.4       -1.0    -8.9        7.0      2.2      52.8    39.1  46.6
Resource Gap                         V-1T  -1930.    -191.7       -20.6       -7.1   -2           .        .         .            ,7 I7 -1.7
Constumption Expenditures          353.7    427.6    420.0         438.2    520.3   640.5        9.9    -0.9        2.7       4.3     82.8    91.3  85.0
Investment   "  (incl. stocks)    97.3    179.5    231.7           222.1    120.5   141.2       36.0    13.6      -7.8       3.2      22.8    50.4  18.7
Domestic Savings                    73.2      48.7      40.0        13.5    113.4   112.8    -18.0    -9.4         13.9     -0.5      17.1      8.7  15.0
National Savings                    88.1    119.9    113.9          60.1      98.4   100.7      16.0    -2.5       -1.9       0.5     20.6    24.8  13.4
MERCHANDISE TRADE                            Amnual Data at Current Prices and Exchange Rates                                         As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods and
Intermediate goods (escfuels)   81.3    144.9    179.2           158.1    226.6   382.9       33.5    11.3        3.0     11.0      58.2    58.0  56.8
Fuels and related materials       10.0      26.7      32.1        36.9     65.3    91.6       63.0      9.6       9.3      7.8       7.2    10.4  13.6
Consumoption goods                48.4      70,2      97.6        95.0    141 5   200,0       20.5    17.9        4.6      7.2      34,6    31,6  29.6
Total Merch. Imports (ci?)       139.      24ii8    308.9        290.0    TjTt   674.5        31.5    12.9        F        9       100.0   190.0 100.
Exports
Iron Ore                         102.9    143.4    127.0        104.0    398.6   497.4        18.0    -5.9      15.4       4.5      76.7    79.14  75.3
Copper Concentrate                12.8       4.5      10.7         8.0     -        -        -41.2    53.0         .        .        9.5      6.7  -
Fish Froducts                     12.3      16.0      20.5        23.6     71.6   158.2       14.0    13.2      16.9      17.1       9.2    12.8  23.9
Other Products                     6.2       3.1       1.8         2.0      3.5      5.0    -29.6   -23.7        8.7       7,4       4.6      1.1   0.8
Totai Merch. Exports (fob)       134T.2    1870    160 0         137,6    73.7   T5'6         11.6     -2.2     14.5  059    100.0   100.0 100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                      Average 1977    _ 100
Export Price Index                75.4    107,0    100.0         99.6    183.6   251.4        19.1    -4.9       7.9       6.4
Imp-)rt Price Index               70.5      90,3    100.0       107.0    161.6   206.3       13.2      5.2       6.2       5.0
Terms of Trade Index             107.0    118.5    100.0          93.1    113.6   121.9        5.2    -8.2       1.6       1.4
Export, Volume Index             111.2      97.5    100.0        86.3    161.2   164.2        -6.4     1.3       6.1       0.4
VALUE AILED BY SECTOR              Arnual Data at Ž9t_ _Prices an.d Exchange Rates  _             Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
Agricalture                       90.2    116.0    103.3        116.3    150.9   182.7        13.4    -5.2       4.9       4.0      25.0    25.9  30.5
Industry ald Mioing              141.1    111.5    108.9        1oo.8    181.8   2C1.3    -11.1    -1.2          6.6       2.1     39.2    27.3  33.5
Soric e                          129.1    151,6    186.7        171.8    189.6   216.Q        8.4    11.o        0.2       2.7     35.8    46.8  36.0
Total                            360.      379.1    359         3 9T    52'.3 600, 0         2.5    752          327    100.0   1 00.0 100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                     Arnua Lats in Current Prices and Exchange Rates                                                      As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)
Current Receipts                  62.6      90.8    102.7        88.9    29L.1   444.4       20.0      6.4      13.9       8.8     23.8    22.8  26.8
Current Expenditures              59.2      98.7    192.3       161.6    300.4   362.4       29.0    39.5        5.1       3.8     22.5    42.6  21.9
Bucdetary Savings                  3.4     -7.9    -89.         -72.7      -9 .3    82. O               '         *                 1.2   -        4.79
Cj RRENT EXPENDITURIE DETAILS                          Actual              Prelim.           DETAIL ON                                1974   197
As 7e Total Current Expend.)             1973   1974   1975   1976    1977                 PUBLIC SECTOR                  t Miilion       % of TotaL
(a-ges and Salaries                       3 5.6   32.5   34.7   27.0    35.2                INVESTMEDNT PRISRAF,
Material and Supplies                     16.5   18.0   20.4   16.6    23.6                 Agriculture                        25.2             5.9
Maintenance                                2.6    1.1    0.9    0.3       o.6               Mining                            110.0            25.6
Subsidies and Transfers                    9.i   11.8   16.6    8.3       7.9               Manufacturing                     114.0            26.5
Public Debt (interest)                     1.3    6,o    3.0    6.8       4.1               Infrastructure                    130.0            30.2
Other                                    13.1   10.2    7.7    4.1        0.9               Public Utilities                  19.(              4.4
Stecial Accounts                          21.8   20.4   16.7   36.9    27.7                 Other                             31.8              7.4
Total Expenditurc                       100.0 100.  100.  100.0  100.0                      Total Expenditures                4570            100.0
FINANCINS
putli, Sector Savines           3.              7.0
Foreign Capital Grants         45. 3           10.5
351.3            81.8
TotalFnancing                 43              100.0O
£7-                                                                                                   _
LABCh FRl  t                                   Total Labor Force                _
In Thousands        %- of Total         2970- 77
1970       1977    1970        1977        Gowth  ate
Agriculturc(inel. LivestDek)  306.0         315.0    85.0       75.0         o.4
Industry  and Service            54.0       105.0    15.0       25.0        12.8
Total                           360.0       420.o   lo0o.      1CO.0         2.2
n.ot applicable       - nil or negligible
.ot available        -- less than half the
smallest unit shown
1/ Including unemployed.



- 32 -                                                                                           ANNaX I
mum  OFPflUl   W mAL A8 S7PANCI AND DE1B
(aamnt  to in    iS   Of  .8. MUsIAO  at  Vcrra5t prrioca)
1/                                  Avg. Anil
Aetwl                         prnriaietcl                                         e-t atd                                        acth Rate
17-           fl4         1975          1S76          7              1978         1979          i9B          1S83         3             1990      1973-1977   1977-1990
SLKTf 81LANC1 077 PA7.1D92TS
Fq.prta (irlo. LPs)                        144.8         203.6        185.6        201,9          184.4          162 .4       196.9         238.0        411.2        518.6         725          6.2          11.1
D'eport (inol. il10S)                      154.9         246.6        307.0        401.6         382 2           340.9        494.2         487.0        408.9        504.7        785.0
P .. %eh biL s                               rT          TIT%    flirT    -TYE                   7L171         -7-r!s   -2Yr7    0.-                    *      :   -irv             T77
Tttrrerat-cii Public Debt                   -2.0         -4.4          -5.5         -7.8          -9.1            -8.8        -17.7        -23.4         -44.3        -34.3        -40.3       46.0           12.1
Direct In-eeneent Income                      3.4         -6.0         -0.2         -0.5           -0.7           -0.8          -0.9         -1.0         -6.2          -6.3         -6.5      -32.4          18.7
S-rk-r I Rowlttacce                         -14.6        -16.2        -24.4        -28.4          -28.9          -30.5         -32.6        -34.9        -42.7         -48.9        -80.4       18.6           6.3
Current Tr6n6fa7rs (nt)  31.4        72.7          76.6        139.7         .07.3            89.3         8D0.         72.5          66.0         65.3         82.3       36.0           -2.0
Oe.lccce on Cerrsnt Antonito                  1.3          3.1        -74.9        -f6.7         -129.2         -129.3       -268.1       -235.8          24.9         10.3         -4.4
Direct leveem eant                          10.3          35.5        -12.8 1      -49.7 3/        -5.6 3/        32.0 4/      38.0 4/        2.2          3.0          5.0          13.O
Official Capital Oronts                       8.4          9.1         10.9          12.0          13.8           14.7          15.7         16.8         24.0          31.0         43.0       13.2            9.2
PUbii: RULT Le6n6 5/
public  ntslT   aol                        28.3         466.          45.6        184.6           75.4           90.9        224.1         236.2         53.7         79.9         170.0       28.0           7.0
-benecscstis                     ~~~~        ~~~~5.8  -8.4  -25.0      -19.4         -22.0           411.4         -9.1         -16.4        -39.1        -48.2         -70.9       39.5           9.4
tme.                                     22.5         38.3          22.0        165.2          53.4          c 79.5        215.0         219.8         14.6         31.6          99.1       24.2           4.9
Other M&LT Laans(flet)                    -15.7          -3.1         -2.2         -3.3            5.0            3.0           3.0         -            -
Short-Taer  Capital                      -20.5        -43.7           0.2          1.8           8.6
Capitol Teener-ties. ..e.i.                  -7.0          5.2          4.1        -11.4           11.9
Cbange is Ret -    re-ec (R.. incresel        0.7        -44.4         52.7        -17.9           42.1            0.1          -3.2         -2.8        -16.7         -57.3        -67.7
Actual
1973       1974      1976      1977
LOAN ClIOIIThDDTS                                                                                                 DEBT AND DEBT  11191CE
Public Debt Out. end Diaba.eed  105.S          168.4    392.4    457.0
Public  17MLT loots                                                                                               Interest cn Public Debt             2.0        4.4       7.8       9.1
73R0                                      -             -            -            -              -R ipayant cn Public Debt 6/    10.9                          9.8      29.4      32.0
LDA                                         2.5          7.9          8.0          2.7            3.5           Total Public Dabt Service          12.9       14.2      37.2      41.1
A0E1D                                     -              4.6         -            45.9           -
Sther lultilaterai                          9.1          9.6         -              2.4           1.6        B-d-  o       ort ..relttng  1%)
-        tvernnentc                        39.4        134.9         63.9         98.0           36.7
Suppliers                                  43.2          1.9          0,9           3.2          10.7          Public Debt b'e-ce                   8.9        7.0      19.4      22.3
Fica-cial Oetituticon                       0.5          5.1         13.4         27.9           21.2          PDS+ Direst  Tneect. Inc.           11.3        9.9      18.7      22.7
Pbilic L-ur.s n.e.i
Tetal Public M&LT Iooas                      7177        7Tvr    . ttfl           -Tu"           -y"           A--ge Toe-m  of P0bl1e Debt
Actual pebt Oeicaegdlea  oe D a. 31. 1930                         Let. c- f Prio  Tear D&D             3.5        4.2       4.1       2.3
HOTUAL DEBI                                       Daiboramd  Only 7ercent  TotaL Debt    Per",    c..               Acot. cc 9 Prior Yer  DO&D          19.2        9.3      36.9       0.2
lMrld Bank                                            -              -          -            -
IDA                                                  24.3           5.3        39.98       5.9
other ttSltilateral                                  36.6           8.0         69.4       10.3
Ors7ernnete                                         248.9          54.5        402.8       59.5
re-l;re.                                             70.0          15.3         71.4       10.5
Ficancial L-tituti-ne                                47.2           10.3        63 3        9.4                1337  Debt Bat. & Lisbrced             11.3       15.1      10.6      24.3
Bands                                                               -           -            -                           Fb10.D7                                 8 ..0     47         53
public Debts  e.                                     3 .0           6.6         30.0        4.4                       -£b3ic Dbt                                 0 4       04          .9
T.utl Public  OLOT Debt                             457.0         100.0       676.7       100.0                     S      b
L/    Th. b.laccc of pa.ya-ta projettione  -ra ba.ed on ti  fellec.ing acahdaptioca: (i) renccedelimg or  -oeaolidation of ebset
I thurd cC ecietleg e:t:cIe ~debt  100923ll  ilon) ac ataed bY eh- Gee-eneet; lit) -s-Pana.e.of gS-Cila act~iIty,
P     trstt i t only anamel rei tios of i-o  ee eoponta bse rico tb   eppr..ett  of ailliet  ef .iptt ipnrts;aed (iil) ar1
smather  -ondition..  pe..ittie   a rapid lapro-ecient of agoiculecrel pcndatiin%.  Sloald tbh  Sahrs conflict par.iat or drpguht
-ccor In -ther  ae-a, it hI   been eaceed thet theneaer.eptional expendis   -.el; ho fieed by  sepple-eetary e                     Iernalaaeiataac
2/     Occluding  a payeeat of about $20  i ilion for tb- acqiit tion of bOIIIMA.
3/     11aLnly pamata  ta NiDESe aharebeld ra.
4/       ainly os-  c e,ty partilipatinsa io S=m.
5/    Smtboding Ip na tar -    l_-  ee payFr a  a-ppart.
6/     Includieg r_aPy.et -n loaIe fOr bal-nce of pp.yeate copo-t brt  -nlding
the U0540 eillico  ca-h papyoat to IIFN8MA ab-reholder-  in 1976,  i..e  thic
-s. sade nith the pro.e.da of a loan coetra-t-d by KrtCIC.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA (as of January 31, 1979)
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Loan or                                                 Amount less Cancellation
Credit                                                         (US$ million)
Number     Year      Borrower            Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
One Loan and two Credits fully disbursed                66.0   9.7         -
273-MAU    1972    Mauritania   Livestock                       4.2       0.1
444-MAU    1973    Mauritania   Drought Relief Fund             2.5       0.1
459-MAU    1974    Mauritania   Education                       3.8       2.8
S16-MAU    1974    Mauritania   Irrigation Engineer-
ing                        1.1        0.0*
519-MAU    1975    Mauritania   Third Highway                   3.0       1.5
588-MAU    1975    Mauritania   Nouadhibou Port                 8.0       0.4
665-MAU    1976    Mauritania   Technical Assist-
ance I                     2.7        2.2
694-MAU    1977    Mauritania   SONADER - Technical
Assistance                 3.5        1.9
TOTAL                                       66.0  38.5         9.0
of which has been repaid                 66.0   0.7
Total now outstanding                        0.0  37.8
Amount sold                          63.4      -
of which has been repaid           63.4     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/             -   37.8         9.0
*    Undisbursed US$5,885.90
11   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
Amount (US$ million)
Type of                   _      Equity
Year     Obligator               Business                  Loan Investment Total
1968     SOMIMA             Copper Mining
One loan and an equity investment fully             18.8    1.2      20.0
repaid when the Government nationalized
SOMIMA in 1974



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 459-MAU - Education Project: US$3.8 million; Credit Agreement:
February 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
(Original Date: December 31, 1980)
This project provides for (a) the establishment of a vocational
training center in Nouakchott to meet training needs for clerical, mechanical
and construction workers; (b) the establishment of a mining training program
in Nouadhibou; (c) equipment and technical assistance for the National
Pedagogical Center for the upgrading and counseling of teachers through
educational broadcasting and related teaching materials; (d) the establish-
ment of a pilot farmer training center in the irrigated rice perimeter of
M'Pourie; (e) the establishment of a farmer radio programming center at
Kaedi; (f) an experimental study of the feasibility of introducing basic
education (reading, writing, arithmetic) in the Koranic school system; and
(g) technical assistance for the Directorate of Planning to help develop
better indicators of manpower demand.
Project implementation was delayed in 1975/76 due to weak project
management and the need to review the cost and content of the project in the
face of higher-than-anticipated price escalation. Since alternative financing
was not available, the scope of the project had to be reduced. Agreement has
been reached with the Government to eliminate two project components: a rural
radio station for the Senegal River Valley and radio facilities for primary
education. The Credit proceeds are being reallocated to the other components:
a vocational training center in Nouakchott, technical assistance for training
in the mining industry, a farmer training center, and an experimental study of
Koranic schools.  Following recent improvements in project management, imple-
mentation of these remaining components is progressing satisfactorily. Farmer
training has begun in temporary facilities, bids have been received for the
vocational training center with construction expected to start soon, and the
Koranic school experiment is nearly completed. The project is expected to b
e completed by June 1983, when the technical assistance for the Vocational
Training Center will end.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. No. 519-MAU - Third Highway Project: US$3.0 million; Credit
Agreement: December 11, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The principal aim of the project is to consolidate and expand the
maintenance and betterment efforts started under the First Road Maintenance
Project (Cr. No. 159-MAU). The project consists of: (a) technical assistance
to relieve the shortage of qualified highway personnel and to allow for the
continuation of the training program undertaken under the previous credit;
(b) purchase of highway equipment for maintenance and betterment works; (c) a
betterment program of about 365 km including earthworks in new alignments to
avoid sandy or periodically flooded areas, construction of sruface drainage
and high river-crossing structures; and (d) a feasibility study and detailed
engineering of the Rosso-Boghe road (200 km). The project, which costs a
total of US$13.7 million, is cofinanced by the KFAED (US$3.8 million) and the
Government of Canada (US$4.2 million). The project became effective on June
8, 1976. The Betterment program to be executed by force account is the
central element of the project, and is now about three years behind appraisal
schedule and the quality of the works are not yet satisfactory. Difficulties
are due to a lack of managerial and technical competence and not making use of
project consultants to overcome the deficiency; lack of funds to prefinance
force account work; complex project administration; and a cost overrun result-
ing from delayed credit effectiveness and project implementation. We are
discussing with the Government and the Kuwait Fund, the co-lender, modifica-
tions of the Credit Agreement (mainly the reduction of the betterment program
from 365 to 215 km) in order to stay within the financial envelope provided.
The technical assistance to the Ministry of Plan, and the feasibility study of
the Rosso-Boghe road have been satisfactorily completed.
Cr. No. 588-MAU - Nouadhibou Port Project: US$8 million; Credit
Agreement: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
This project supports the development strategy of the fishing sector
in Mauritania. It aims to enlarge the port and improve its administration and
operation. Content: (a) construction of civil works, consisting of fishing
and commercial berths and an approachway, a sewerage scheme, and various
buildings; (b) purchase of a harbor master's launch and navigation aids,
maintenance equipment; (c) technical assistance to PAN for port administra-
tion, operations and reorganization of its accounting and financial systems;
and (d) consulting services for studies on the need for and development of
ship-repair facilities.
Although the IDA Credit was only declared effective in June 1976
(due to delays in the ratification of the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement), work
on the principal item of the civil works, the marine works, commenced in
February 1976. Work has subsequently commenced for all the civil works
components and the majority of the work was completed by mid-1978. The
extension to the commercial berths and the new fishing berths went into



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
zr?t2' n 4r N(r,ember 1977. A considerable increase in the volume of rock
to be dredged resulted in cost overruns for this item but the overall project
cost has been maintained. A new financing plan, including the dredging cost
overrun has been prepared and has been approved by the Government and the
co-financers, so that the available funds can now be reallocated.
The technical assistance component of the project commenced in
October 1977 and is progressing satisfactorily. The study for facilities
to repair small ships started in June 1978.
Prospects for fish traffic are now favorable since the extended
fishing port will now be able to accommodate a larger number of foreign fish-
ing vessels, but no significant increase of commercial traffic is expected
until the new iron mine project (Guelbs project) and the associated renewal
program of the railway track materialize.
Cr. No. 665-MAU - Technical Assistance Project: US$2.7 million;
Credit Agreement: December 9, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The aim of the project is to strengthen the Ministry of Planning in
order that it can exercise its responsibility as a central agency which will
integrate overall plan and policy formulation with the preparation and finan-
cing of sectoral programs and their related projects. The project provides
a four-year program to finance (1) five professionals for the Ministry of
Planning to elaborate long-term general and sectoral strategies, set prior-
ities, identify projects, undertake economic and financial analysis, train
Mauritanian counterparts to take over their tasks; and (2) temporary consul-
tants to deal with special subjects when needed.
All experts have been recruited. The team leader and the industrial
economist took up their assignment in January and the other experts in May/
June 1978. The team is assisting Government in reviewing its investment
program, sector policies and project priorities. A good working dialogue
has been established between the mission and Mauritanian officials. The
project is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 694-MAU - SONADER Technical Assistance Project: US$3.5 million;
Credit Agreement: April 8, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project consists of (i) services of seven expatriate experts to
assist SONADER in identifying, preparing and implementing irrigation projects,
and train Mauritanian professionals; (ii) consultant services to carry out
complementary studies of the Gorgol Irrigation Project and other studies;
(iii) purchases of vehicles and office equipment. The team of expatriates and
Mauritanian professionals continue to perform satisfactorily. Complementary
studies of the Gorgol Irrigation perimeter have been completed on schedule;
those of the Foum-Gleita Dam should be finished by early 1979.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
URBAN AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Date of first presentation to the Bank: October 1977
(b)  First Bank Mission to consider the project:  October 1977
(c)  Agency which prepared the project:  Government/Association
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:  March 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:  February 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  August 1979
Section II: Special Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The following principal items have been discussed with the Government
during negotiations, and assurances provided that:
(a)  BMDC will adhere strictly to procedures and loan
limits approved by its Board (para. 32);
(b)  BMDC's audited accounts for the year ended
December 31, 1977 will be forwarded to IDA for
review and comment (Condition of Effectiveness,
para. 34);
(c)  BMDC will continue to employ an external auditor
acceptable to IDA, and will forward to the latter
for review its annual audited accounts, not later
than nine months following the end of the period
to which they relate (para 34);



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) conclusion of the subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and BMDC under terms and conditions
to be approved by the Association (Condition of
Effectiveness, para. 36); the Government has confirmed
that this Agreement will include a commitment that
Government will cover any reduction of BMDC's capital,
provisions, or reserves as of December 31, 1977, if
such reduction results from a loss on BMDC's loan
to the Societe Mauritanienne des Industries et de
1'Equipement;
(e) amendments in the Investment Code acceptable to IDA
will be implemented (Condition of Effectiveness,
paras. 42 and 43);
(f) OMAT will buy all carpets at a previously guarantees
price which will leave the weav r with a net return
of not less than UM 2,250 per m after paying all
weaving expenses and debts due to its production
department (para. 66);
(g) all lending and re-lending arrangements between the
Government, the project institutions, and the ultimate
beneficiaries will be as described in paras 73-75.
(h) Government will carry the foreign exchange risk on
the proposed IDA Credit against a fee of 1 percent
per year on the outstanding loan amount chargeable
only to industrial sub-borrowers, and BMDC will
take appropriate steps to protect itself against
foreign exchange risk on all future external
borrowings (para. 75).



IBRD 13918 R
,,'-PA EG
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA                                                            1                                                            1
URBAN AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND                                                                                       EO   MAURITANIA
Agricultural Projiet Area
9       Village Irrigation Schemes iVIS),
-   Paved Roads                                                                                                             <A         r
/              hY8~~nrAGNibteluo~srsy
Paced Roads under constr.ction                                                                                                        op
Grawel Roads                                                                                 /R
Tracks                                                  . J                                                                             MArM
s-+--.-.-    Railroads                                                                                                                                               GHAMA
*       Airfields                                                                                                             SE                         D le
-100-   Annual Rainfall in Millaneters                                                                                            SENEGAL                                            a 
International Boundaries                                     f                           (S                                                                     QuuInrs
Indicates the territory of thefonrerSpanish Sahara (Westrn Saharaj
Copper
@         Iron                                               //ji
Date Palms                                                                                                                                   A    L  G        E  R  I A
whVdsrf                                                                        i7                         7.
AGRICCULTURAL ZONES                                                                                                                                <
Saharan Desert
Sharan Sub- Desert                                                        4-.\ .Lr  OhORI  -:
['ZIZI   Sahelian |
9   0         150        502J                                                                    .                                                                                4-
KILOMETERS                        .I                                                 >
°~~ ~ rN   E                      /g.                                                 .  - - -           
X                                       X~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A L 
Nouodhibo
tsJ~~~~~~~~~~~i
,;-n           &d¢                                            (           e_                                                                         - 2100
OMderdroa          CEr                                                                        ru    G1
2os  C00
-16-  St. Loui      s           ,             *                         e            v,  300
DAKAR6°                                                                   t tb                       i)0°                                       °ov~sS
rnS    E    N   E   G    A    LSereroer , ,,mdorsemee
'       16'                                                   12°                                                                                      O B 1°
I)                                                       I                                                     I                                  OCTOBEFI 1978_j



