CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 888 MAU
Project Agreement
(Urban and Rural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANQUE MAURITANIENNE FOUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT ET LE COMMERCE
Dated April 11, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 888 MAU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 11, 1979, between the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
the BANQUE MAURITANIENNE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT ET LE COMMERCE
(hereinafter called BMDC), established pursuant to Law No. 61-030
dated January 26, 1961. of the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that BMDC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BMDC, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
made available to BMDC on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS BMDC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01 Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of BMDC
Section 2.01. BMDC shall carry out Part A of the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement,


﻿- 2 -
and conduct its operations and affairs, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial
and investment standards and practices, with qualified and experi-
enced management and in accordance with its Statutes and Statement
of Policy.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, BMDC shall submit
Sub-loans for Investment Projects to the Association for approval
or for authorization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit
Account.
(b) (i)   When submitting a Sub-loan to the Association for
approval, BMDC shall furnish to the Association an application,
in form satisfactory to the Association, together with a descrip-
tion of the Investment Enterprise and of the Investment Project
to be financed thereunder (including a description of the expendi-
tures for such Investment Project proposed to be financed by
BMDC Lad an appraisal of the Investment Project) and the proposed
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan including the schedule of
amortization of the Sub-loan and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request; and (ii) such appraisals
will include a calculation of the internal financial rate of
return and, in cases of import substitution, an evaluation of the
economic rate of return, established in accordance with guidelines
satisfactory to the Association.
(c) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the
Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree: (i) shall not
extend beyond 15 years from the date of approval by the Associa-
tion of such Sub-loan or of authorization by the Association to
make withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of such
Sub-loan; and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and
interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.
(d) Except as the Association and BMDC shall otherwise
agree, BMDC shall submit applications for approval of Sub-loans
pursuant to the provisions of paragragh (b) of this Section on or
before December 31, 1982.
Section 2.03. (a) BMDC undertakes that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms whereby
BMDC shall obtain, by written agreement or other appropriate legal


﻿-3-
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association
and of BMDC, including, in the case of any such Sub-loan: (i) the
right to require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) the right to
require that the goods and services to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Sub-loan be used exclusively in the carrying out
of the Investment Project; (iii) the right of the Association and
of BMDC to inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) the right to
require that the Investment Enterprise take out and maintain such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice and that, without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan to the place of
use or installation, and that any indemnity thereunder be made
available in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise
to replace or repair such goods; (v) the right to obtain all such
information as the Association or BMDC shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operacions
and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) the
right of BMDC to suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure
by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
agreement with BMDC.
(b) BMDC shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to (i) protect the interests
of the Association and of BMDC, (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. BMDC shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Sub-loans, the
Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and
the Sub-loans.
Section 2.05. BMDC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BMDC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating
or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿Section 2.06. Except as the Association and BMDC shall
otherwise agree, BMDC: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the
ordinary course of business; and (ii) shall take all action
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
Section 2.07. BMDC shall cause each of its Subsidiaries
(if any) to observe and perform the obligations of BMDC under this
Agreement to the extent to which the same may be made applicable
thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
Subsidiaries.
Section 2.08. BMDC shall not further amend its Statement
of Policy except in agreement with the Association, and shall
exchange views with the Association on any proposal to modify its
Statutes.
Section 2.09. In order to assist BMDC in carrying out Part
A.2 of the Project, BMDC shall employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associatioa.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BMDC shall maintain records adequate to record:
(i) the progress of Part A of the Project and of each Investment
Project (including the cost thereof); and (ii) the operations
carried out in the accounts referred in paragraph (g) of Section
3.01 of the Credit Agreement, and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of BMDC and shall enable the
Association's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. BMDC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified


﻿-5-
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of BMDC and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and BMDC shall
otherwise agree, BMDC shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary to
incur any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consoli-
dated debt of BMDC and all its Subsidiaries then incurred and
outstanding would exceed 4 times the consolidated capital and
free reserves of BMDC and all its Subsidiaries. For the purpose of
this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by BMDC or any
Subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed
by BMDC or by a Subsidiary.
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to
be incurred (i) under a loan contract or agreement on the date
and to the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement and (ii) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent the guaranteed debt is
outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Ouguiya debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable in Ouguiya for the purposes
of servicing such debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of BMDC and all its Subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of BMDC and all its Sub-
sidiaries excluding debt owed by BMDC to any Subsidiary or by
any Subsidiary to BMDC or to any other Subsidiary.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of BMDC
and all its Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the total unim-
paired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of BMDC and of


﻿-6-
all its Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts
as shall represent equity interests of BMDC in any Subsidiary, or
of any such Subsidiary in BMDC or in any other Subsidiary.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association and BMDC shall
otherwise agree, BMDC shall not make any repayment in advance
of maturity in respect of any of its borrowings (other than
deposits) having an original term exceeding one year.
Sestion 3.05. (a) BMDC shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Association, including, without limitation, special pro-
visions in its Statement of Policy, as shall be necessary to
protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in
the rates of exchange between the various currencies (including
Ouguiya) used in its borrowing and lending operations.
(b) BMDC shall levy on its industrial borrowers a special
charge of 1% per annum on the outstanding amount of any Sub-loan
and pay the amount of such charge to the Borrower in order to
reimburse the Borrower for the risk of loss resulting from the
changes in rates of exchange referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and BMDC shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accom-
plished. To that end, the Association and BMDC shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance by BMDC of its obligations under this Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of BMDC and other matters relating to the
purpose of the Credit.
(b) BMDC shall furnish to the Association all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
administration, operations and financial condition of BMDC and its
Subsidiaries, if any.
Section 4.02. BMDC shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the


﻿- 7 -
maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by BMDC of
its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 4.03. BMDC shall enable the Association's represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of BMDC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BMDC of this event, and upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of
the parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radlogram to the party to which it is required or


﻿-8-
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BMDC:
Banque Mauritanienne pour le
Developpement et le Commerce
B. P. 219
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Cable address:                     Telex:
BADEC                             564 BADEC MTN
Nouakchott
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement or under Section 2.09 of the Development Credit Agree-
ment on behalf of or by BMDC may be taken or executed by its
Director General, or by such other person or persons as BMDC shall
designate in writing, and BMDC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿- 9 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Xavier de la Renaudiere
BANQUE MAURITANIENNE POUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT ET LE COMMERCE
By Is! Kane Amadou Tidjane
Authorized Representative


