Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3653-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
October 14, 1982
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name  =  Renminbi
Currency Unit  =  Yuan (Y)
US$1.00         =  Y1.75
US$0.571        =  Y1.00
US$571,429      =  Y1,000,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALENTS
Metric System                  British/US System
1 meter (m)                =   3.281 feet
1 square meter (sq m)      =  10.764 square feet
1 cubic meter (cu m)       =  35.315 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)               0.621 mile
1 ton-km                   =   0.621 ton-mile
1 passenger-km (pass-km)  =   0.621 passenger-mile
1 ton                      =   2,208 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CFS    =  Container Freight Station
CHC    =  Cargo Handling Corporation
cif    =  cost, insurance and freight
COSA   =  China Ocean Shipping Agency
COSCO  =  China Ocean Shipping Corporation
CSA    =  Changjiang Shipping Authority
dwt    =  dead weight tons
fob    =  free on board
HAB    =  Harbour Administration Bureau
HSO    =  Harbour Superintendency Organization
MLW    =  Mean Low Water level, or the local datum
MOC    =  Ministry of Communications
nrt    =  net registered ton
POD    =  Port Operating District
TEU    =  Twenty Foot Equivalent Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TRANSLITERATION EQUIVALENTS
Pinyin System                 Conventional System
Beijing             =         Peking
Beijiang            =         North River (of Pearl River system)
Changjiang          =         Yangtze River
Chengdu             =         Chengtu
Dalian                        Dairen
Dongjiang           =         East River (of Pearl River system)
Guangzhou           =         Canton
Guizhou             =         Kweichow
Harbin                        Haerhpin
Huanghe             =         Yellow River
Huangpo             =         Whampoa River
Huangpu             =         Whampoa
Junggars            =         Junggas
Nanjing             =         Nanking
Nei Menggol         =         Inner Mongolia
Ningbo                        Ningpo
Qingdao             =         Tsingtao
Qinghai             =         Tsinghai
Shanghai            =         Shanghai
Shaanxi             =         Shansi
Shanxi                        Shensi
Shenyang            =        Mukden
Sichuan             =         Szechwan
Tanggu                        Tangku
Tarim                         Tarim
Tianjin             =         Tientsin
Wuhan                         Wuhan
Xijiang             =         West River (of Pearl River system)
Xingang             =         Hsingkang
Xizang              =         Tibet
Yunnan                        Yunnan
Zhujiang            =         Pearl River
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-t -
t



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR   .....   ...............   .                   1
A.  Economic Setting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1
B.  Transport System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         2
C.  Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination. . . . . . .         6
II.  THE PORT SUBSECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         8
A.  Port Organization . . . . . .                 .   .   . . .      8
B.  Port Organizational Reform . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9
C.  Management, Staff and Training  .         . . . . . . . . .  .    10
D.  Existing Port Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
E.    Traffic  ..............                  ......#         *    13
F. Operations               . . . . .. .   14
G.  Costs and Tariffs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
H.  Budget, Accounting and Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
III.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
A.  Investment Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
B.  The Project and the Loan . ........ . . . . .. .    19
C.  Description of the Main Project Items. . . . . . . . . .    20
D.  Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
E. Financing  . . . . . . .  . . . . .                 .  .  .      22
F.  Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
G. Disbursements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
H.  Completion Report and Economic Impact Study  . . . . . .    26
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . .....          .................. .  26
A.  Main Benefits and Beneficiaries   . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
B.  Traffic              .         .  . . .  .  .  .  .  . . .    27
C.  Ship Time Analysis          .  .   . .  .  .  .  .  . . . .  31
D.  Operational Parameters .    .. ......  ..   .....        . ..    32
E.  Benefits and Costs ......... . .   .   . . . .    .    33
F.  Project       .        . .....  .  .  .  .  .  . .   .   . . .  .    34
C.  Overall Economic Evaluation and Risks        .  .  .  . . .    35
This report was prepared by Messrs. Kevin C. Rodley (financial analyst),
Ismail E. Mobarek (engineer), and Niels Erik Krogh-Poulsen (economist).



Page No.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION.                                                    36
A. General .36
B.  Present and Future Financial Performance . . . . . . . .    37
C.  The CHCs ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    40
D.  Sensitivity Analysis ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    41
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    41
ANNEXES
A. Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
B. Reorganization of Port Cargo Handling Operations
TABLES
1. Huangpu Port Berth Details of Existing Port
2. Huangpu Port Warehouses and Stocking Yards
3. Shanghai Port Berth Details of Existing Port
4. Shanghai Port Warehouses and Stocking Yards
5.  Tianjin Port Berth Details of Existing Port
6. Tianjin Port Warehouses and Stocking Yards
7.  Ship Time Analysis for Huangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin Ports 1980
8.  Existing Principal Port Charges at Huangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin
Ports
9. Detailed Cost Estimates
10.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
11.  Operating Manpower requirement for Project Berths
12.  Operating Manpower Training Plan for Project Container Terminals
13. Huangpu Port Traffic 1975-95
14. Shanghai Port Traffic 1975-95
15. Tianjin Port Traffic 1975-95
16. Intermodal Transfer of Cargo in Huangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin Ports
1980
17. Huangpu Coal Berth, Operational Parameters Assumed for Economic
Evaluation
18. Huangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin General Cargo Berths, Operational
Parameters Assumed for Economic Evaluation
19. Huangpu Port, Coal Handling Without and With Proposed Coal Berths
20. Huangpu Port, General Cargo Handling Without and With Proposed
Container Berth
21. Shanghai Port, General Cargo Handling Without and With Proposed
Container Berth
22. Tianjin Port, General Cargo Handling Without and With Proposed
Container Berths
23. Economic Costs and Benefits
24. Representative Ship Costs



- iii -
25.  Financial Forecast Methodology and Principal Assumptions
26.  Huangpu Port, Income and Expenditure Account 1978-86
27.  Shanghai Port, Income and Expenditure Account 1978-86
28.  Tianjin Port, Income and Expenditure Account 1978-86
29.  Huangpu Port, Harbor Masters Division, Income and Expenditure
Account, 1978-86
30.  Shanghai Port, Harbor Masters Division, Income and Expenditure
Account, 1978-86
31.  Tianjin Port, Harbor Masters Division, Income and Expenditure
Account, 1978-86
32.  Huangpu Port, Traffic and Cargo Handling Revenue 1980-85
33.  Shanghai Port, Traffic and Cargo Handling Revenue 1980-85
34.  Tianjin Port, Traffic and Cargo Handling Revenue 1980-85
35.  Project Ports Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1977-80
36.  Project Ports Cash Flow Statements 1977-80
37.  Project Ports Balance Sheets as on December 31, 1980-86
38.  Project Ports Cash Flow Projections, 1981-86
39.  Ministry of Communications Cash Flow Related to Project Ports 1981-86
CHARTS
IBRD A   Ministry of Communications, Water Transport and Related Activities
Organizatonal Structure
IBRD B   Huangpu Port, Organizational Struture
IBRD C   Shanghai Port, Organizational Structure
IBRD D   Tianjin Port, Organizational Structure
IBRD E   Huangpu Coal Terminal, Construction Schedule
IBRD F   Huangpu Coal Terminal, Schedule for Equipment Procurement
IBRD G   Huangpu Container Terminal, Construction Schedule
IBRD H   Huangpu Container Terminal, Schedule for Equipment Procurement
IBRD I   Shanghai Container Terminal, Construction Schedule
IBRD J   Shanghai Container Terminal, Schedule for Equipment Procurement
IBRD K   Tianjin Container Terminal, Construction Schedule
IBRD L   Tianjin Container Terminal, Schedule for Equipment Procurement
MAPS
IBRD 15512R1 China, Railways Ports and Airports
IBRD 15816   Huangpu Port, Coal and Container Terminals, Location and
Navigation Channel
IBRD 15817   Huangpu Port, Coal Terminal
IBRD 15845   Huangpu Port, Container Terminal
IBRD 15814   Shanghai, Port Terminals and Navigation Channel
IBRD 15815   Shanghai Container Terminal, District No. 9, Berths 1 and 2
IBRD 15813   Tianjin Container Terminal, Berths No. 27, 28, and 29






- iv -
Acknowledgment
This report is based on information provided by the Government,
by the consulting firm E.G. Frankel (US); and on the findings of an
appraisal mission in July/August 1981 consisting of Messrs. Kevin C. Rodley
(mission leader and financial analyst), Ismail E. Mobarek (engineer), Niels
Erik Krogh-Poulsen (economist) and Frank Higginbottom (consultant engineer).
Mr. J. Richard Bumgarner (Senior Loan Officer) assisted in the appraisal.
Additional reports and data related to the project and available in the
Bank, are listed in Annex A.






I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
1.01      China is the world's third largest country in area, covering about
9.6 million square kilometers and comprising the plateaus of Qinghai-Xizang in
the West, Nei Menggu, and Shaanxi-Shanxi in the Northwest, and Yunnan-Guizhou
in the Southwest; the Junggars, Tarim and Sichuan basins in Central China; and
the lowlands in Eastern China. China's population is the largest in the world
and numbers about 970 million with about 13% living in urban areas and the
remainder scattered in a large number of towns located mainly along the coast
and in the river basins of the three principal rivers of the country, the
Huanghe, the Changjiang, and the Xijiang. The main centers of population and
economic activity are Guangzhou, Shanghai, Beijing and Tianjin which are
served by the three project ports. The main agricultural areas are located in
the river basins. The topography of the country and the location of
population and agriculture along the rivers and the coastline has resulted in
river and coastal shipping being the most important traditional modes of
transport. Over the past three decades, however, a long term expansion
program has enhanced the importance of railway transport to the point where
the railways now carry two thirds of freight by domestic motorized transport.
1.02      Domestic freight transported in 1980 was estimated at about 833 bil-
lion ton-km of which about 571 billion ton-km moved by rail, about 80 billion
ton-km by coastal shipping, 57 billion ton-km by road, about 76 billion ton km
by river, and 49 billion ton-km by pipeline. This data exclude transport by
traditional means, which in many countries would go by road vehicles. From
1970 onwards, total domestic freight transported has grown at a fairly steady
average of about 9% annually; this compares to an average growth in real net
material product of about 6% annually, indicating a transport elasticity ratio
of 1.5. The major long distance traffic flows are raw materials such as coal
and oil movingy from north to south and from west to east. Coal in particular
moves east from the Nei Menggu-Shaanxi area to consumption points in the
coastal areas. Some coal moves south either by rail, or by coastal shipping
through the ports of Qinhuangdao, Qingdao, and Lianyungang. Foreign trade and
consumer goods move between the main coastal industrial centers such as
Guangzhou, Shanghai and Tianjin, and the interior.
1.03      Since 1977, there has been considerable discussion within China
on the ends and means of economic development. From this discussion which
is still in progress, has emerged the current economic policy of adjustment,
reform, conso:Lidation and improvement, which addresses issues in resource
allocation between economic sectors, relative pricing of commodities and
services, and the degree of independent economic decision making that
should be allotted to communes, enterprises and individuals. The economic
policy gives priority to agriculture, energy production and light industry,
particularly to consumer goods and export commodities. While implementation



- 2 -
of reforms has had important positive economic effects, the ten years of tur-
moil of the cultural revolution and the weakness of economic planning in
China, resulted in unbalanced economic development. As a result, planned
future investment outlays were revised downwards, and a number of projects
postponed, slowed down or discontinued. At the same time, the attitude
towards reform has become more cautious. This attitude is reflected in the
transport sector where the speed of reform and structural change has slowed
down and a more cautious policy of providing adequate transport for high
priority sectors over the next five years is pursued.
B. Transport System
1.04      The transport system of China comprises about 50,000 km of railways;
870,000 km of roads; 107,800 km of rivers navigable by barges of 100 tons or
larger; 15 major national ports and a large number of smaller provincial and
municipal ports; and 48 major airports. The main transport corridors are
Harbin-Dalien; Beijing-Shenyang; Beijing/Tianjin-Shanghai; Beijing-Wuhan-
Guangzhou; Shanghai-Wuhan-Chengdu. The first three corridors are served
mainly by rail while the last is served mainly by the Changjiang. In
addition, the physical characteristics of the country have encouraged coastal
shipping services to meet the demand for transport along the coast.
(a) Ports
1.05      Details of the ports subsector are discussed in Chapter II.
(b) Railways
1.06      The railways are built and operated by the Ministry of Railways.
The system consists of about 49,800 route km, of which 49,000 route km are
standard gauge and some 800 km meter and narrow gauge. About 8,000 km are
multiple track and 1,000 km are electrified. Double tracking and
electrification of an additional 3,585 km is in progress.
1.07      Over 60% of the fleet consists of open cars for transport ,of coal,
ores, sand and gravel, and the railways have started to produce specialized
cars such as bulk grain cars and refrigerated cars. The equipment is well
maintained and average availability is about 97%.
1.08      Traffic in 1980 amounted to about 571 billion ton-km of freight
and 138 billion passenger-km. Average hauls are 510 km for freight and 142 km
for passenger and have been increasing slowly. Annual average traffic growth
since 1975 has been 7% for freight and 6% for passengers. The principal
commodities transported were coal 39%, construction materials 21%, ores 13%,
iron and steel products 6%, and petroleum 5%. The highest traffic densities
of 25-35 million net ton-km per line-km are achieved between Beijing-Shenyang,
Beijing-Shanghai, and Beijing-Wuhan.



- 3 -
1.09      Freight traffic density has been increasing steadily and, at an
average of 11.8 million ton-km per route-km, is now the second highest in
the world after that of the USSR. Average train weight of about 2,000 tons
has changed little in the last decade. The number of freight cars per train
has remained relatively constant at between 48 and 53 cars, largely a conse-
quence of the length of passing loops and station sizes which are 650 meters
for 75% of the stations and 850 meters for the rest. Wagon turn-around time
at 3 days is extremely low by any other railway standards.
1.10      There is no equipment for rail transport and rail terminal handling
of containers atnd there are no current plans for procurement of such equip-
ment, which means that domestic rail transport of containerizable import and
export cargo at least in the near future will take place as break-bulk. There
is little specialized suburban equipment and stations which means that short
trips put considerable burden on the rest of the system, particularly on the
approaches to large cities and stations such as Beijing and Shanghai which are
heavily congested. On-time train performance is high at 95% for passenger
trains and 90% for freight trains.
1.11      Little is currently known about tariffs and costs, but apparently
short distance tariffs do not cover costs; and unified tariffs throughout
the country imply regional cross-subsidization of railway users.
(c) Highways
1.12      The Central Highway Bureau of the Ministry of Communications (MOC)
is responsible for the planning of national roads, and it also operates some
road transport services. The design, construction and maintenance of
national as well as provincial roads are the responsibility of the Provincial
Transport Bureaus who also operate road transport services.
1.13      The highway network in 1979 comprised about 876,000 km of which
about 151,000 km were asphalted. Road pavement standards are low and the
extent of the paved network is limited. Road maintenance, however, is well
organized and currently absorbs much of the attention and resources of the
provincial and other road authorities. Except for Western China, the high-
way network is still very much a system of feeder roads to the railways.
1.14      Motor traffic on the national highways since 1978 reportedly has
grown at a very high overall annual average of 15%, which is about the same
rate of growth as the vehicle fleet.
1.15      Until recently public carrier road freight transport has been
carried out exclusively by government transport bureaus at the national,
provincial, regional, county and municipal levels; tariffs have been set at
high levels and, at least in some provinces, substantial transshipment
rather than door-to-door delivery has occurred when cargo crossed jurisdic-
tional boundaries of different bureaus. Faced with high tariffs and a some-
times poor service of public carrier vehicles, manufacturing or production



- 4 -
enterprises have increasingly purchased their own vehicles with the result
that the fleet of own-account vehicles now amount to about 86% of the
vehicle fleet. Own-account vehicles have been prevented from engaging in
for-hire activities, however, and public carriers still account for
two-thirds of the ton-km moved by truck.
1.16      Public carrier tariffs, which have been revised little since 1966,
generally exceed costs by a wide margin. Truck tariffs for haul distances
under 50 km are approximately six times higher than railway rates; for
haulage distances of 50-100 km and over 100 km, truck tariffs are nine times
and nineteen times higher than railway tariffs. At such rate differentials
there is little truck public-carrier competition with railways.
(d) Inland Water Transport
1.17      Inland water transport is a widely dispersed activity in China.
Of the about 107,800 km of waterways in service in 1979 only about 3,000 km
on the main course of the Changjiang were under direct control of the MOC,
the remaining inland water transport activities were under provincial,
municipal, and production enterprise control.  More than 320 million tons of
cargo were transported on inland waterways in 1979 over an average distance
of 170 km. Only about 15% of that cargo was carried by the Changjiang
Shipping Authority (CSA) under the MOC. The average distance of cargo
carried by CSA exceeds 560 km, which means that other inland water transport
goods moved only about 100 km on average. The Changjiang and its
tributaries is the most active inland water system with over 230 million
tons of cargo moved, or 72% of the total inland water tonnage. The
remaining 91 million tons of inland water cargo move on the Zhujiang system,
the Heilungjiang system, the Grand Canal, and a large number of smaller
waterways.
1.18      On the larger waterways, most traditional junks have now been
displaced by modern self-propelled vessels and pushed or towed barges.
Most barges on the upper Changjiang, the Zhujiang, and major tributaries,
are of 500-1,000 dwt capacity, while on the lower Changjiang they reach
5,000 dwt.
1.19      With seasonal water levels varying up to 20-30 m at some major
river ports, many terminals are restricted to the use of floating piers
served by floating cranes and the use of rope or cable ways, sliding ramps,
and floating ramps for the docking of vessels and vessel-to-shore cargo
transfer.  This makes terminal operations difficult, slow, and expensive.
Some fixed docking and loading facilities, particularly for bulk commodities
such as coal, have been installed as far upriver as Wuhan on the Changjiang,
but these types of terminals are still the exception.
1.20      River transport tariffs on the Changjiang vary with distance but
are identical for upstream and downstream transport. Furthermore, rates on
the upper reaches of the river above Wuhan are higher than those on the



lower reaches between Wuhan and Nanjing/Shanghai, which is consistent with
the relative operating costs. Although water transport costs are lower than
rail costs per ton-km, the tariff structure gives rail transport a 20-30%
advantage over water transport.
(e) Coastal. Shipping
1.21      The MOC controls the two coastal shipping operating companies
named the Shanghai and the Guangzhou Water Transport Bureaus respectively.
Transport carried by the Shanghai and Guangzhou Water Transport Bureaus
in 1979 amounted to about 44 billion ton-km and 34 billion ton-km
respectively. The average haul distance is around 1,200 km. Coal comprises
more than 31% of the total cargo carried by coastal shipping under MOC. The
remaining consists largely of mineral ore, petroleum products, cement,
fertilizer, and grain. While the Shanghai Water Transport Bureau's traffic
has increased by 18% between 1975 and 1979, that of Guangzhou Bureau
doubled. This is probably due in part to the resumption of shipping
north and south through the Taiwan straits which was previously almost
nonexistent. There is also a significant amount of passenger traffic, about
4 million passengers were carried on coastal routes in 1979.
(f) Ocean Shipping
1.22      Ocean shipping in foreign trade is mainly performed by the China
Ocean Shipping Corporation (COSCO) under MOC with some minor holdings by
companies of provincial transport bureaus who have recently acquired
ocean-going vessels themselves or in joint venture with COSCO companies.
1.23      The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade through the
State Trading Corporations controls all of China's foreign trade. The
transportation requirements of the foreign trade are organized by the China
National Foreign Trade Transport Corporation which assigns all ocean
transport requiresments to COSCO, the China National Chartering Corporation,
and other Chinese-owned vessels, and foreign charters or foreign liner
companies. Recently provincial governments have been allowed to establish
their own provincial trading corporations which may assign cargoes to
different shipping alternatives as noted above as well as to a Provincial
Ocean Shipping Corporation.
1.24      The planning, budgeting, and pricing of ocean shipping is con-
trolled by the State Planning, Economic, and Pricing Commissions. Other
government agencies involved in the financing of foreign trade, shipping
investment, charter parties, and various contractual and financial activi-
ties in ocean shipping are the Bank of China, the General Administration of
Exchange Control, and the China International Trust and Investment
Corporation. Agency services for all foreign ships calling at Chinese ports
is performed by the China Ocean Shipping Agency (Penavico or COSA). COSA is
the owners' and operators' representative in China, and provides for all
services, supplies, port facility requirements, and general representation
of foreign ships calling at China's ports.



- 6 -
1 .25     The oceanborne foreign trade of China amounted to about 100 mil-
lion tons in 1980 of which 61 million tons or about 61% was carried by
vessels under Chinese control (43 million tons by COSCO, and 18 million tons
by other ships).
1.26      The average age of oceangoing ships (1,000 gross registered tons
or larger) is now about 14 years, which is appreciably higher than the
average age of ships worldwide. Tankers in the Chinese merchant fleet vary
in size, most being 40-90,000 dwt tankers with a few 10-30,000 dwt. Most
dry bulk carriers are 20-30,000 dwt, though there are a few 70,000 dwt mnd
100,000 dwt bulkers as well. General cargo ships are generally under 20,000
dwt with most being about 15,000 dwt.
1.27      COSCO reported that as of November 1980 they operate about 450
oceangoing vessels, with a combined capacity of a little over 7 million dwt.
In addition there are several small provincial and specialized shipping
companies. COSCO has a number of small semi-container vessels with
capacities of 200-300 TEU, two of which are now employed on the first direct
COSCO container service between Shanghai and Australia.
1.28      Since 1978/79 China has started to order new ships and contin-
ued buying secondhand vessels while at the same time disposing of some of
the older or unsuitable used vessels in its fleet. Among the new orders are
RoRo vessels, container vessels, and multipurpose general cargo vessels.
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
1.29      Current transport policies emphasize consolidation of the existing
system rather than further major expansion. Most main rail projects now
under construction or currently planned are directed towards capacity
increases on existing lines rather than new line construction. For roads it
appears that a number of sections are beginning to reach congestion levels.
While the highway network will continue to be extended at relatively low
standards to connect areas currently not accessible by motor vehicles, a
large portion of road investments can be expected to be allocated for
upgrading of existing roads.
1.30      While the above consolidation approach for rail and roads appears
adequate, it needs particularly careful assessment in the ports sector. The
world trend has been to move from estuarial to coastal locations to facili-
tate access of larger ships, with beneficial reductions in capital and main-
tenance dredging. Urgent investigations are required into the possibilities
for developing deep water ports either at some existing port sites or at new
locations as part of a national port strategy and development plan that
will allocate to central and provincial ports their appropriate roles. With
a view to providing the technical and economic inputs for a national port
strategy for the coming decades and to identifying possible coastal locations



- 7 -
suitable for deep water port development, MOC has begun work on a port
development plan for the country, including forecasts of economic
development, origins and destinations of cargo, traffic allocation to ports,
and intermodal transfers, together with prefeasibility studies of various
port sites. MOC is also conducting various estuarial studies in the
approaches to the ports of Huangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin.
1.31      The new economic policies will affect transport structurally
through the proposed shift in emphasis from heavy industry to light industry
and agriculture which implies a relatively lower growth rate for the trans-
port of bulk commodities such as ores and steel, and a relatively faster
growth rate for :Light industry products and foodstuffs. Since these pro-
ducts usually go shorter distances and between many dispersed origins and
destinations in small size shipments, they will be more suitable to road
transport than to rail transport, unless containerized and transported
between container terminals in unit trains. The Government, however,
currently has no plans for container transport by rail, and container
transport by road is only taking place on a very local scale. There are
plans, however, for establishing a container transport service by road
linking Tianjin port with Beijing, a distance of about 150 km for which road
transport would be cheaper than rail transport.
1.32      Many agencies are involved in the transport policy and planning
process. At the national level, transport is administered by two key
Ministries: the Ministry of Railways which covers railways, and the Ministry
of Communications which covers national roads, main ports, coastal and ocean
shipping, and somne inland water transport. In addition there is the
Ministry of Petroleum Industry for pipelines; and the Civil Aviation
Administration of China, a special agency of the State Council, which runs
the national airline. Decision making in the railways, pipelines and
aviation subsectors is highly centralized, but in the roads and water
transport subsectors provincial and county government and communes as well
as production enterprises play very important roles.
1.33      Transport decisions need to be coordinated, horizontally at the
central level among the major government ministries and agencies and,
vertically, between the central ministries and the provinces and lower
levels of government. In practice, however, coordination between central
and provincial authorities, and between ministries is weak and often takes
place indirectly through the process of approval and scheduling of
investment plans by the State Planning Commission and the State Economic
Commission. Given the limited number of staff dealing with transport
planning and the wide area of their responsibilities, the extent and depth
of specific policy, planning and coordinating efforts that can be expected
from these bureaus is limited. The Comprehensive Transportation Research
Institute under the State Economic Commission has begun to undertake studies
in transport planning and project evaluation techniques.



II. THE PORT SUBSECTOR
A. Port Organization
2.01      The Ministry of Communications (MOC) controls China's 15 major
national ports at the State level, largely through four of its water
transport departments: Operations, Planning, Port Supervision, and Capital
Construction (Chart A). At each of the major ports a Harbor Administration
Bureau (HAB) is responsible for the management of all onshore port
facilities as well as for tug and barge services afloat.  The establishment
of HABs is governed by Provisional Regulations which became effective in
January 1954. These regulations provide that, although directly under the
jurisdiction of MOC, HABs are also under the supervision and direction of
the local people's government in the areas of administration, business,
technical matters and finance. In practice, each HAB Director is directly
responsible to MOC and is expected to maintain regular dialogue on port
problems with city and provincial governments, other state agencies, and the
workers' union. However, no formal mechanism, such as a board of directors,
exists at this level to assist in ensuring that the needs of port users and
others in day-to-day operations and development planning are adequately met.
A deeper knowledge is needed of the interaction between the central
government, port management and provincial governments before
recommendations can be made to improve, e.g. intermodal coordination, the
need for which is more evident in Shanghai than in Huangpu.
2.02      A Harbor Superintendency Organization (HSO) is established under
MOC by the State in each port. The HSO is responsible for navigational
aids, maritime environmental control, ship operations in the approaches to
the port, and ship traffic control. It supervises and implements the
policies and decrees of the State.
2.03      Each port, depending on its size, has a full range of operating
departments covering planning, engineering, traffic, training, accounting,
commercial, etc. (Charts B to D). Besides providing usual port services to
ships and shippers, the HABs also manage small ship repair facilities and
administer educational, health and welfare services for workers and their
families. Each major port is operated as an autonomous enterprise in day-to-
day port management within the parameters set by its MOC-approved annual
financial operating plan and investment budget. Each operational or service
division and each port operating district constitutes a cost and revenue, or
budget center, Workers are usually assigned to a department or division on a
regular basis. Machinery and equipment is assigned on a permanent basis.
Port construction designs are prepared by regional design institutes; civil
works are undertaken by regional construction bureaus; and port access channel
dredging is performed by regional waterway bureaus, all of which are
responsible to the MOC.



- 9 -
2.04      All net cargo handling revenues are being remitted by the ports to
Government through MOC. On average, only about 20% of the project ports' net
revenues from harbor dues have recently been retained for use by the HAB, the
remainder being remitted to MOC to help meet the cost of China's port
development and maintenance dredging of approach channels. All major capital
works at the project ports are currently financed from Government sources
through MOC.
B. Port Organizational Reform
2.05       In order to establish clear accountability on the part of the
different operational entities within the ports, and as a move in line with
Government's overall policy of allocating more decision-making power and
responsibility to enterprises, the Government subsequent to appraisal
decided to separate port administration from port operations and to organize
the port operating districts (POD) in each port into a number of
cargo-handling corporations (CHC). Maintenance and repair workshops in
similar fashion would be organized into workshop corporations. The MOC
plans the creation of CHCs to proceed gradually over several years, both to
learn from experiences of the initial CHCs and to avoid confusion by
simultaneous conversion of a large number of PODs. The first four CHCs
have been established in principle in 1980 in Dalien, Tianjin, Shanghai and
Huangpu. The Dalien CHC became vested with full legal powers and
responsibilities in January 1982, and the three other CHCs as well as an
additional CHC for coal handling in Huangpu will become operational by the
completion of the proposed project.
2.06      The CHCs would be independent legal entities directly under the
MOC, and would have the ability to enter into contractual arrangements with
other corporations. The CHCs would own land, berths, buildings and equip-
ment.  The CHC manager will be directly responsible to the Waterway Trans-
port Bureau in MOC on cargo operational matters, and to the Planning Bureau
of MOC on budget and investment matters. All matters on development plan-
ning and construction work before being referred to MOC must be reported to
HAB, which must endorse those CHC development projects which have effects
beyond the CHC, as well as land acquisition. Organizational details of the
CHCs are described in Annex B. After separation of administrative and
enterprise functions in the port, the HAB would be responsible only for
administration and common port services such as pilotage, towing, dredging
in port, and port security. In most cases the present individual PODs or
groupings thereof are anticipated to become the future CHCs. Since the POD
is the basic operating and accounting unit in the port today, the creation
of a CHC from a POD or a group of PODs would in practice mean a continuation
of present operational and accounting functions, but with direct financial
and legal responsibility for production results to MOC, rather than indirect
responsibility via the HAB. The port organizational reforms will result in
greater accountability on the part of the operating entities of the ports,
and is expected to result in increased port operational efficiency in the
CHCs.



- 10 -
C. Management, Staff and Training
2.07      Operational management is satisfactory, but there is a clear need
to strengthen certain aspects, especially the capability to undertake
investment planning. In addition, there will be a need to develop the
capability to handle containers in the future.
2.08      Port directors and vice directors are appointed by MOC in
consultation with provincial and municipal Government. Heads of departments
are appointed by the HAB subject to the approval of MOC. All other staff
are appointed by the HAB. The HAB can discipline staff, and can hire staff
subject to established ceilings approved by MOC. In personnel matters, the
CHCs within their area of responsibility will have powers similar to those
of the HAB.
2.09      Pay scales, which are determined by the State, are unified through-
out the country and classified by trade or profession.  Scale entry points for
new workers are determined by fellow workers. Bonus incentives and rewards,
based upon individual and overall port performance. Annual targets for
profit, cargo throughput, cost per thousand tons of cargo handled, and cargo
loss/damage are determined and an overall annual bonus of 5% of total wages is
awarded if the plan is fulfilled. The bonus takes the form of individual or
group cash awards and allocations to staff welfare projects. In addition, 20%
of the profit earned in excess of the preceeding year can be used by the HAB
for developing future productivity, collective staff welfare and special
rewards for meritorious effort.
2.10      Apart from annual bonus awards, the pay of stevedores and cargo
handling equipment drivers is partly based on gang productivity. Between
25% and 30% of take home pay is related to output at Huangpu and Shanghai;
whereas bonuses at Tianjin reach 50% when output targets are achieved.
Stevedore and wharf labor is integrated into gangs comprising 16 persons each.
Other categories of workers receive monthly bonuses averaging about 12% of
basic pay.
2.11      Most staff training is provided at educational facilities operated
by MOC and the HABs. MOC offer courses at higher management levels while
HABs give basic and intermediate level training. Courses are also arranged
in association with local universities.
D. Existing Port Facilities
(a) Huangpu
2.12      Huangpu, South China's largest port, is an estuarial port situated
close to the estuary of the Zhujiang, about 130 km northwest of Hong Kong,
and is connected to the South China Sea by a 115 km navigation channel
(Maps 15816, 15817, and 15845).



- 11 -
2.13       The port comprises two existing terminals (districts).  District
1, the older terminal, has 7 berths totalling 1,334 m in length with 8 m
depth below MLW alongside. The recently built District 2 has 5 berths
totalling 920 m in length with 11-12.5 m depth below MLW alongside (Table 1).
Berths 6, 7, and 8 in District 2 are under development, with Berths 7 and 8
comprising the proposed project container terminal. The proposed new coal
terminal is to be developed North of District 2 across one of the many
branches of the Dongjiang.
2.14       The tide is semi diurnal (twice daily) with an average range
between mean high and low water of 1.6 m. In the port area are a multitude
of river branches: the Dongjiang, the Beijiang, and the Xijiang, all of
which combine into the Zhujiang estuary. The port approach channel has two
bars one north of Tiger Island, and the Ling Ting bar south of Tiger Island
(Map 15816), with the Ling Ting bar being the greater navigational obstacle.
The two bars have a combined length of about 53.7 km with a siltation rate
necessitating average annual maintenance dredging of 3.8-4.5 million cu m to
maintain depths of 9 m and 8.6 m below MLW respectively.
2.15       Both port districts are well served by railway with adequate
connections to the hinterland. The Guangzhou--Huangpu highway also serves
both port districts, but it is very narrow (8-12 m) and carries heavy
traffic. It is currently being widened to 18 m and this is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1983.
2.16       Transit sheds, storage warehouses and open storage areas are
adequate (Table 2) and the bulk grain berth has silo storage.
2.17       Power and water supply, and waste disposal systems are adequate,
while telecommunications need some modifications.
(b) Shanghai
2.18       Shanghai, China's largest port, is an estuarial port, situated on
the Huangpo river and is connected to the East Sea through the Changjiang
estuary. The Huangpo river flows into the Changjiang about 90 km from
the light buoy at the Changjiang mouth. The seaward entrance channel to the
port is therefore located in both the Changjiang and the Huangpo river.
(Maps 15814 and 15815).
2.19       The port of Shanghai, one of the largest in the world, has
95 berths totalling 12,759 m in length and is divided into 14 districts with
water depths alongside varying from 3.0 m to 10.5 m below MLW. Only
50 berths can accommodate vessels of 10,000 dwt or more (Table 3). The
entrance to the Huangpo river from the Changjiang is protected by the Wusong
groin mainly to keep the Changjiang sediment away from the harbor. The
Changjiang entrance channel is obstructed by 3 bars: (i) the Tongsha bar
which is maintained at a depth of 7 m below MLW for a length of 32.3 km;
(ii) the Jiangya bar, maintained at a depth of 7.20 m below MLW for a length



- 12 -
of 6-7 km; and (iii) the Yawosha bar, maintained at 7.40 m below MLW for a
variable but short distance. Larger bulk ships are lightened at the
Luhuashan anchorage south of the Changjiang estuary entrance, after which they
can proceed to the port with an acceptable draft. Lightening is achieved
through a 100,000 dwt bulk carrier, anchored in position and fitted with
appropriate cranage.
2.20       Tides are semi diurnal with an average range of about 4.4 m between
mean high and low water levels. The port experiences very heavy siltation
particularly in the Changjiang approach channel. The quantity of siltation
and resulting need for maintenance dredging varies each year depending on the
flood conditions of the Changjiang river, and dredging has averaged about
21 million cu m during the period 1975-80.
2.21       Road access to the existing and project container terminals are
currently adequate. Traffic for the project container terminal will be able
to pass under the main Shanghai port access road to transfer station
(Map 15815) once a nearby bridge has been built. The city of Shanghai has
included this bridge in its plan; work on the bridge will begin in 1985 and
take two to three years. Shanghai's city authorities will be responsible
for taking the necessary steps to alleviate any traffic congestion that may
develop before completion of the bridge by arranging for container traffic
bypass. A large amount of cargo is currently transported from the port by
inland waterway barges and river steamers. Rail access is available in
Districts 6, 9 and 10 and rail connections are available to the North, West,
and Southwest provinces. Rail is one of the major modes of transport to and
from Shanghai.
2.22       Adequate transit sheds, warehouses, and open storage areas are
available and both rail and road services in the port area are adequate
(Table 4).
2.23       The existing container terminal in District 10, has a maximum
practical capacity of 40,000 TEUs per year.  The project container terminal at
Berths 1 and 2 in District 9 is currently under construction.
2.24       Power and water supplies, waste disposal and telecommunications
systems are adequate.
(c) Tianjin
2.25       Tianjin is located about 42 km from the mouth of the Hai river and
120 km Southeast of Beijing. The city-s main port is sited at Xingang, at
the river mouth. Construction of these facilities begun in 1939, replaced
much older and since abandoned shallow facilities near the city. There are
also shallow draft berths for fishing vessels and ships up to 3,000 dwt at
Tangku, a few km upstream of Xingang. A barrage has been built on the Hai
river between Xingang and Tangku for irrigation purposes, and access to
Tanggu is through a navigation lock (Map 15813).
2.26       Tianjin Port has 18 operative berths totalling 3,405 m in length,
with water depths alongside between 8.0 m and 12.0 m below MLW. An addi-
tional 11 berths under construction will add a total length of 2,632 m with
water depths alongside between 11 and 13 m below MLW (Table 5). The port is



- 13 -
protected by North and South breakwaters of 5 km and 8 km in length respec-
tively. The access channel extends from the east side of Xingang lock to
the entrance channel Tagu light tower and is about 24 km in length and 8 m
depth at MLW.
2.27       Tides are semi diurnal with a range of about 2.5 m between mean
high and low water levels. Ice conditions prevail for about three months of
the year during the months of December through February with most severe
conditions in January, but they do not hinder shipping or port operations.
The port and access channel experience heavy siltation necessitating about
8 million cu m in annual maintenance dredging.
2.28       Tianjin Port is connected to the city by two railway lines.  The
port is served also by two highways, with a third highway under construction
that will bypass the city of Tangku, and relieve traffic congestion in the
city.,
2.29      Adequate transit sheds, warehouses, and open storage areas are
available and both rail and road service in the port area are adequate
(Table 6).
2.30       The existing container Berth 21 has been designed to serve second
generation containerships, with a maximum capacity of 100,000 TEUs per
year. The project container Berths 27, 28, and 29 are now under construction.
2.31       Power and water supplies, waste disposal and telecommunication
systems are adequate.
E. Traffic
2.32       The total cargo handled by the 15 national ports in 1980 was 217.3
million tons, of which Shanghai alone handled 39% and Huangpu and Tianjin 6%
and 5% respectively. The three project ports serve as the principal land sea
transfer points for the three most important industrial hinterlands in China.
The three principal bulk cargo ports are Dalian, Qinhuangdao and Qingdao which
together account: for about 35% of total port throughput. The remaining 9
ports, handle only about 15% of the total throughput. Traffic volumes through
the 15 national ports and the three project ports are shown on the next
page for 1975 and 1980.
2.33       The annual growth of port traffic through the 15 national ports
during the period 1975-80 was about 9% which reflects the economic opening of
China to foreign trade. The largest growth is in foreign trade, where imports
more than doubled in five years while exports increased by 83%. Domestic or
coastal traffic also increased significantly during the period, with annual
landings increasing by 6% and annual loadings by 7% between 1975 and 1980. In
1980 coastal traffic accounted for two-thirds of the traffic through the 15
major ports under MOC.



- 14 -
Million tons                  % Annual
1975                  1980            growth in
In     Out   Total   In    Out    Total    total
All National Ports
Foreign               19.8   18.4   38.2   43.6   28.7    72.3    13.6
Domestic              47.7   57.8  105.5   67.7   77.3   145.0         6.6
Total               67.5   76.2  143.7  111.3  106.0   217.3        8.6
Huangpu Port
Foreign                1.9    1.1    3.0    3.5    1.4        4.9    10.3
Domestic               2.7    1.5    4.2    4.8    2.4        7.2    11.4
Total                4.6    2.6    7.2    8.3    3.8    12.1    10.9
Shanghai Port
Foreign                6.6    2.7    9.3   13.6    4.3    17.9    14.0
Domestic              33.6   12.9   46.5   44.4   22.5    66.9         7.5
Total               40.2   15.6   55.8   58.0   26.8    84.8         8.7
Tianjin Port
Foreign                3.6    1.4    5.0    6.3    3.0        9.3    13.2
Domestic               1.5    1.6    3.1    1.6    1.0        2.6    -3.5
Total                5.1    3.0    8.1    7.9    4.0    11.9        8.0
2.34      Traffic composition and projections for the project ports are
detailed in paras. 4.03 through 4.12.
F. Operations
2.35      Each HAB currently is in charge of all cargo handling operations,
port maintenance, administration and security. Most port labor is directly
employed by the HAB on a permanent basis.  With the reorganization of port
operations, responsibilty for cargo-handling operations and labor and
physical assets associated therewith will be transferred to the CHCs as they
are established (paras. 2.05 and 2.06).  Stevedores, wharf and shed labor
work three shifts daily for seven days each week; rest days are staggered on
a rotational basis.  Overtime is paid for holidays or rest days worked.



- 15 -
2.36      Maintenance of both civil works and equipment is adequate.  Each
port has its maintenance and repair workshops, which keep the equipment in
good operating condition, and has its own construction unit for civil works
maintenance.
2.37      Most cargo is moved from and into the ship's hold by portal cranes.
Inward cargo stored in sheds or open storage areas can remain in port for four
days free of charge. The HAB may transfer non-delivered cargo to warehouse
storage and charge consignees for removal costs; however, long-term storage
space is limited.
2.38      A large percentage of the time a ship spends at berth is lost due to
nonship related factors such as unavailability of equipment. Together with
ship waiting time for berths, it results in vessels spending only 40-50% of
their port turnaround time productively. For instance, in 1980 at Huangpu,
out of an average time in port of 8.5 days per vessel, 1.9 days were spent
waiting for a berth and another 2.4 days waiting unproductively at a berth
(Table 7). The proposed project will contain unproductive ship time in the
three project ports through provision of additional berths with high produc-
tivity cargo handling equipment.
2.39      Access to all major ports is depth restricted.  The ports of
Huangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin all have a limiting depth of 7.2 to 8.6 m at
mean low water Level; only a few berths have alongside depths of 10 to 12 m
allowing some deeper draft vessels to enter and exit at high tide. The
access channels to the project ports are under study by MOC for the least
cost dredging that will attain maximum utilization of the project berths.
Some access channel dredging of the project ports is carried out at the
moment as part of the general improvement program for these ports. After
completion of the project, high tide will be utilized as much as possible to
get the larger ships to berth.
2.40       In general, capital and maintenance dredging of ports and their
approaches appears to be excessive, and could be greatly reduced by methods
identified through hydraulic, physical and mathematical model studies based
on updated surveys. In recognition of this, MOC is carrying out continuous
estuarial studies to identify dredging dumping sites and to minimize
dredging quantities at the project ports. River training, channel
realignments, and use of offshore terminals are included in the studies
since they might result in major savings in dredging costs and increased
depths in access channels. It would also appear that in the long run some
of the smaller ports as well as some new locations could offer more economic
port development sites than expansion of existing port facilities. Thus,
there are some port sites such as Qingdao, and Ningbo, which may offer
better opportunities than existing port sites which will require channel
deepening to accomodate modern vessels.
2.41      A significant proportion of cargo moving through congested ports
such as Huangpu and Shanghai is transshipment cargo arriving by waterborne
transport and reloaded at the port onto other waterborne transport. More



- 16 -
attention should continue to be given to direct delivery and use of vessels
which can be utilized both for coastal and inland water transport. In
particular the use of oceangoing barges should be investigated.
Furthermore, a major proportion of the rapidly growing traffic at the
project ports is neither destined for nor arriving from, the immediate
hinterland of the project ports, but to and from places which could be
effectively served by rail, coastal or inland water connections from other
national or provincial ports. Many of these minor ports have equal or
better depth than the three ports, are less congested, and may offer more
economical opportunities for expansion. For the future expansion plans of
the major ports, the most economic and effective global port development
program will be generated by minimizing total transport and investment costs
with due regard to expansion opportunities and the needs of changing
technology. Recognizing the need for such an overall view, MOC has begun
work on a port development plan for the country (para. 1.30).
2.42      Rail traffic within the port is controlled by the railways in some
ports and by the HABs in other ports depending on local conditions. Wagon
turn around time within the ports is normally less than 24 hours.
2.43      In general there appears to be a lack of effective understanding of
the role and the method for introducing modern integrated physical, opera-
tional, and managerial controls. As more modern equipment is introduced,
China will require skills in integrated system controls, including computer or
special purpose data handling devices and the proposed project includes
training therefor.
2.44      Many of the delays in port are caused by the lack of timely
information, such as manifests, cargo plans, and other documents including
even ship or cargo characteristics.  Futhermore, data on traffic, operations
and port conditions vary considerably among ports and even among sections of
the same port. There is an urgent need for uniform specification of cargo,
and other data as well as for the collection, aggregation, storage, retrieval,
and analysis of information to permit improved management and decision making
at all levels; the proposed project includes training for establishing
computerized management information systems in the three project ports.
2.45      Planning and development of container technology has so far been
limited to the ports with little attention given to transport and storage of
containers inland. Container operations can be even more technically and
economically successful if an integrated, intermodal systems approach is
planned and implemented. The government recognizes the need for this and as a
first step is currently planning the establishment of an inland container
terminal at Beijing to be linked to Tianjin Port by road container transport.
As part of the project, the Government will carry out, before December 1984,
a containerization study for the hinterlands of the three project ports with
a view to identifying the inland intermodal terminals, other facilities, and
transport equipment required to take advantage of the door-to-door transport
potential of containerized cargo through the project ports.



- 17 -
G. Costs and Tariffs
2.46      The level of operating costs at the project ports appear to be
reasonable, e.g., not more than 55% of total revenue in 1980. A great deal
of cost data is collected by the HABs; however, no costing system exists
which readily reveals the unit cost of individual port services. Through the
maintenance of separate income and expenditure accounts for some operating
units, a broad indication of the adequacy of some tariff levels is derived.
Additional information on the matter of tariffs and costs will need to be
gradually developed through project and sector work.
2.47      Tariffs for various port services such as ships' dues, wharfage,
storage, etc., are determined by the MOC in consultation with the State
Price Commission. Most current rates were set in 1978 and are generally
lower than comparable charges at Hong Kong (Table 8). Few tariffs are cost
based. Those applicable to foreign ships and import cargo have been
purposely set close to but lower than charges at Hong Kong. Tariffs for
domestic ships and cargo are influenced by state commodity price control,
and export incentive policies. In order to minimize unproductive berth
time, a higher rate of Y 0.10 per net registered ton per day is charged to
vessels for overstaying instead of Y 0.02 per net registered ton per day.
However, storage charges per ton of cargo do not increase with storage time.
HABs now have power to impose storage penalty rates subject to the agreement
of the provincial government. So far increases have been resisted on the
grounds that inadequate means exist to transport cargo out of the ports.
H. Budget, Accounting and Audit
2.48      The MOC prepares for each port operating district annual targets
of traffic throughput, average cost per thousand tons of cargo handled,
length of port stay per ship, ratio of current assets to revenue, average
utilization rate of cargo handling equipment, ratio of cargo loss and damage
to total tonnage handled. From this data, an operating financial plan is
prepared and a net profit projected. The plans are examined by MOC and when
approved by MOC and the Ministry of Finance they constitute the port's
operating budget. Separate budgets are prepared for each HSO. Some budget
flexibility is allowed, such as transfers between items with the exception
of wages. Supplementary budgets can be approved by MOC and the Ministry of
Finance should the need arise.
2.49      Additions to, and replacements of port assets are the subject of
separate budgets called capital plans. Ministerial approval is required for
any capital expenditure exceeding Y 150,000. In the case of new projects
designed to handle more than one million tons of cargo annually, approval of
the State Planning Commission is also required.



- 18 -
2.50      The PODs currently prepare and provide to the HAB the following
financial statements: Funds Balance Sheets (yearly); Statement of Fixed
Assets (yearly), an elaboration of a Balance Sheet item; Special Funds and
Appropriations (yearly), an elaboration of a Balance Sheet item; Statement
of Seaport Handling Cost (monthly), containing information on the plan for
the year and the performance for the reporting month as well as cumulatively
to date; and Statement of Profit (monthly). These financial statements are
now routinely prepared by each POD which forms part of the HAB. The
statements of the PODs are consolidated by the HAB which reports to the MOC.
Identical statements would be provided annually by the CHCs to MOC.
Accounting at the project ports is entirely manual; neither mechanical nor
electronic data equipment is used. Each RAB maintains accounts on a double
entry cash basis for port service transactions but some bureau factories and
repair facilities employ double entry accrual basis accounting. No credit
is allowed by the port to shipping firms and cargo agents. Management
accounting consists of monthly key indices and capital construction progress
statements. Revenue, handling costs and administrative expenses are
examined quarterly and compared with budgets. Final accounts for the year
including a balance sheet are prepared within 50 days of the fiscal year
ending December 31. Annual financial statements on capital construction are
ready within 60 days of the fiscal year end. A separate annual income and
expenditure account is prepared for each HSO, but all HSO assets and
liabilities are incorporated in the HAB's balance sheet.
2.51      Each project port HAB maintains an internal audit system which
exercises current control over sectional accounts and preaudits all bills for
port services and reconciles revenue with cargo manifests. Expense payments
are also preaudited and payrolls verified. A materials control department
checks stores inventories against records on a continuous random basis.
2.52      A contintous audit is conducted by the city financial bureau, in
the case of Shanghai and Tianjin, and, in the case of Huangpu, the
provincial financial bureau. These financial bureaus represent the Ministry
of Finance. No annual certificate is issued by these external auditors who
submit reports directly to the MOC only if they are dissatisfied. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that it will provide
the Bank with audited accounts, by auditors acceptable to the Bank, for each
project CHC within six months of each fiscal year end.
2.53      Additional financial control is exercised by the People's Bank of
China in that cash withdrawals by HABs for wages are restricted by the bank to
the total wage allocation contained in the annual financial plan.



- 19 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Investment Plan
3.01       The objective of the Government of China is to promote investments
in the transport sector that would prevent the sector from becoming a serious
bottleneck to the country's economic development. It is at present drawing up
a five-year national economic development plan for the period 1982-86 and the
total medium and long-term investment needs of service sectors such as
transport will become clear only when the plan draft is released,
Until the five-year plan is finalized, therefore, the MDC and the ports will
only have annual budgets; these are reviewed in Chapter 5. Even at this time,
however, certain bottlenecks in the transport sector have become obvious, such
as the inadequacies of the three project ports to handle growing container
traffic and some special categories of traffic, such as coal. The Government
has indicated that coal handling facilities in Huangpu, and container handling
facilities in Huangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin will be accorded high priority in
the five-year plan.
B. The Project and the Loan
3.02       The Government recognizes that while transport in general is of
great importance, ports in particular have a special position not only in the
transfer of resources between North and South China, but also as the gateways
to foreign markets and to foreign sources of plant, equipment and technology.
Imports of capital and intermediate goods are required to help modernize
industry and agriculture in order to increase productivity and living stan-
dards, and exports are vital to pay for the needed imports.  In fulfillment of
this policy, the Government has already approved major investment programs at
the three project ports of Huangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin for modernization and
expansion of facilities and has requested the Bank's support in their finan-
cing. The objective of the proposed project is to meet short term traffic
requirements in the three most important ports of China while Government
evolves a long-term strategy for meeting the country's requirements for port
facilities through the remainder of the century. The proposed project is
designed to meet short-term traffic requirements of the three project ports
until the mid-1980's and the loan would assist in financing the
implementation of the project. Also, in preparation of future investments
in the transport sector, particularly in relation to this project, the
Government would do as part of the project a containerization study of the
hinterlands of the three ports. This study would identify inland intermodal
terminals, other facilities and transport equipment required to optimize the
door to door transport potential of the containerization of cargo through
these ports.



- 20 -
C. Description of the Main Project Items
3.03      The proposed project consists of:
(a)  Huangpu Coal Terminal (Map 15817):
(i)  construction of a 440 m coal wharf with an alongside depth
of 12.5 m below MLW, capable of accomodating two bulk vessels
of up to 35,000 dwt. Also construction of a 400 m quay at
right angles to the wharf for barge loading of coal, with an
alongside depth of 4 m below MLW for 200 m and 3 m below MLW
for the other 200 m. The northern extremity of the wharf will
be protected by revetment;
(ii)  reclamation of the area required for the stockpile yard and
the rest of the facilities in the terminal and paving of
roadways;
(iii) dredging in front of the coal wharf to a depth of 12.5 m
below MLW. Also dredging for the barge quay as necessary
for the depth of water required;
(iv)  construction of the required auxiliary buildings, a highway
bridge, a railway bridge and ancillary works for the ter-
minal;
(v)  procurement of coal handling equipment; and
(vi)  design and supervision of construction.
(b) Huangpu Container Terminal (Map 15845):
(i)  a 470 m long container wharf now under construction, with
an alongside depth of 12.0 m below MLW. The wharf is an
extension to the iron and steel wharf in District 2. The
south side of the wharf bordering an existing creek will be
protected by revetment;
(ii)  reclamation and paving of the area required for the container
yard and ancillary facilities in the terminal;
(iii) dredging of a basin in front of the wharf to a depth of
12.0 m below MLW;
(iv)  construction of a railway CFS and a roadway CFS and the rest
of the required ancillary buildings and infrastructure;
(v)  procurement of container handling equipment; and



- 21 -
(vi) design and supervision of construction.
(c) Shanghai Container Terminal (Map 15815):
(i)  demolition of existing structures and acquisition of the land;
(ii)  construction of a 424 meters long container wharf, with an
alongside depth of 10.5 m below MLW;
(iii) reclamation and paving of the required area for the container
yard and ancillary facilities;
(iv)  dredging the required basin to a depth of 10.5 m below MLW;
(v)  construction of a roadway/barge CFS and ancillary buildings
and infrastructure;
(vi)  construction of an auxillary transfer station approximately
two kilometers away from the container terminal with roadway
CFS and container yard and ancillary facilities;
(vii) procurement of container handling equipment; and
(viii) design and supervision of construction.
(d) Tianjin Container Terminal (Map 15813):
(i)  an 890 m long container wharf now under construction with
an alongside depth of 12.0 below MLW.
(ii)  reclamation, consolidation, and paving of the area required
for the container yard and ancillary facilities in the
terminal;
(iii) dredging of the required basin to a depth of 12.0 m below
MLW, and dredging of the channel to a depth of 10.0 m below
M LW;
(iv)  construction of a railway CFS and a roadway CFS and
ancillary buildings and infrastructure;
(v)  procurement of the necessary container handling equipment;
and
(vi)  design and supervision of construction.
(e) Training
(i) training of personnel in operating procedures for the coal
terminal at Huangpu, and the container terminals at Huangpu,
Shanghai and Tianjin; and



- 22 -
(ii) training of personnel for the establishment of computerized
management information systems for container operations in
Huangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin;
(f)  Carrying out and completion by December 31, 1984, of a container-
ization study of the hinterlands of the ports of Huangpu, ShanghaLi
and Tianjin, to identify inland intermodal terminals, other
facilities and transport equipment required to optimize the door
to door transport potential of the containerization of cargo of
these ports.
D. Cost Estimates
3.04      Total project cost is estimated at Y 748 million or US$427 million
equivalent with a direct foreign exchange component of Y 220 million or
US$126 million equivalent and an estimated indirect foreign exchange component
of about Y 150 million or US$85 million equivalent. Project cost estimates
are summarized on page 23. Details of costs are presented in Table 9.
3.05      Cost estimates for civil works including design and supervision
are based on final designs and unit prices for ongoing similar works in
China. Equipment costs are based on costs of similar equipment recently
purchased in China and on other Bank financed projects in other countries.
Estimates are in September 1982 prices, and include physical contingencies
for civil works and price contingencies for both civil works and equipment.,
Physical contingencies of 10% have been included for all terminal civil
works except Huangpu container terminal, for which only 5% physical contin-
gency has been added due to it's advanced stage of construction. Based on
discussions with Government, price contingences for all civil works and local
costs assume an annual price increase of 6%. Price contingencies for foreign
direct costs assume an annual increase of 8%, for 1982 and 1983; 7.5% for
1984; 7% for 1985; and 6% for 1986. Customs duties amounting to about 15% of
purchase price would be levied on imported equipment. The direct foreign
exchange component has been based on the cost of all imported materials and
equipment and its erection. The resulting estimated direct foreign exchange
requirements in each project component is shown in para. 3.04 and for the
whole project amounts to about 30%. The indirect foreign exchange component
consists mainly of materials and plants for civil works and has been estimated
at Y 150 million or US$85 million equivalent and amount to about 20% of total
project cost.
E. Financing
3.06      Financing of the project, estimated at US$427 million equivalent
with a direct foreign currency component of US$126 million equivalent will
be met as follows:



Summary of Cost Estimates
Y thousand                       US$ thousand                Foreign %
Item                                          Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total           Loan    of total
Huangpu Port
A.  Civil works, coal terminal                   54,508         -   54,508   31,147            -   31,147          -        -
B.  Civil works, container terminal              78,857         -   78,857   44,948            -   44,948          -        -
C.  Equipment, coal terminal                      3,745   54,968   58,713    2,140   31,410   33,550   31,410              94
D.  Equipment, container terminal                    782   13,491    14,273       447    7,709    8,156    7,709           95
Subtotal                              137,892   68,459  206,351    78,682   39,119  117,801   39,119             33
Shanghai Port
E.  Civil works, container terminal              72,152         -   72,152   41,230            -   41,230          -        -
F.  Equipment, container terminal                 2,944   47,248   50,192       1,682   26,999   28,681    26,999          94
Subtotal                               75,096   47,248  122,344   42,912   26,999   69,911   26,999              39
Tianjin Port
G.  Civil works, container terminal             197,266          -  197,266  112,720           -  112,720          -        -
H.  Equipment, container terminal                 3,686   57,023   60,709    2,106   32,584   34,690   32,584              94
Subtotal                              200,952   57,023  257,975  114,826   32,584  147,410   32,584              22
I.  Training                                      2,625    2,625    5,250    1,500    1,500    3,000               -       50
J.  Containerization Study                         3,500         -    3,500    2,000           -    2,000          -        -
Subtotal                                 6,125    2,625    8,750    3,500    1,500    5,000              -       30
K.  Customs duties                               27,683          -   27,683   15,819           -   15,819          -        -
Base Cost                             447,748  175,355  623,103  255,739  100,202  355,941   98,702              29
L.  Physical contingencies                       35,277          -   35,277   20,149           -   20,149          -        -
M.  Price contingencies                          45,536   44,272   89,808   26,026   25,298   51,324   25,298              49
Subtotal                               80,813   44,272  125,085   46,175   25,298   71,473   25,298              30
Grand Total                           528,561  219,627  748,188  301,914  125,500  427,414  124,000              29



- 24
US$ million equivalenlt
Source of finance      Foreign      Local      Total
IBRD Loan               124e 0                 124.0
Government                 1.5      30K9       303.4
Total              125.5       301 9      427.4
The Bank loan would cover only the direct foreign exchange costs of imported
equipment or the ex factory costs of locally manufactured equipment as wel:L
as direct foreign exchange costs of installation and commissioiaing of the
equipment. Civil works will be financed by the Governme it. Training
requirements and studies will be financed by the %overnment. The Government
also requested Bank assistance in arranging grant financing for training of
port design engineers, and the Government of Norway has agreed to finance
such training as part of its ongoing program of bilateral assistance to
China.
F. Implementation
3.07      The civil works will be implemented by the MOC using the
respective Construction Bureaus at each port site as its contractors and
will be supervised by the respective RAB by full-time engineers and by the
MOC. The Government has already started the construction of the container
terminals at Tianjin, Shanghai, and Huangpu and the work on the coal
terminal at Huangpu.
3.08      Cargo handling equipment totalling US$124 milliorn equivalent inc:Lud-
ing contingencies, and excluding customs duties, would be grouped 4n appro-
priate bidding packages by MOC and procured by the China National Technica:L
Import Corporation acting as Government's agent for the procurement process in
coordination with MOC and the other agencies normally involved in procurement.
International competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement will be used for procurement of all equipment, except for a list
of small items agreed with the Bank, amounting to less than US$200,000 per
contract up to a total of US$1,000,000 which may be procured under contracts
awarded after evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least
three qualified suppliers.  Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a
preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the cif price or the import duty,
whichever is the lower. Bidding packages subject to international competitive
bidding would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procure-ment
documentation and proposed contract award. To help complete the preparation
of the equipment specifications and tender documents, the Government has been



- 25 -
assisted by foreign experts financed by UNDP. Tenders for supply of coal
handling equipment would allow bidders to make offers with alternative
systems designs. The tender documents will specify prequalification or
postqualification requirements and the condition for either will be approved
by the Bank.
3.09      Civil works and cargo handling equipment installation are expected
to be completed by the end of 1986, assuming effectiveness of the proposed
loan by February 1983. Construction, procurement, and installation schedules
are shown in Charts E to L. During negotiations these schedules were
confirmed with Government.
3.10      In order to operate the three project container terminals at
Huangpu, Shanghai, and Tianjin, the Government intends to train 3,850 staff,
technicians, operators and laborers. The coal terminal at Huangpu requires
training of 430 persons of various categories. In all, the proposed project
requires training for 4,300 persons (Table 11). Coal terminal training
facilities already exist in China. For the training of container terminal
personnel, however, the MOC has prepared a 2-3 year recruitment and training
plan   Requirements are divided into two groups: (i) technical staff,
including managers, foremen, heavy machinery drivers and maintenance engi-
neers, and computer specialists; and (ii) administrators, computer program-
mers, and maintenance personnel, technicians, drivers, and laborers. The
first group will be trained mainly abroad, e.g., Japan, Hong Kong and
Singapore. The second group will be trained in the Shanghai Maritime Insti-
tute for varying periods of time depending on specialization. MOC is also
planning, at a later stage, to invite some foreign and Chinese experts to
conduct on-site training for various categories of staff and advise on oper-
ational improvements (Table 12). MOC expects to require foreign technical
assistance in computerization of terminal control procedures for which they
have no experience so far. During negotiations training programs were
discussed and agreed with Government, and assurances were obtained that the
above training programs would be carried out as agreed.
3.11      The containerization study will be carried out by the Comprehen-
sive Transportation Research Institute and completed before December 1984.
During negotiations, agreements were reached with Government that it will
provide draft terms of reference for the study and discuss them with the
Bank before commencing the study and that it will exchange views with the
Bank on the progress and findings of the study.
3.12      None of the proposed container terminals will affect the existing
ecology of the ports; reclamation dredging is envisaged for landfill at the
project sites for Huangpu, and Tianjin. At Shanghai, where the dredged mate-
rial is not planned to be used as fill, it will be disposed of at the regular
dumping sites well away from the port area.  For the coal terminal at Huangpu,
the design incorporates necessary precautions to minimize pollution.



- 26 -
G.  Disbursements
3.13       Disbursements from the proceeds of the loan would be made on the
basis of 100% of foreign cost of imported cargo handling equipment and
erection and commissioning thereof, and 100 of ex-factory cost of domesti-
cally manufactured cargo handling equipment and foreign cost of erection and
commissioning thereof.  On this basis and on the basis of the Implementation
Schedules shown in Charts E to L, a schedule of estimated disbursements has
been prepared (Table 10).  The estimated schedule for quarterly disbursements
is based on the assumption that the proposed loan will become effective by
February 1983.  The estimated disbursement schedule was based on disbursement
profiles of other similar port projects in China carried out by MOC.  The
estimated disbursement profile for the three ports project is compressed in
time compared to that of other Bank financed transport projects since 1970,
since: (i) the civil works of the projects are well advanced and, in the
case of of Huangpu Port, almost complete; and (ii) the project involves the
supply of equipment which is usually disbursed quite rapidly and on time.
Disbursement by the Bank is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.
During negotiations, the disbursement schedule was discussed and agreed with
Gove rnment.
H. Completion Report and Economic Impact Study
3.14      Promptly after completion of the project, the MOC will prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report on the execution and initial operation of the
project, its costs, and the benefits derived and to be derived from it.
Also, in order to assess the economic impact of the container CHCs on
general cargo handling after completion of the project, MOC will instruct
each of the container CHCs to carry out economic cost-benefit analyses on
their impact on general cargo handling in their respective ports.  These
economic analyses will be carried out at the end of the first and fourth
years following completion of the project.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.01      The proposed project will increase port handling capacity and reduce
cargo handling cost in the three largest ports of China, Huangpu, Shanghai and
Tianjin. During the past five years, coal traffic through Huangpu port, and
general cargo traffic of containerizable cargo through all three ports has



- 27 -
increased rapidly and further increases are anticipated as a consequence of
general growth in production of agricultural and light industrial products as
well as in regional consumption of coal.  Substantial foreign and local cost
savings will be achieved by increased port handling capacity and by more
efficient port handling methods, and the proposed project would support berth
construction and conversion as well as acquisition of modern coal and
container handling equipment for this purpose.  The main direct beneficiaries
from the proposed project and their estimated direct shares of the project
benefits will be ship operators, 79%, cargo owners, 14%, and the ports, 7%.
If 60% of total containerizable traffic is assumed to be carried on Chinese-
controlled ships (para. 1.25) and all benefits on containerizable import cargo
acrue to China, the direct Chinese share of benefits from the container berths
would amount to about 62% of total, with the remaining 38% of benefits
accruing to foreign ship and cargo owners. If all benefits from the Huangpu
coal berth accrue to China, the direct Chinese share of the combined benefits
from the coal and container project berths would amount to about 70% of total
with the remaining 30% of benefits accuring to foreign ship and cargo owners.
4.02      The weighted economic return on the main project components inclu-
ding training is 29%.
B. Traffic
4.03      Traffic statistics covering the period 1975-80 and traffic forecasts
covering the period 1980-95 were prepared by the three project ports and are
shown in detail in Tables 13-15.  The traffic forecasts were based on past
trends in traffic growth adjusted by traffic expected to be generated by
specific development projects within the respective port hinterlands.  Given
the current absence of an approved five-year development plan and the
uncertainty about traffic growth arising from the ongoing readjustment of the
economy, the overall traffic growth forecast is reasonable.
(a) Huangpu
4.04      The port of Huangpu, situated on the Zhujiang some 130 km northwest
of Hong Kong, serves the city of Guangzhou and environs, which constitute one
of China's major concentrations of industrial activities and the largest in
South China. Huangpu serves many of the adjoining provinces both for
international and domestic trade and is the third port in China in terns of
economic importance.
4.05       In 1980 the port handled 12.1 million tons of cargo, of which
4.9 million tons were in foreign trade and the balance of 7.2 million tons in
domestic trade. Of foreign trade, imports constituted 3.5 million tons and
exports 1.4 million tons.  Coal traffic accounted for 1.7 million tons, and
general cargo accounted for 3.4 million tons of which about 960,000 tons were
containerizable.  Only foreign traffic is containerized and accounted for
59,000 tons in 1980.



- 28 -
4.06      Huangpu port traffic 1975-95 is shown in detail in Table 13 and is
summarized below:
Million tons            % Annual growth
1975  1980   1985  1990  1995  1975-85  1985-95
Coal                   2.5   1.7    3.2   5.9   6.6        2.5      7.5
Other dry bulk          1.8   2.9    4.6   9.2  10.6       9.8      8.7
Liquid bulk             0.7   2.7    3.2   4.7   5.9    16.4        6.3
Bagged cargo           0.5   1.4    1.7   2.7   3.4    13.0         7.2
General cargo           1.7   3.4    3.9   4.5   7.5       8.7      6.8
Total             7.2  12.1   16.6  27.0  34.0        8.7      7.4
Containerizable        0.4   1.0    1.2   1.4   1.7    11.6         3.5
Containerized          -      0.06   0.4   0.8   1.0       n.a.    9.6
The drop in coal traffic through Huangpu between 1975 and 1980 reflects a
switch from coastal shipping to railway transport due to lower railway trans-
port cost for which the coal consuming enterprises had to account seperately
from 1980 onwards. The switch caused congestion on the railway and coal
traffic through Huangpu is now recovering: traffic growth is expected to
remain high due to regional growth in power demand. Of containerizable cargo,
only foreign cargo is projected to be containerized. The low traffic projec-
tion for containerizable cargo during the period 1985-95 is very conservative
and reflects the current cautious view of the long term direction of the
economy.
(b) Shanghai
4.07      Shanghai port is located on the Huangpu River some 30 km upstream
its confluence with the Yangtze. With a population of over 10 million and an
industrial work force of over 2 million, the Shanghai area contains the most
important concentration of industrial activities in China, from the manufac-
ture of textiles to heavy industry of all types. The port serves not only the
foreign trade needs of the city for imports of steel and export of finished
products, but also as the main gateway for the area industries in their
domestic movement of raw material and finished products through coastal and
river shipping. For foreign trade, the port also serves inland cities such as
Nanjing and adjoining provinces of central China.
4.08      In 1980 the port handled a total of 84.8 million tons of cargo, of
which 17.9 million tons was foreign trade traffic and the rest domestic. Of
the foreign trade, 13.6 million tons were imports and 4.3 million ton exports.
General cargo traffic accounted to 21.8 million tons of which 5.4 million tons
were containerizable. Only foreign traffic is containerized and amounted to
244,000 tons in 1980.



- 29 -
4.09      Shanghai port traffic 1975-95 is shown in detail in Table 14 and is
summarized below:
Million tons               % Annual growth
1975  1980    1985   1990   1995   1975-85  1985-95
Dry bulk           29.6  48.1    54.0   66.3   73.3        6.2       3.1
Liquid bulk        10.2  11.5    13.4   14.6   14.6        2.8       0.9
Bagged cargo        2.0   3.4      3.2    4.1    5.1       4.8       4.8
General cargo      14.0  21.8    32.4   40.0   47.0        8.8       3.8
Total         55.8  84.8   103.0  125.0  140.0        6.3       3.1
Containerizable    3.2   5.4       9.3   11.6   13.7    11.3         3.9
Containerized         -   0.24    1.3    6.0    7.0        n.a.    18.3
Of containerizable cargo, only foreign cargo is projected to be containerized.
The low traffic projection for the period 1985-95 is conservative and reflects
the current cautious view of the long term direction of the economy and the
future development of Shanghai port which has limited expansion possibilities
in its present location.
(c) Tianjin
4.10      Located some 120 km southeast of Beijing, the Tianjin area contains
the second largest concentration of manufacturing activities in China with
some 1.25 million workers. The port is, therefore, the leading port of north
China serving both the country's capital and the Tianjin industrial complex.
In addition, its hinterland includes large areas of the north and northwest
and ports of Shandong and Henan.  Farm products, handicrafts and manufactured
goods are exported through the port. The area abounds in natural resources
salt, petroleum, natural gas, geothermal power, coal and building materials
within a radius of 200 km. The region is thus poised for rapid growth, with
resultant impact on its foreign trade which is expected to grow 8-10% p.a.
4.11      In 1980, the port handled 11.9 million tons of cargo of which 8.7
million tons was in foreign trade and 3.2 million tons in domestic, coastal
trade. Of the foreign trade traffic, imports constituted 6.3 million tons,
mostly wheat and iron and steel, and exports only 2.4 million tons. General
cargo traffic accounted to 5.4 million tons of which 2.3 million tons were
containerizable. Only foreign trade is containerized and accounted for
138,000 tons in 1980.
4.12      Tianjin port traffic 1975-95 is shown in detail in Table 15 and is
summarized below:



- 30 -
Million tons                   % Annual growth
1975    1980    1985    1990    1995    1975-85  1985-95
Dry bulk              3.0      5.1      6.6      8.7     9.2       7.2       5.5
Liquid bulk           0 .6     0 .6     0.9      1.3     1.4       4.1       4.5
Bagged cargo          0.4      0.8      0.9     0.9      1.0       8.4       1.1
General cargo          4.2     5.4      7.9    11.5    14.7        6.5       6.4
Total            8.2    11.9    16.3    22.4    26.3          7.1       4.9
Containerizable        1.4     2.3      3.4      4.9     5.6       9.3       5.1
Containerized         -        0.1      1.9      3.8     4.0       n.a.      7.7
of containerizable cargo, only foreign cargo is projected to be container-
ized. The low traffic projection for the period 1985-95 is conservative and
reflects the current cautious view of the long-term direction of the economy.
(d) Intermodal Transfer
4.13       Intermodal transfer of cargo in the ports is shown in Table 16,
which shows the mode of transport by which cargo enters and leaves the
project ports.  Intermodal transfer volumes are not directly comparable to
the traffic volumes shown in paras. 4.03-4.12, which represent the tonnage
handled over the docks, counting cargo arriving and leaving by wster
transport twice and cargo entering or leaving by land transport only once.
4.14      Hluangpu.  The most important modes of transport to and from
Huangpu in 1980 were coastal shipping, river and railway, with road
transport playing a rlatively minor role. Most coal arrived by coastal and
ocean shipping with onward transport by river, 600,000 tons, and rail,
250,000 tons.  With the establishment of the proposed coal berth, the volume
of coal to be transported to and from Huangpu will increase by more than
100% over the next 5-7 years.  The railways have indicated that transport of
coal is among their highest priorities over the next 5-10 years, and are
expected to allocate sufficient wagons to accommodate demand of coal trans-
port by rail from Huangpu. River transport is also expected to handle ade-
quately the demand for coal transport by river generated through the new
coal berth.  For general cargo, river transport, 954,000 tons, and rail
transport, 923,000 tons, are the most important modes. Since currently
there are no plans for rail transport of containers, and since only a small
amount of containers will be carried by road, it has been assumed that
containerized traffic will continue to be carried as break bulk by rail and
road with most of the increase in general cargo being carried by road. Of
the potential benefits from containerization, therefore, only those
occurring within the port perimeter would be realized in the near future and
are accounted for in the analysis.  The proposed containerization study
(para. 2.45) would identify ways in which all potential benefits from
containerization could be captured in the longer term.



- 31 -
4.15      Shanghai.  The dominating modes of transport to and from Shanghai in
1980 were coastal shipping, 36,554,000 tons, river transport, 30,369,000 tons,
and lighterage, 23,802,000 tons, followed by road, 12,294,000 tons, and rail,
5,382,000 tons. River transport takes place mainly on the Changjiang. Road
transport is mainly short distance between the port and the immediate indus-
trial hinterland in the Shanghai area. It is expected that containerizable
cargo will be carried mainly by rail, 1,296,000 tons, and road, L,100,000
tons, with road transport covering short distance local traffic and railway
transport covering medium and long distance traffic. Since there are no firm
plans for either rail or road transport of containers, it has been assumed
that containerized traffic will continue to be carried as break bulk by rail
and road with most of the increase in general cargo being covered by road. Of
the potential benefits of containerization, therefore, only those occurring
within the port perimeter would be realized in the near future and are
accounted for in the analysis. The proposed containerization study (para.
2.45) would identify ways in which all potential benefits from containeriza-
tion could be captured in the longer term.
4.16      Tianjiin.  The most important modes of transport serving the port of
Tianjin are rail, 6,291,000 tons and road, 2,811,000 tons. Containerizable
cargo is transported almost exclusively to and from the hinterland by road,
2,299,000 tons, and containerized cargo are expected to be exclusively carried
by road. The two cities of Tianjin and Beijing and the surrounding province
Hebei, plan to establish a joint transport company for container transport by
road between Tianjin and the industrial area of Beijing. There are also plans
for establishing in the industrial area south of Beijing, a container termi-
nal, which will act as a container freight station and cargo consolidation
area. As is the case for the two other ports, the railways currently have no
plans for carrying containers, and container traffic in the future is expected
to be carried almost exclusively by road. The proposed containerization study
(para. 2.45) would identify ways in which potential benefits from containers
transport by rail could be captured in the longer term.
C. Ship Time Analysis
(a) Huangpu
4.17      In 1980, coal carriers spent an average of 4 days in port, of which
waiting for berth accounted for half a day and unproductive time at berth for
nearly one day. Foreign trade general cargo ships spent an average of over 10
days in port, of which waiting for berth accounted for nearly two days and
unproductive time at berth for more than three days. With the projected
growth in traffic, by 1985 ship time waiting for berth will increase further,
with resulting severe congestion in the port, unless the facilities are
improved and expanded to cope with the growing traffic. General cargo berth
occupancy in 1980 was above 90%.
(b) Shanghai
4.18      In 1980, foreign trade general cargo ships spent an average of over
nine days in port of which waiting for berth accounted for more than two days



- 32 -
and unproductive time at berth for more than five days. The anticipated
growth in traffic will result in serious congestion in the port unless the
facilities are improved and expanded to raise cargo handling capacity in step
with the growth of traffic. General cargo berth occupancy in 1980 was about
70%.
(c) Tianjin
4.19      In 1980, foreign trade general cargo ships spent more than 8 days at
Tianjin port, of which waiting for berth accounted for more than three days
and unproductive time as berth for two days. The port plans to deal with
these problems partly through additional facilities and equipment and partly
through operational improvements. Without such measures, ship time in port,
particularly ship time waiting for berth, will increase to unacceptable levels
by 1985. General cargo berth occupancy in 1980 was about 70%.
D. Operational Parameters
(a) Coal Berths
4.20      Operational parameters for the existing and proposed berths of
Huangpu assumed for the economic evaluation are shown in Table 17. Average
ship load is based on actual performance. Maximum berth utilization has been
assumed at 65% with scheduled ship arrivals. Ship size has been assumed at
17,000 dwt, which is the largest vessel size that can be accommodated by the
river access channel to the port without major capital dredging.
(b) Container Berths
4.21      Operational parameters for existing, converted, and proposed con-
tainer berths at Huangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin assumed for the economic
evaluation are shown in Table 18. Average shiploads are based on actual
performance in 1980. Maximum berth utilization has been assumed at 95% for
break-bulk berths and 50% for container berths with random ship arrivals.
Average ship size has been assumed at 10,000 dwt for break-bulk vessels and
17,000 dwt (1,000 TEUs) for container vessels. All three ports have some
congestion now, with foreign trade general cargo vessels waiting times
ranging from 2.5 days in Huangpu and Shanghai to 3.5 days in Tianjin. With
the projected annual growth in coal through Huangpu and general cargo foreign
trade through all three ports over the next decade of 12% and 8% respectively,
the situation by 1985 would become intolerable in Huangpu and Shanghai and
difficult in Tianjin, unless the facilities are improved and expanded and new
facilities provided where required. Berth occupancy at all three ports is
close to 90% in the busy fall season and productivity is already very high.
The ports are working an average 16.3 hours per day 320 days a year; this
takes into account working time lost due to repair and maintenance of equip-
ment, weather, and holidays.



- 33 -
E. Benefits and Costs
(a) Benefits
4.22      Quantifiable benefits attributed to the proposed improvements in
the project ports consist of: cargo-handling savings, ship time savings,
and cargo time savings. Project berths have been assumed to reach full
utiliztion in the third year after commissioning. Benefits from project
berths have been assumed constant from the third year after commissioning
onwards. The traffic demand and ship berth and waiting time without and
with proposed project is shown in Tables 19 through 22 and the estimated
benefits for each project component are summarized in Table 23.
4.23      Cargo Handling Savings.  Port handling cost for coal over existing
and proposed berths were estimated at Y 1.00/ton and Y 0.75/ton respectively.
Port handling costs for container cargo over existing and proposed berths were
estimated at Y 15/ton and Y 10/ton respectively. For coal the costs represent
handling from ship to dock; for general cargo and containers the costs repre-
sent handling costs from ship to transit shed and CFS respectively.  Since
currently the ports have no cost information on specific port handling opera-
tions for coal, break bulk cargo, or containers, the costs were estimated on
the basis of cost and tariff information on similar port handling operations
in the region, modified in the light of lower labor costs in Chinese ports.
4.24      Ship Time Savings.  These include both the reduction in ship time
while awaiting berth and lower berth occupancy time due to improved cargo
handling productivity. Estimates of ship time in port without and with the
project were based on estimated operational parameters for existing and
proposed berths in the three project ports (paras. 4.20 and 4.21). Ship berth
and waiting time savings are estimated on the basis of representative ship
costs in port shown in Table 24. The ship costs in port used for the economic
analysis are Y 15,000/day in port for break bulk general cargo ships and bulk
carriers, and Y 25,000/day in port for medium sized container vessels.
4.25      Cargo Time Savings.  These include both the reduction in cargo time
while awaiting berth and lower berth occupancy time due to improved cargo
handling productivity. Cargo time savings were calculated as saved interest
on cargo value; cargo value is estimated at an average Y 120/ton for coal and
Y 1,500/ton for container cargo. Coal cargo value was based on an average
US$55/ton fob Australia plus ocean freight and trans-shipment to barges at
Chinese port of destination at about US$15/ton. Container cargo value was
based on current average value of containerizable cargo through the three
project ports.
4.26      Other Savings.  These include avoided cargo diversion to other ports
with consequent increase in transport time and cost, as well as reduced
breakage and pilferage of container cargo. While information is insufficient
for their estimation, these savings would be substantial, and their inclusion
would increase the economic viability of the project.



- 34 -
(b)  Costs
4.27      Project cost estimates were adjusted for the economic evaluation as
follows:  (i) price contingencies, taxes and duties were excluded; (ii) an
annual maintenance cost of 2% was assumed for civil works and 7.5% for
equipment; and (iii) a project life of 20 years was used for all project
components. To reflect higher maintenance costs and/or replacement costs of
project equipment as it grows older, equipment maintenance costs were
increased by 50% from 1996 through 2005. The economic project costs for each
port are summarized in Table 23. For the purpose of the economic evaluation
the cost of capital was assumed to be 15% and the foreign exchange rate was
assumed to be Y1.75 = US$1.00, which was the foreign exchange rate effective
at the time of appraisal. Estimates of the opportunity cost of foreign
exchange were not attempted, but would probably result in a higher rate of
exchange than the one assumed above as well as a higher economic return of the
project.
F. Project
(a) Huangpu
4.28      The Huangpu project components include:  (i) construction of two
coal berths totalling 440 m and provision of appropriate coal bulk handling
equipment for two berths; and (ii) cargo handling equipment for use at a 470 m
long container wharf now under construction and due for completion in late
1982. The project would be implemented during the period 1982-85. Capital
costs inclusive of supervision and training costs would amount to Y 223.7
million of which Y 116.7 million would be for the coal berth and Y 107.1
million would for the container berth. Annual recurrent costs would amount to
Y 8.7 million until 1995 and Y 11.9 million thereafter. Savings in 1988 would
amount to Y 191.5 million, of which Y 82.2 million for the coal berth and Y
109.6 million for the container berth. Based on a project implementation
period of four years and a project life of twenty years, the Huangpu project
would yield a combined economic return of 39%, or 39% for the coal berth and
39% for the container berth.
(b) Shanghai
4.29      The Shanghai project component includes cargo handling equipment for
use at a 424 meter long container wharf, construction of which is expected to
start in late 1981 and be financed from government's own sources. The project
would be implemented during the period 1982-85. Capital costs inclusive of
supervision and training would amount to Y 139.6 million followed by annual
recurrent costs of Y 5.3 million until 1995 and Y 7.2 million thereafter.
Savings in 1988 would amount to Y 51.4 million. Based on a project
implementation period of four years and a project life of twenty years, the
Shanghai project would yield an economic return of 23%.
(c) Tianjin
4.30      The Tianjin project component includes cargo handling equipment for
use at an 890 meter long container wharf now under construction. The wharf is



- 35 -
due for completion in late 1981. Allowing for delay in fill consolidation,
port officials expect completion of yard paving and auxiliary buildings by
1984.  The project would be implemented during the period 1982-85.  Capital
costs inclusive of supervision and training would amount to Y 297.1 million
followed by annual recurrent costs of Y 9.4 million until 1995 and Y 12.0
million thereafter. The project is specifically designed to attract container
traffic. By expanding and improving cargo handling and storage facilities,
the project will reduce ship and cargo time and port handling costs. Savings
in 1988 would amount to Y 113.4 million which would grow with traffic. Based
on a project implementation period of four years and a project life of twenty
years the Tianjin project would yield an economic return of 21%.
G. Overall Economic Evaluation and Risks
4.31      Overall economic evaluation shows that implementation of all
project items are well justified. The economic returns for each major
project element as well as their sensitivity to variations in costs and
benefits are shown below (in %):
Huangpu            Shanghai    Tianjin
Coal   Container  Total   container  container   Total
Assumptions             berths    berth    berths   berths        berths    project
Best estimate of
costs and benefits       39      39         39        23         21          29
15% increase in costs
Best estimate of
benefits                 35      36         36        21         19          23
Best estimate of costs
25% decrease in
benefits                 31      33         32        18         16          26
15% increase in costs
25% decrease in
benefits                 28      30         29        15         14          20
The results show that even with 15% increase in project costs and 25% decrease
in benefits, the total project would still yield an economic return of 20%.
Assuming, as a worst case, a 10 year project life, a 15% increase in costs and
a 25% decrease in benefits, the economic return for the total project
would still be 18% which is acceptable.



- 36 -
4.32      All project components involve proven technology that has been in
extended use in other parts of the world; technological risks connected with
the project are therefore small.  In addition, MOC and the three ports
involved have successfully undertaken large scale port construction works
and have competent managerial and technical expertise therefor; erection of
the cranes and conveyor systems will be the responsibility of the supplier.
Project implementation risks, therefore, are small. Managerial and
technical expertise in container handling operations, however, is currently
limited. Risks from inexperienced container terminal operation, therefore,
are present in the early years, but the project includes training to reduce
those risks.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      The project ports are efficiently operated and a reasonable level of
budgetary control is achieved through the use of annual financial plans based
upon preset operational targets. During 1978-80 the highest working ratio
achieved was 58, but ratios below 50 resulted in most years, which is a very
commendable performance. The lowest financial rate of return, calculated as
net operating revenue as a percentage of average net fixed assets in use,
was a satisfactory 12.6%. Some features of the financial system, however,
are less than satisfactory and should be reviewed. Some fixed assets whiclh
are referred to as basic facilities, i.e., wharves, breakwaters, roads and
rail track, are undoubtedly undervalued in Shanghai as much of the port's
infrastructure was constructed many years ago. By comparison, assets at
Huangpu, which is a relatively new port, are probably valued at close to
current replacement cost. It is significant that Huangpu and Tianjin show
rates of return of 12.7% and 12.6% respectively in 1980, whereas Shanghai
shows a rate of return around 31%. An annual depreciation charge is made
only in respect of fixed assets other than basic facilities. The cost of
renewing or rehabilitating basic facilities is charged against revenue from
harbor dues earned by the HAB in the year in which it is incurred. Although
large sums have been forecast for expenditures of this nature, such an
accounting practice could result in the postponement of necessary renewals
expenditure to ensure that the year's net revenue is maintained at an
acceptable level. Not surprisingly, actual renewal expenditures during
1978-80 were considerably less than the liberal forecasts for 1981-86. This
practice also tends towards uneven expenditure levels, making a comparison
of annual results difficult. It is also less reliable than a universally
accepted depreciation charge when determining cost of services for tariff
setting purposes.
5.02      A unique formula is employed by the Government to determine what
proportion of annual net revenue is retainable by the ports and how much is
to be remitted (monthly) to the Government.  Details of this formula are given
in Table 25. Application of the formula results in the ports remitting about
88% of their annual net income to the Government. The Government uses these
resources to finance capital works at the major ports and for the procurement



- 37 -
of major equipment.  Such new fixed assets are taken into the port's balance
sheet as construction or acquisition is undertaken. The Government also
uses port remittances to finance port access channel maintenance dredging.
5.03       Consideration is now being given by MOC to alternative methods of
providing greater incentive for ports to maximize the use of their financial
resources. However, until this formula is changed, the project ports will not
finance new basic facilities or service a loan in respect thereof. This
financial evaluation is therefore based on the present formula which will
result in the Government being responsible for financing the proposed project
and servicing the related Bank loan. This evaluation assumes that Bank loan
terms will be borne by MOC out of surplus monies received from the project
ports.
B. Present and Future Financial Performance
5.04      Income and expenditure accounts for 1978-86 for Huangpu, Shanghai
and Tianjin are given in Tables 26 to 28 respectively.  Tables 29 to 31 show
revenue from harbor dues and HSO harbor services as well as the expenditures
incurred in collecting harbor dues and providing HSO harbor services in each
port.  The HSO net revenues are incorporated in Tables 26 to 28.  The HSO has
no independent budget resources and passes on all revenue collected by it to
the HAB, which in turn, out of its budget, covers all cost incurred by HSO.
Summarized comparative data for the ports are given below for 1981, 1984 and
1986 (in Y million):
Year                                       Huangpu   Shanghai   Tianjin
1981
Operating revenue                      72.0         293.8       104.4
Operating expenditure                  44.9         165.4        63.4
Net operating revenue                  27.1         128.4        41.0
1984
Operating revenue                      86.0         336.0       137.4
Operating expenditures                 58.4         196.1        89.4
Net operating revenue                  27.6         139.9        48.0
1986
Operating revenue                     101.8         373.3       163.2
Operating expenditure                  71.5         223.3       110.9
Net operating revenue                  30.3         154.0        52.3



- 38 -
5.05      Projected revenues are based on traffic forecasts in Tables 32
through 34. Forecasts of revenue from loading and unloading cargo, which
represents more than 60% of alongside port operations, are given in Tables 29
to 31. Forecast operating expenses allow for a 67 annual rate of inflation on
most costs. Key financial assumptions used in forecasting are given in
Table 25.
5.06      Tables 26 to 28 show forecast working ratios.  Huangpu ranges from
51% to 567% during 1981-84, decreasing to around 557. by 1986. Tianjin ranges
from 53%/ to 58!. during 1981-84, remaining at 58% by 1986.  Shanghai ranges
from 5M% to 52X during 1981-84, remaining at 527% by 1986. The financial rate
of return at Huangpu and Tianjin ranges from 11.2% to 15.1% during 1981-84.
In 1986 the rate of return deteriorates to 7.37% at Huangpu and 9.37% at Tianjin
due partly to the cumulative effect of inflation since 1981 and because the
full cost of the proposed project is included in net fixed assets in 1986,
whereas the new facilities will not be operating at maximum capacity until
several years later.  The rate of return at Shanghai was 24.8% in 1981,
falling to 23.97. by 1986. The above operating ratios are satisfactory;
however the rate of return at Huangpu and Tianjin is inordinately low after
1984 indicating a need to revise tariffs to take account of the effects of
inflation on operating expenses after 1981. Tariff revisions in 1985 would
coincide with the coming into use of part of the proposed project at these
ports. In the case of Shanghai, fixed assets need to be revalued (para. 5.01)
following which rates of return similar to those earned at Huangpu and Tianjin
could be expected. Tariff revision at Shanghai also is expected to become
desirable by 1985.
5.07      Balance sheets of the project ports for 1977-80 are given in Table
35 and cash flow during this period is shown in Table 36. Balance sheets for
1981-86 are given in Table 37 and cash flow forecasts for the same period in
Table 38. Current tatios throughout are adequate, ranging between 2.4 and 3.5
at Shanghai and between 4.3 and 8.0 at Huangpu and Tianjin. It has been
assumed that the proposed loan will not appear in future port accounts but
will be serviced by MOC. If the loan were to be shown in the port accounts,
the debt equity ratio and debt interest coverage would be as follows:
Ratios                     1984     1986
Huangpu
Debt/Equity Ratio                         10/90    13/87
Interest charge coverage (times)            8.3       3.7
Shanghai
Debt/Equity Ratio                          3/97     8/92
Interest charge coverage (times)           63.3      21.7
Tianjin
Debt/Equity Ratio                          6/94    10/90
Interest charge coverage (times)           17.9       6.3
The above ratios are satisfactory.



- 39 -
5.08       Table 39 shows forecasts of cash resources derived by MOC from the
project ports, the proceeds of the proposed loan and the forecast disposition
of these resources in the execution of the proposed project. The table is, in
fact, an estimate of MOC's financing plan related to the three project ports
during the construction period. The MOC cash flow related to the project
ports is summarized below (in Y million):
Total
1981-86         %
Cash Requirements
Investment-proposed ports project /a                     741.1          55
Project ports channel maintenance dredging               269.6          20
Containerization study                                     3.5           0
Staff training                                              5.3          1
Proposed IBRD loan interest and charges                   42.5           3
Balance-available for other investments                  284.5          21
Total cash requirements                            1,346.5        100
Cash Available
Remittances from project ports
Share of net revenue                                 1,O 13.4         75
Share of depreciation                                   51.5           4
Levy on Shanghai assets                                 64.6           5
Subtotal                                           1,129.5         84
Proposed IBRD Loan                                     217.0         16
Total cash available                               1,346.5        100
/a  Y 38.7 million expended on project prior to January 1, 1981.
5.09       The above table shows that the difference between total project
cost, and the proposed bank loan, will be met from surplus revenues and
depreciation funds remitted to MOC by the three project ports. In addition,
using these remittances, MOC will be able to finance the containerization
study, channel maintenance dredging at the project ports, and the proposed
loan service charges.  Furthermore, MOC will have available over the 6-year
period about Y 285 million to meet capital investment needs other than the
proposed project.  At the time of writing, these needs are not yet known as
the Government's Five-Year Development Plan 1982-86 remains under preparation.
In the event that less than Y 285 million is required by the project ports for
additional port improvements, the balance will be available for capital works
at other major ports.



- 40 -
C. The CHCs
5.10      While project preparation and appraisal has been based on the
traditional organization and operation of the entire port, the reforms now
in progress (paras. 2.05 and 2.06) will make the CHCs the primary organiza-
tional and economic/financial entities for the project. Their financial and
operational performance will be the object of the project dialogue with the
Bank in the future. To ensure an adequate basis for this dialogue with
Government, it was agreed that it would provide to the Bank financial and
operational information related to the project as follows:
(a)  Financial Reporting.  For each project CHC, the following will
be provided annually: the Funds Balance Sheet, the Statement of
Fixed Assets, the Statement of Special Funds and Appropriations;
the Statement of CHC Handling Cost; and the Statement of Profit;
and
(b)  Operational Reporting.  For each project CHC, monthly data on the
following will be collected and then provided annually:
(i) tonnage and containers handled and stored, and percentage
of break bulk cargo and containers transported in and out
by rail, road and waterway; and
(ii) ship arrivals; ship waiting time; berth time vacant;
berth time occupied, unworkable; berth time occupied,
workable but unworked; berth time occupied, worked; gang
and crane time total; and gang and crane time idle.
5.11      In view of the need for continuing generation of adequate
resources by the project CHCs to cover expenditures made for project CHC
operations, assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations
that, for each fiscal year starting with fiscal year 1986 it will take or
cause each project CHC to take such measures as shall be necessary to ensure
that in respect of each project CHC total CHC expenditures excluding
depreciation shall not exceed 50% of total CHC revenue.
5.12      As described earlier (para. 2.46) there does not now exist a
costing system for the unit costs of individual services. Therefore,
assurances have been obtained from the Government that it will cause each
of the Project CHCs to carry out a study of the annual operating costs it
incurs during at least the first full year of operation of its facilities
constructed under the Project, and will exchange views with the Bank on the
terms of reference and findings of each such study.



- 41 -
D. Sensitivity Analysis
5.13       The following table shows the resultant decline in cash available
to MOC during 1981-86 in the event of (i) operating expenses exceeding
estimates by 5% annually; (ii) revenues falling by 5% annually due to lower
than forecast traffic growth; and (iii) proposed project costs increasing by
10% overall during the period 1982-86 (in Y million):
Assumption                                                                  Total
5% increase in operating expenses                                           100.5
5% reduction in revenue as a result of lower traffic growth                 164.8
Subtotal                                                              265.3
Less reduction in variable operating expenses resulting
from lower traffic                                                        44.9
Total decline in cash available to ports                              220.4
Total decline in cash remitted to MOC                                 194.0
10% increase in project costs                                               66.1
Total decline in surplus monies related to project ports
and available to MOC for non-project investments                    260.1
The result would be a decrease of about Y 260 million during 1981-86 in the
total project port related surplus monies to HIOC. This would eliminate all
but Y 25 million of the funds which would otherwise be available for major
capital works other than the proposed project during 1981-86.  Until details
of the Government's 1982-86 investment plan is announced, it is not possible
to indicate what significance this would have on the execution of the plan
insofar as the project ports are concerned.
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01       During loan negotiations, agreements were reached with the
Borrower on the following principal matters:
(a) it will provide the Bank with audited accounts, by auditors
satisfactory to the Bank, for each project CHC within six months
of each fiscal year end (para. 2.52);



- 42 -
(b)  it will carry out a training program in accordance with a plan
agreed with the Bank (para. 3.10).
(c)  it will, starting with fiscal year 1986, take or cause each
project CHC to take such measures as shall be necessary to ensure
that in respect of each project CHC total CHC expenditures
excluding depreciation shall not exceed 50% of total CHC revenue
(para. 5.11).
(d) it will cause each CHC to carry out a study of the annual
operating costs it incurs during at least the first full year of
operation of its facilities under the project, and will exchange
views with the Bank on the terms of reference and findings of
each such study (para. 5.12).
6.02       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$124 million to the People's Republic of China for a term of 20 years
including a five-year grace period.



ANNEX A
-43 -                          Page I of 3
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Huangpu
1.  The Budgetary Estimate Table of Xiji Coal Quay Project of Huangpu New
Harbour. Fourth Design Institute, Ministry of Communications,
March 1981 (modified July 1981).
2.  The DetaiLed List of Machinery of Xiji Coal Quay Project of Huangpu
Port - Fourth Design Institute, Ministry of Communications, June
1981.
3.  Instruction for Xiji Coal Quay Project of the Huangpu Port. - Fourth
Design Institute, Ministry of Communications, June 1981.
4. The Main Technological Parameters of Xiji Coal Quay Project Equipment
of Huangpu Port. - Fourth Design Institute, Ministry of Communications,
June 1981.
5. Equipment Performance Specifications of Huangpu Container Terminal -
Appendix. - Fourth Design Institute, Ministry of Communications,
June 1981.
6. Huangpu Harbour Container Terminal the seventh and eighth berth of
new Port), Schedule of Equipments used Each Year. - Fourth Design
Institute, Ministry of Communications, June 1981.
7. The dynamic Consolidation Tests of the Container Area of the Second
Period Engineering of Huangpu Port. - Fourth Design Institute, Ministry
of Communications, February 1981.
8. The Calculation List of the Inner River Berth of Duntou Xiji Coal Quay.
- Fourth Design Institute, Ministry of Communications, February
1981.
9. The Connecting Project of the Fifth Five Year Plan of Huangpu New
Harbour, Hydraulic Structures (Brief introduction of the design). -
Fourth Design Institute, Ministry of Communications, February 1981.
10. Hydrological and Sediment Features and Fluvial Process of Huangpu
Navigation Channel. - Guangzhou Research Institute of Navigational
Channel Design, Ministry of Communications, undated.



ANNEX A
- 44 -                           Page 2 of 3
11. Dredging Situation in the Huangpu navigation channel. - Guangzhou
Research Institute of Navigational Channel Design, Ministry of
Communications, undated.
12. Port of Huangpu. - Huangpu Harbour Administration Bureau, Ministry
of Communications, October 1980, February 1981, July 1981.
13.  Xiji coal quay engineering of Huangpu Hiarbour. - Fourth Design Institute,
Ministry of Communications, June 1981.
Shanghai
1.  Loan Item List of Equipment Used for District No. 9 Container Terminal
of Shanghai Harbour. - Third Design Institute, Ministry of Communica-
tions July 10, 1981.
2. Design Material of container terminal, District No. 9, Port of
Shanghai." By the Third Design Institute, Ministry of Communications,
July 1981.
3. Equipment Type Specifications for the Container Terminal, District
No. 9, Port of Shanghai. - Third Design Institute, 2Iinistry of
Communications, February 1981.
4. Technical Data for the sea traffic channel of the Shanghai Harbour.-
Waterway Bureau, Shanghai, Ministry of Comaunications, February
1981.
5. Compaction Method of Yard Ground and Results of Tests. - Third
Design Institute, Ministry of Communications, February 1981.
6. Information of the Port of Shanghai.- Shanghai Harbour Administration
Bureau, November 1980, March 1981, July 1981.
7. Design specifications, Berth 1 and Berth 2 at the container terminal in
Zone 9, Shanghai Harbour. - Third Design Institute, Ministry of
Communications, July 1980.
8. Brief Introduction to the Nanjing Hydraulic Research Institute. Nanjing
Hydraulic Research Institute, July 1981.
9. The Yangtze Estuary, a Hydraulic Model Study, Including Improvement
Schemes and Model Tests. - Nanjing Hydraulic Research Institute, July
1981.



45 -                         ANNEX A
Page 3 of 3
Tianjin
1. Detailed List of Equipment, Container Terminal at Basin No. 4.-
Tianjin Harbour Administration Bureau, undated
2. The Test Pile Results of Basin No. 4.- First Design Institute, Ministry
of Communications, July 1981.
3. Revised General Layout Plan and Total Estimate and List of Imported
Equipment of the New Container Terminal at Basin No. 4, Port of Tianjin.-
First Design Institute, MDVC, July 1981.
4. Data for the World Bank Mission.- Tianjin Harbour Administration
Bureau, February 1981, July 1981
5. Tianjin New Harbour Dock No. 4, Initial Plans for the Container Wharf.-
First Design Institute, Ministry of Communications, July 1980.
6.  Revised PrelLminary Design of New Container Terminal at Basin No. 4,
Port of Tianjin, Vol. I, II, III and IV." First Design Institute,
Ministry of Communications, February 1981.
October 1981



- 46 -                           ANNEX B
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Reorganization of Port Cargo Handling Operations
1.        A tentative organization chart of a typical CHC is shown in the
Chart. The CHC manager will be directly responsible to the Waterway
Transport Bureau in MOC on cargo operational matters, and to the Planning
Bureau of MOC on budget and investment matters. All matters on development
planning and construction work before being referred to MOC must be reported
to HAB, which must endorse those CHC development projects, which have
effects beyond the CHC, as well as land acquisition. The various
organizational units under the CHC will have the general responsibilities
described below.
2.        The Manager's Office will provide secretariat services for the CHC
and liaison between CHC and outside agencies.
3.        The Dispatch Department will direct all cargo operations of the CHC,
including vessel arrival and departure, allocation of manpower and
equipment. The CHC Dispatch Divisions are coordinated by the Port Dispatch
Office in the NAB. The Dispatch Offices in the HABs are coordinated by the
Dispatch Office in the Water Transport Bureau of the MOC. Coordination
Meetings between port dispatch offices are held at MOC level monthly to
arrange monthly arrival/sailing schedules for each national port. Similar
coordination meetings between CHC Dispatch Offices are held regularly at HAB
level to arrange arrival/sailing schedules for each POD and CHC.
4.        The Business Department will be responsible for all cargo matters,
and liaison with shippers and consignees. It bills the shipowners and cargo
owners for berthing and cargo handling fees, but the actual payments will be
submitted to the financial division of the Comprehensive Department.
5.        The Comprehensive Department will be divided into four divisions:
(a) the Financial Division is responsible for financial planning
and budgeting and for daily receipts and expenditures;
(b) the Planning Division is responsible for planning of produc-
tion, capital construction, and maintenance, and for devel-
opment and control of the labor force;
(c) the Personnel Division is responsible for employment, train-
ing, testing of skills, payroll and bonuses; and



- 47 -                          ANNEX B
Page 2 of 3
(d) the Administration Division is responsible for general CHC
administrative matters and personnel welfare matters.
6.        The Technical Department will be responsible for:
(a) maintenance of installations, buildings, equipment and for
providing maintenance planning input to Planning Division for
incorporation in the overall CHC plan;
(b) specifications for new equipment and introduction of new
technology;
(c) establishment of skills standards for technical personnel;
and
(d) training and testing of technical personnel in coordination
with 'Personnel Division.
7.        The Operational Department will be divided into four teams:
(a) a cargo handling team, that is responsible for operations
between ship's hold and warehouse or storage area;
(b) a warehouse and storage team that is responsible for all
warehousing and storage functions, including container control in
container yard and CFS functions;
(c) a mechanical team that is responsible for drivers and equipment
operators, and maintenance workers; and
(d) a supply team that is responsible for materials supply, fuels,
and bunkers.
8.        The future HAB will be responsible for general port administration
and security, coordination of CHC development plans and other CHC activities
which have effects beyond the individual CHCs, and common port services,
such as port dredging and piloting. Common services will be covered by a
charge to be paid by each CHC to the HAB. The future HAB can carry out fact
finding studies on RAB and CHC costs and on that basis make recommendations
to MOC on harbor rates and tariffs. When approved by MOC, the HAB and the
CHC can charge such rates and tariffs.
9.        The future workshop corporations will be responsible for
providing maintenance and repair services to the CHCs and the HAB. The
workshop corporations would be independent legal entities similar to the
CHCs. Cost of services provided by the workshop corporations will be
covered by the CHCs and the HAB.



- 48 -                           ANNEX B
Page 3 of 3
10.       The performance targets currently being used for the PODs will
also be used for the CHCs.
(a) Physical targets are:
(i) total production expressed in tons handled;
(ii) quality of handling operations, expressed for general cargo
as maximum ratio of damaged cargo pieces over total number of
pieces handled, currently 0.005;
(iii) productivity of labor expressed as total production divided
by total labor input; and
(iv) ship turnaround time in port.
(b) Financial targets are:
(i) total profit calculated as total revenue minus total cost
minus tax and expressed in Yuan. Both revenue and cost
include nonport-related activities, if any; and
(ii) production unit cost reduction expressed both as an absolute
amount and as a ratio of current year's production unit cost
over the previous year's production unit cost, currently
about 2%. This target has ranged from 1-4% for MOC over the
past 5 years.



- 49 -                                ANNEX B
Chart
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Typical Cargo Handling Corporation After Reorganization
I     Ministry
of
Communications
Harbour                   Cargo        II Workshop
IAdministration               Handling           Corporations
Bureau     I            Corporation
I Manager
Deputy Manager
I 
I           I ~~~Manager's
____ ____ ____ ___ Office
ff ~           l                  I                I 
Dispatch   I I TCechnicalI   loperationall I Business  I  IComprehensivel
IDepartmentII Departmentl   IDepartmentI I DepartmentI  I DepartmentI
I  Team  I Jj~I             I                 I
_I~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ I   
s~~~~~  ~~~ Ia u             Plnnn         Fiac          Perg sone  ) Wdrknhop
Source: Mini isstrio of Commu  Dandlin     n      Dvnsions  Di
May 1982  Be                                                               I Divisionio
{_           ~ ~~~~~~I II              I   I         
I Handling  I   Team    IMandtrager    _   ea 
May~~~ ~ ~ ~ 1982aers






- 50 -                              Table 1
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Huangpu Port
Berth Details of Existing Port
Depth
Berth      alongside        Length
District        (no)           (m) (m)                      Type of cargo
(no)
1           1-7            -8           1,334       Ore and general cargo,
sulfur, coal
2            1             -12.5           920      Grain, bagged cargo,
2-5           -11                       fertilizers, timber,
general cargo, and
occasionally coal
Total         12                          2,254
Source: Huangpu Harbor Administration Bureau.
October 1981



- 51 -                                Table 2
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Huangpu Port
Warehouses and Stacking Yards
District                                Total area   Usable area  Capacity
(no)     Type of storage   Quantity    (sq m)          (sq m)       (tons)
1         Warehouse          12       62,300           /a        208,900
Yard                -      138,000          7i
Subtotal                200,300           /a
2         Warehouse            6      51,100           /a        197,800
Yard                        79,700           /a       (including
silo capacity)
Subtotal                130,800           /a
I + 2       Warehouse                  113,400           /a
Yard                       217,700           /a
Total                   331,100           /a
/a Not available.
Source: Huangpu Harbor Administration Bureau.
October 1981



- 52 -                              Table 3
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Shanghai Port
Berth Details of Existing Port
Depth
District        Berth     Length   alongside
(no)         (no)        (m)         (m)      Type of cargo
1           8          750       6-10      Salt, rubber and general cargo
2           5          969        9.5      Coal, grain and sugar
3           8          920        3-8      General cargo, passenger
4           4          689       9-10      Timber
5           7        1,120      8.5-9      Foreign trade general cargo
6           5          808       7-9       Coal and transhipment
7          11        1,389        8-10     Coal
8          10        1,754        9.2      Ore and fertilizers
9           6        1,079       9-10.5    Foreign trade general cargo
10           6        1,080     9.2-10.5   Foreign trade general cargo
11           1           93         3       Ore, construction material
12          10          832         5       Ore, construction material
Passenger       10         933         5       Passenger
Chankahan        4         343        12       Coal, ore, construction
(outside)                                         material
Total      95       12,759
Source: Shanghai Harbor Administration Bureau.
October 1981



Table 4
- 53 -
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Shanghai Port
Warehouses and Stacking Yards
Warehouses                            Yards
District        Total area      Productive area   Total area    Productive area
(no)            (sq m)              (sq m)          (sq m)            (sq m)
1              76,988           29,887            90,419            25,483
2              59,174           53,580           117,128           106,845
3              83,658           45,464            69,865            37,903
4              12,634             9,993           47,126            43,871
5             130,791           81,980            46,752            43,030
6              10,098            7,200           109,969            90,460
7              24,474           16,969           233,333           201,137
6             117,719           47,397           166,291            91,072
9              29,380           26,302            92,942            70,171
10              35,613           30,469            78,571             8,374
11              15,135            2,875            10,483                 /a
12              65,269            18,700            3,142            64,305
Chankahan           9,165             3,704          149,922                 /a
Passenger          28,880             8,238            4,073              3,132
Total        698,978          382,758         1,220,016                 /a
Capacity (tons)                     110,000                           1,310,000
/a Not available.
Source: Shanghai Harbor Administration Bureau.
October 1981



Table 5
- 54 -
C HINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Tianjin Port
Berth Details of Existing Port
Depth
District  Berth       alongside    Length
(no)    (no)           (m)          (m)         Type of cargo
Existing Berths
1        1-5            8         870         General cargo
1          6           10         201          Salt (under repair)
2        7-8           10         360          General cargo
2        9-11          10         535          General cargo
2      12-13           12         500          Bulk grain
2      14-15           10         380          General cargo
3      16-18           10         550          General cargo (17 and 18
temporarily used for salt)
Subtotal                3,396
Berths Under Construction
19-20          11          370         Pig iron, steel, general cargo
containers
21.         12.5       397
22-24          11          530
25-26          11          440
27-29           13         895         Containers
Subtotal                2,632
Total .                 6,028
Source: Tianjin Harbor Administration Bureau.
October 1981



55                                  Table 6
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Tianjin Port
Warehouses and Sakn   ad
District        Type of                     Total area   Usable area    Capacity
(no)          storage         Quantity    (sq m)            (sq m)        (tons)
1           Warehouse            9          23,203         15,371        11,205
Yard               17         140,812         73,896       102,223
Subtotal        26          164,015        89,267        113,428
2            Warehouse          18          67,389         46,591        28,532
Yard               31         195,458         97,914       100,013
Subtotal        49          262,847       144,505        128,550
5            Warehouse           -
Yard                3          14,624         10,384        12,000/a
Subtotal         3           14,624        10,384         12,000/a
1 + 2 + 5      Warehouse          27          90,592         61,962        34,737
Yard               51         350,894       182,194        214,236
Total           78          441,486       244,156        253,973
/a Estimated.
Source: Tianjin Harbor Administration Bureau.
October 1981



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Ship Tine Analysis for HEuangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin Ports 1980 /a
(Ship days)
THuangpu                         Shanghai /b                     Tianjin /h
General      Con-              General      Con-                  General   Con-
Coal  cargo /b  tainer /b  Total  cargo /c  tainer /c  Total /d   cargo   tainer  Total
Number of ships               112     251          46      1,021      410         89       2,061         859       58   1,383
Total Time in Port -
All Ships
Waiting for berth         63      632         21      1,960      939          84       2,938      2,878        71   4,472
Unproductive time
at berth                99      818         11      2,433   1,507          100       7,048      1,726       81   2,486
Productive time at
berth                  296   1,310          14      4,294   1,283          113       7,905      2,738       63   4,181            ,
Total               458   2,760          46      8,687   3,729         297      17,891       7,342      215  11,139
Average Time in Port -
Per Ship
Waiting for berth       0.56    2.52        0.''        1. 2    2.29       0.94         1.43       3.35    1.22    3.23
Unproductive tine
at berth              0.88    3.26        0.24       2.38    5.67        1.12         3.42       2.01     1.40     1.80
Productive tine at
berth                 2.64    4.82        0.30       4.21    3.13        1.27         3.84       3.19     1.09    3.02
Total              4.08   10.60        1.00 /e   8.51    9.10         3.33         8.68       8.55    3.71    8.05
/a  Actual ship days.
/b  Foreign trade only.
/c  July-December 1980.
7W  January-Decermber 1980
/e  At present, container vessels calling at Hluangpii are small, 1,000 tons only.                                                      H
Source:  EHuangpu, Shanghai, and Tianjin Ilarhor Administration Bureaus and Bank staff.
November 1981



57                    ~~~~~~Table 8
Page I of 2
CIIINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Existing Principal Port Charges at Huangpu, Sha,nghai and Tianjin Ports
A.  Chas  ainst Vessels (Y)
Opening
and     General cargo
Mooring at   Harbor  Berthing at   closing            dues
Pilotage  Buoy  Wharf   dues   Buoy  Wharf   hatches  Inward  Outward
/b
Foreign      0.20/a   120    80      0.25   0.02  0.02       200       3.00      0.10
per     per   per        per    per   per      per        per       per
(exceeding)  nrt    ship   ship       nrt    nrt   nrt       ship       ton       ton
2000 NRT)                                      per day
Local        0.10    nil    nil       0.10   0.02  0.05        10       1.50     0.10
per                      per    per   per      per        ner       Dcr
nrt                     nrt    nrt   nrt    hatch         ton       ton
per day
/a  Shanghai rate is-Y 0.30 per nrt.
/b  The change increases to Y 0.10 nrt per day in cases where a vessel remains
at berth four or more hours after completing loading/unloading.
B.  Loading/Unloading Charges Against Cargo - Foreign (Y/ton)
Between Ship and Storage       Between Ship and Ship side
Cargo Type               Ship gear    Port gear         Ship gear       Port gear
Dangerous                 16.0           18.40            8.00             10.40
Coal (bulk)                6.40           7.40            3.20              4.20
Cement (bags)             12.00          13.80            6.00              7.80
Steel                     10.40          12.00            5.20             6.80
Timber                     9.20          10.60            4.60              6.00
General                   13.20          15.20            6.60              8.60



Table 8
- 58 -                           Page 2 of 2
C. Loading/Unloading Charges Against Cargo - Local (Y/ton)
Ship to   Ship to    To storage  To storage
Cargo Type          shore    lighter    and train    and truck
Dangerous             2.40       2.20         1.20          0.90
Coal (bulk)           1.20       1.10         0.70          0.50
Cement (bags)         1.20       1.10         0.70          0.50
Steel                 1.60       1.40         0.80          0.70
Timber                1.60       1.40         0.90          0.80
General               1.60       1.40         0.90          0.80
D. Storage Charges Against Cargo - Foreign and Local (Y/ton-day)/c
Free          Foreign               Local
storage    General  Light       General   Light
Direction    period        cargo   cargo       cargo    cargo    Dangerous
Inward         4 days       0.25    0.30        0.10    0.15         0.30
Outward        1 day        0.05    0.10        0.02    0.05         0.10
/c From expiration of free storage period.
Source: Nilnistry of Communications.
October 1981



59
Table 9
CGHifNA
TIUL THRE h PORTS PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimate
Y thousand                  US$ thousand
Item                                          Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works
Hiuangu Coal Terarinal
Qucywoll an.l cuveilteriwt                14,233          -   14,233    8,133
Reclamatloa, lovolling & dredgig            9,300         -    9,300    5,314          -    8,133
Auxi.liary bu:tlding                        4,244         -    4,244    2,425           -    5,314
Rail and highway bridges                    4,568         -    4,568    2,610           -    2,425
Environmenital. protection                  1,382         -    1,382        790         -    2,610
Yard and road pavement                      2,376         -    2,376    1,358           -       790
Others                                     16,817         -   16,817    9,610          -    1,358
Design and supervision /a                   1,588         -    1,588        907         -    9,610
-       907
Subtotal                             54,508         -   54,508   31,147
-   31,147
Huangpu Container Terminal
Construction                              76,560          -   76,560   43,639          -   43,639
Design and supervision 3%                   2,297         -    2,297    1,309          -    1,309
Subtotal                             78,857         -   78,857   44,948           -   44,948
Shanghai Container Terminal
Construction of quays                      9,644          -    9,644    5,511          -    5,511
Yard and road pavement                     11,8?7             11.897    6,798           -    6,798
Reclamation                                 6,929         --   6,929    3,958          -    3,958
CFS                                         1,746         -    1,746       998         -       998
Auxiliary                                   2,905         -    2,905    1,660          -    1,660
Transfer station                            6,776         -    6,776    3,872          -    3,872
Others                                    30,154          -   30,154   17,232          -   17,232
Design and supervision /a                   2,101         -    2,101    1,201          -    1,201
Subtotal                             72,152         -   72,152   41,230           -   41,230
Tianjin Container Terminal
Dredging                                  58,160          -   58,160   33,230          -   33,230
Container wharf                           18,810          -   18,810   10,750          -   10,750
Earth backfill                              3,340         -    3,340    1,910          -    1,910
Yard & road pavement                       38,870         -   38,870   22,310          -   22,310
Railroad                                      790         -       790      450         -       450
Raid & road CFS                            3,390          -    3,390    1,940          -    1,940
Auxiliary buildings                        9,170          -    9,170    5,240          -    5,240
Service cars & boats                         980         -       980       560         -       560
Others                                    58,010          -   58,010   33,050          -   33,050
Design & supervision ia                     5,746         -    5,746    3,280          -    3,280
Subtotal                            197,266         -  197,266  112,720           -  112,720
Total - Civil Works /b              402,783         -  402,783  230,045           -  230,045
Equpmen~t
Huangpu Coal Terminal.
4 Level luffing cranes                        1,120   12,880   14,000        640    7,360    8,000
4 Stacker-reclaimers                            998   11,602   12,600        570    6,630    7,200
3 Ship loaders (1,000, 500, 500)                262    3,203    3,465         150    1,830    1,980
Conveyors                                   1,312   14,945   16,257        750    8,540    9,290
Others                                         53    1,129    1,182          30      645       675
Electrical equipment & coraputer                -    4,081    4,081           -    2,332    2,332
Spare parts 15%                                 -    7,128    7,128          -    4,073    4,073
Subtotal                              3,745   54,968   58,713    2,140   31,410   33,550



- 60 -                                     Table 9
Page 2 of 2
Y thousand                   US$ thousand
Item                                           Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Equipment (cont'd)
Huangpu Container Terminal
1 Quay crane (40.5 t)                            420    4,830      5,250        240    2,760      3,000
3 Transtainers                                   357    4,106    4,463          204     2,346     2,550
8 Forklift trucks                                  -       210        210         -       120       120
(to be purchased outside loan)
12 Tractor                                           -       840       840         -       480       480
36 Chassis                                           -       945       945         -       540       540
Others                                           5       623       628          3       356       359
Computer                                         -       175       175          -       100       100
Spare parts 15%                                  -    1,762      1,762          -    1,007      1,007
Subtotal                                 782   13,491   14,273          447    7,709    8,156
Shanghai Container Terminal
4 Quay cranes (40.5 t)                         1,680   19,320   21,000          960   11,040   12,000
9 Transtainers                                 1,071    12,317   13,388         612    7,038      7,650
2 Forklift trucks (25 t)                           -        700       700         -       400       400
4 Forklift trucks (16 t)                           -       700        700         -       400       400
60 Forklift trucks (2.5 t)                          -    1,575      1,575          -       900       900
33 Tractors                                          -    2,310    2,310           -    1,320      1,320
55 Chassis                                          -    1,444      1,444          -       825       825
Others and computer                            193    2,719      2,912        110    1,554      1,664
Spare parts 15%                                  -    6,163      6,163          -    3,522      3,522
Subtotal                               2,944   47,248   50,192        1,682   26,999   28,681
Tianjin Container Terminal
5 Quay cranes (40.5 t)                         2,170   24,150   26,320       1,240   13,800    15,000
11 Transtainers                                 1,309    15,054    16,363        748    8,602      9,350
2 Forklift trucks (25 t)                           -       700        700         -       400       400
4 Forklift trucks (16 t)                           -        700       700         -       400       400
35 Forklift truclks (2-2.5 t)                        -       919       919         -       525       525
30 Tractors                                          -    2,100      2,100         -    1,200      1,200
100 Chassis                                           -    2,625      2,625         -    1,500      1,500
Others and computer                            207    3,337      3,544        118    1,907      2,065
Spare parts 15%                                  -    7,438      7,438          -    4,250      4,250
Subtotal                               3,686   57,023   60,709        2,106   32,584    34,690
Total - Equipment                     11,157  172,730  183,887        6,375   98,702  105,077
Training                                            2,625     2,625     5,250     1,500     1,500      3,000
Containerization Stuidy                             3,500         -    3,500    2,000            -    2,000
Subtotal                               6,125    2,625      8,750    3,500       1,500     5,000
Customs Duties                                    27,683          -   27,683   15,819            -   15,819
Total Base Cost                      447,748  175,355  623,103  255,739  100,202  355,941
Physical contingencies Ic                         35,277          -   35,277   20,149            -   20,149
Price contingencies                               45,536   44,272   89,808   26,026   25,298   51,324
Subtotal                              80,813   44,272  125,085   46,175   25,298   71,473
GRAND TOTAL                          528,561  219,627  748,188  301,914  125,500  427,414
/a  Design and supervision estimated at 3% of construction.
/b  Indirect foreign exchange costs of civil works are mainly for materials and plant and amount
to an estimated 30% of total cost of civil works for the three ports.
/c  Physical contingencies estimated at 10% of base cost except for the container terminal at
Huangpu, for which it is estimated at 5% since the structure is almost finished.
Source: Ministry of Communications and Bank staff.



- 61 -
Table 10
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Cumulative Disbursement Schedule
(US$'000 equivalent)
Cumulative
disbursement
profile /a
Bank-wite
Cumulative Disbursements at End of Quarter                 subsector
Years    IBRD fiscal             Huangpu           Shanghai   Tianjin                        for ports &
from        year and        Coal      Container  container  container                         waterways
approval    quarter         terminal   terminal   terminal   terminal    Total    x              (%)
1983/84
1  lst half    09/30/83           -           -            -           -          -    -         -
12/31/83     1,440          360       1,180       1,520      4,500    3.6       0.9
1  2nd half    03/31/84    4,680          1,170       3,860        4,790     14,500   11.7       -
06/30/84    7,920         1,980       6,530       8,070    24,500   19.8        6.2
1984/85
2  1st half    09/30/84    9,840          2,460       8,120       10,080    30,500   24.6        -
12/31/84   13,100        3,300       10,890      13,210    40,500   33.0    14.2
2  2nd half    03/31/85   16,280          4,070       13,430      16,720    50,500   40.7        -
06/30/85    19,520       4,880       16,100      20,000    60,500   48.8    24.0
1985/86
3  1st half    09/30/85   23,040          5,760      19,000       23,700    71,500   57.6        -
12/31/85   26.`0u        (6,6S       21,950      27,300    82.5,      ;         ...
3  2nd half    03/31/86   30,160          7,540      24,880       30,920    93,500   75.4        -
06/30/86   33,880        8,470       27,950      34,700   105,000   84.7    46.5
1986/87
4  1st half    09/30/86   37,200          9,300      37,550       38,130   117,180   93.0        -
12/31/86   40,000       10,000      35,000       41,000   124,000  100.0    57.5
4  2nd half                       -            -           -           -          -    -         -
67.6
5  Ist half                                                                       -    -        76.2
5  2nd half                       -           -            -           -          -    -        83.4
6  Ist half                       -           -            -           -          -    -        89.1
6  2nd half                       -           --                       -          -    -        93.7
7  Ist half                       -           -            -           -          -    -        97.3
7  2nd half                       -           -            -           -          -    -       100.0
/a  All 75 projects in the profile contain Bank financing of equipment as well as civil
works.  This project only covers equipment which is more rapidly disbursed, and civil
works started in 1979.
Source: Bank staff.
September 1982



- 62 -                               Table 11
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Operating Manpower Requirement for Project Berths
Number required
Huangpu            Shanghai       Tianjin
Coal      Container    Container    Container
Manpower category                  terminal    terminal       terminal      terminal
Stevedores (loading/unloading)       134            351           473           612
Drivers                               90            128           351           378
Maintenance and repair                62            125           128           272
Management and administration         76            299           224           130
Ancillary staff                       65            197            96            97
Subtotal                        427          1,100         1,272         1,489
Total Container                                                          3,861
GRA4D TOTAL                                                              4,288
Source:  Minist-ry of Communications.
October 1981



.63  _                                Table 12
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
operating Manpower Training Plan for Project Container Terminals /a
Description
La ~ r-_lor    .  vrseas  r 1
Group 1                                    Cot ainer terininal management personnel
15 porsons fromi Shanghai and 12
persons from Huangpu, training for
3 months in Japan or other places.
Group 2                                    Heavy machinery drivers and maintenance
personnel
8 persons from Shanghai, 12 persons
from Tianjin, and 4 persons from
Huangpu, training will be arranged
free of charge by equipment supplier.
Group 3                                  - Computer process design and operation
personnel
8 persons from Shanghai, 8 persons
from Tianjin, and 4 persons from
Huangpu training for 6-12 months
abroad.
Category 2 - Local Training
Shanghai Maritime Institute              - Management personnel
Container port managem.ent                 3 semesters, 6 months each
about 35 persons each semester.
Water transport management            - Engineers
department                              Major in computers, one year
study period.
Harbor Technician School                 - Crane drivers and maintenance personnel
Classes of 20-30 or more persons for 6
months each.
Another class will be arranged for
English language training for container
operations (30 persons for 3 months for
each port).
Invite foreign and chinese experts   - On-site staff training in circulation
of bills, management of container
yard and operation.
- Short-term courses on specific subjects
pertaining to container terminal
operation.
Category 3 - Training for Coal Terminal
Group 1                                 - Technical operators.
The equipment supplier will arrange
training for personnel who will be
operating the terminal.
Group 2                                  - On-the-job training at other terminals
in China.
/a The training plan is expected to take 2-3 years, starting in October 1982,
before which date, the detailed plan will be worked out.
Source: Ministry of Conmunications.
September 1982



_ 64 _                                                                  Table 13
CHINA
TILE T1R3F. PORTS PROJECT
iluangpu Port Traffic, 1975-95
( 000 toils)
Actg.:l                                                             Forecsta
-1 T 6   7   _  _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _                    -_                                       -       i943-
Como,olity                    To       0ut    Total      In       0Out    Total    In         Ott t    ot al    In        OLt    Total    In         0ut    Total
Coal
Foreign                     515         4      519      197       15      212       200      250      450      300      800   1,100        300      B500   1,10
DuI.estlc                 1,08       862   1,942       812      712   1,524   1,550    1,2011    2,750    3,00    1, 750   4,750    3,500    2,OO   5,500
Tot.al                    1,595      866   2,461    1,009        727   1,736    1,750    1,450   3,200   3 300   2 550   5,R50   3,800    2,800    6,900
Petrnoeubu L,roducts
Foreign                        -       98       98        -      15,     156         -      200      200      500       350      850      500      800   1,300
Domestic                    456       175      631   2,324       2285   2,552   2,900        100   3,000    3,50n        300   3,800   4,200        400   4.6nn
Total                       456       273      7229   2,324      384   2,708    2,900        300   3,200)   4,000        4 50   4,6951    4,700    1,20('   5,90o
'iAeral ore
Foreign                       18       12       30        -        8         8        -        -        -             -         -        -        -        -
Domestic                    58o         6      59       71o        -      716   1,000          -   1,000    2,000C         -   2,0O0    2 000          -   2,000
sotal                       bO4        18      622      716        8      724   I,00           -   1 ,000    2,000         -   2,000    2,001        -   2,0no
Iro,n and steel
Foreign                     441        54      5l)3     632       28      660       350      100      450      500       200      700      700 540    1, 100
DoUOsLltl.                     2       33       35      10Y       57      166       150       50      200      250       100      350      350      190       500
.oLa 1                      4i        8d7      538      741       85      82f,      500      150      650      750      30(0   1.090   I,017        590    1,600
4000 ItOrut 6w, nasturio,l.
Foreigi1                                                                                                                                            60I      600
iOt,Cst1i                   185         6  1 91          81 Hr             86        50        -       5S        -         _ _             700        -       700
'o tal                      16S         7      192         66      -       So        50        -       50        -         -        -      700      60n   1300
(;er.o 0 L
vore,,Ll                     1         79       69       9D       21      111       100      20n      300)       -      650      680         -      7 0      7no
2ou LStic                      -       1.1      13        3       6 5       68        -       5()    50        500       101      600      600     200 1O5o
To tal                        10       92      102       913      16      179       100      250      350      5D0       750   1,290       600      900   1,500
Tt,nber
Foreig,t                     14         2       16       41        -       41       10o       40      140      101        511     1511     1011      51      1950
Dol, stir                     18        a       26       17       16       35        20        -       20       20         -       20       20                  n 20
Total                         32       1C       42       58       18       76       120       40      160      120        10      170      121       50       170
Nonmetallic ores
Forei,n                      26       14'      171        -      18      138         -      350      350         -      800      800        -      100      10n
o;laestic                     20       31       53      135         2     137       540      351)     890   2,400    1,7 01   4,100   2,70n   2,000   4,700
Total                         46     176       224      135      190      325      5440      700   1,240   2,400   2, 500   4,900   2,700   2,1R00   5 ,500
Chenical fertilizers
Forei,n                     322        1.    323        727        -      721       b.0        -      800      800         -       00C  1,000         -   1,(){0
Do,aestic                      -      12).     121        1      449      450         -      500      500        -       6110     600        -      900      900
Total                       322       122      444      728      449   1,177        800      5711   1,300      800       600   1,400    1,000       900   1,100
Salt
Foreign                        -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -        -
)olaestie                    18       58      236      119        13      132      150       50      200      2511       50      300      430      100       530
intal                       180        53      238      119        13      132      1511      50      200       250       50      3001    430       1011      530
Crain
Foreiabn                    276       249      527      765      373   1,138   1,000         400   1,400   1,000         400   1,400    1,000       700    1,700
Do,lestic                     14       87      103      145      418       563      150      600      750       150      600      750      300      60n       900
Total                       294       33'S     630      910      791    1,701    1,150   1,000   2,150    1,190    1,000   2,150    1,300    1,300    2,600
Others
Foreign                     303       412      715   1,074       609   1,679   1,16(         96u   2,120    1,200    1,060   2,260    1,600   1,400    3,000
Doiaestic                    145       98      243      285      471      756       450      480      930      420       600   1,020       700      700   1,400
Total                       448       510      958   1,355    1,000   2,435   1,610    1,440   3,050   1,620   1,660   3,280   2,3O0    2,0on   4,400
Total
Foreign                   1 ,935    1,056   2,991    3,522    1,398   4,920    3,7111   2,500   6,210   4,400   4,31n   8,710    5,200    6,250  11,450
Do-estio                  2,b83    1,501   4,149    4,752   2,433    7,185   6,960   3,380  10,340  12,490   5,800  15,290  15.500   7,050  22,550
Total                 4,623    2,557    7,180   8,274   3,831  12,105  10,670   5,PF80  16,550  16,89n  10,113  27,C00   20,700  13,300  34,000
lontainerizable cargo
Foreign                     177       1 54     335      458      363      821       550      339      888      606       455   1,061       727      541    1,26R
DomesLic                      42       61      1053     19         30      139      130      131      262       144      175      319      173       209      3812
Totao                        219      219      438      567      393       960      68(1     470   1,150       750       630   1,380       900      750   1,650
Contaf-ri.eed cargo
Foreign                        -                 - -     33        26       59     5228      172      400      440       360      300      580      420    1,000
Dotnestic                      -        -        -                                                  -                 -         -                      -
'tUtal                         -        -        -       33        26       59      228      172      400      440       360      100      580      420   1,000
Sourcr  .-loang9 p 8 arbo8r Adr;ni ae.iu  13oreno a,,d  aflose6taff.
,Jotober 1961



_ 65 -                                                                  Table 1'
CffINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Shanghai Port Traffic, 1975-95
(OOO tons)
Actual                                                         Forecast
1975                     1980                      1985                      1990                      1995 
Commodity                  In       Out    Total    In        Out    Total    In        Out    Total    In        Out    Torll   In        Out    Total
Coal
foreign                    63        -      63       53        -      53        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -
Domestic               14,072   6,229  20.301  19,344   9,231  28,575  27,950   9,200  37,150  35,000  10,000  45,000  37,000  11,000  48,000
Total            p     14,135   6,229  20,364  19,397   9,231  28,629  27,950   9,200  37,150  35,000  10,000  45,000  37,000  11,000  48,000
Petrcleun- products
Foreign                     -      277     277       61      929     990        -   1,000   1,000)        -   1,200   1,200         -   1,200   1,200
Doi,estic               1,839   1,134   9,953   9,580        881  10,461  11,200   1,150  12,350  12,000   1,400  13,400  12,000   1,400  13,400
Total                   8,839   1,391  10,230   9,641   1,810  11,451  11,200   2,150  13,350  12,000   2,600  14,600  12,000   2,600  14,600
iineral ore
Foreign                 1,131        -   1,131   3,977         9   3,986   4,200         -   4,200   5,000         -   5,000   5,000        -   5,000
Domestic                  645   1,002   1,647   1,284   4,587   5,871   1,300            -   1,300   1,500         -   1,900   1,500        -   1,S50
Total                   1,776   1 002   2,778   5,261   4,59f   9,857   5,500            -   5,500   6,500         -   6,500   6,500        -   6,500
tron and steel
Foreign                 1,659      103   1,762   1,593       162   1,755   1,950      SOO   2,450   2,000       700   2,700   2,100   1,000   3,100
Uomestic                2,774      521   3,295   3,292       966   4,258   3,000   1,550   4,550   3,300   1,900   5,200   3 500   2,1G0   5,600
Iotel                   4,433      624   5,057   4,885   1,128   6,013   4,950   2,050   7,0O0   5,300   2,600   7.900   5,600   3,100   8,701
ionstructior.l materials
Foreigen                    3       12       15       -       12      12        -       50      50        -     102      10 1       -     150      150
Donestic                2,283      473   2,756   4,941       704   5,645   7,100   1,350   8,450   9,20f'  1,601  in,800  11,000   1,850  1?,850
lotal                   2,286      485   2,771   4,941       716   5,657   7,100   1,400   8,500   9,200   1,700  10,900  11,000   2,000  13,000
Ceo.eat
Foreig-n                  183      204      387     305      331     636      400      130     530      5(0     20G      700      550     300      85(
Domestic                   83      !l8     201       97      154     251      300      370     670      500     5(f)  1,O0o    550        700   1, 250
Total                     266      322      58d     402      435     887      700      500   1,200   1,300      700   1,100   6,100   1,000u  2,100
Ti..er
Forei6n                    54        8      b2      821        2     823      600      50      650      805      50      850   1, 010     50   i,050
O)un e sic               0bn7       98      905     774      408   1,182      320      330   1,150      950      500   1,450   1,200      650'  1,850
Total                     861      106      967   1,595      410   2,005   1,420       380   1,800   1,750       550   2,300   2,200      70C   2,900
Nonmetallic ores
Foreign                   131      104      287     320      320     648      150     300      450      203     400      f.00l    300     550      850
Donoestic                 598      351     949   1,074       660   1,734   3,200      400   3,600   3,550       550   4,100   4,800       750   5,550
Total                     779      457   1,236   1, 394      988   2,382   3,350      700   4,050   3 750       951   4,700   5,100   1,300   6,400
chemical fertilizers
Foreign                   794        1     795   1,451         -   1,451   1,250         -   1,250   1,500        -   1,500   2,000         -   7,0on
Do-estic                    8      573     581       32      991   1,023        -      750     750        -     900      500        -   1,000   1,000
Total                     802      574   1,376   1,483       991   2,474   1,250      750   2,000   1,500       900   2,400   2,000   1,000   3 000
Salt
Foreign                     -        1        1       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -
Domestic                1,112      590   1,702   1,117       460   1,577   1,300      400   1,700   1,500       500   2,000   2,00o    600   2,600
Total                   1,112      591   1,703   1,117       460   1,577   1,300      400   1,700   1,500       500   2,000   2,000       600   2 600
Grain
Foreign                 1,144      895   2,039   2,258       611   2,869   2,450       700   3,150   4,000      707   4,700   4,500   1,000   5,500
Domestic                  952      541   1,493   1,307   1,618   2,925   1,050   1,500   2,550   1,300   2,100   3,400   1,800   2,500   4,300
Total                   2,096   1,436   3,532   3,565   2,229   5,794   3,500   2,200   5,700   5,300   2,800   8,100   6,300   3,500   9,800
Others
Foreign                 1,383   1,125   2,508   2,757   1,929   4,686   3,900   4,270   8,170   5,000   5,650  10,650   6,050   6,550  12,600
tsmsestic               1,417   1,273   2,690   1,563   1,854   3,417   3,250   3,630   6,880   4,200   4,050   8,250   5,050   4,050   a,8300
Total                   2,800   2,398   5,198   4,320   3,783   8,103   7,150   7,900  15,050   9,200   9,700  18 900  11,100  11,300  22,400
Total
Foreign                 6,595   2,732   9 327  13,596   4,313  17,909  14,900   7,000  21,900  19,000   9,000  28,000  21,500  10,800  32,300
Domestic               33,590  12,883  46,473  44,405  22 514  66,919  60,470  20,630  81,100  73,000  24,000  97.000  80,400  27,300 107,700
Total               40,185  15,615  55,800  58,001  26,827  84,828  75,370  27,630 103,000  92,000  33,000 125,000 101,900  38,100 140,000
Containerizable cargo
Foreign                   700      850   1,550   1,418   1,797   3,215   2,000   3,000   5,000   2,500   4,000   6,500   3,000   4,600   7,600
Domestic                  850      800   1,650      950   1,200   2,150   1,950   2,350   4,300   2,500   2,600   5,100   3,000   3,100   6,100
Total                   1,550   1,650   3,200   2,368   2,997   5,365   3,950   5,350   9,300   5,000   6,600  11,600   6,000   7,700  13,700
Containerized cargo
Foreign                     -        -        -     103      141     244      520      780   1,300   2,300   3,700   6,000   2,700   4,300   7,000
Dosiestic
Total                                -        -     103      141     244      520     780   1,300   2,300   3,700   6,000   2,700   4,300   7,000
Source:  Shanghai Harbor Administration Boreau and Bank staff.
October, 1981



- 66 -                                                                        Table 15
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Tianjin Port Traffic, 1975-95
('000 tons)
Actual                                                                Forecast
-________3                                8                         19B5                         1990       '                 1995
Commodity                      In       Out     Totelt    In         Out     Total      In        Out     Total      In       Out      Total      In       Out    Total
pvett                                              =                  -                  =      400       400         -    1,000    1,000          -   1,000    1,000
Domestct t o                                       1        =         2         2
TQtIit I                                           I                  2         2        -      400       400         -   1,000    1,000           -    1,000    1,000
Petroleum products
Foreign                         -       76        76         1      255      256         -      300       300         -      600       600         -      540       540
Dome tir                     424        70       494      353        17      370       450       100      550       520      130       650       680      ISO       860
Total                        424       146       570      354       272      626       450       400      650       520      730    1,250        680      720    1,400
Mineral ore
Foreign                         4        -         4       22         1        23       20         -       20        20        10       30        30        20       50
Domestic                        -           -               -         -         -        -              -        -              -        -         -         -        -
Total                           4        -         4       22         1        23       20         -       20        20        10       30        30       20        50
Iron and steel
Foreign                    1,290        84    1,374    1,156        173    1,329    1,160       270    1,430    1,540        360    1,900    1,550        400    1,950
Domestic                       97      172       269         1      298      299        10      400       410        50      500       550        50      500       550
Total                      1,290       256    1,546    1,157        471    1,628    1,170       670    1,840    1,590        860    2,450    1,600        900   2,500
Construction materials
Foreign                         -       26        26        -        37       37         -        50       50         -       60        60         -      100       100
Domestic                     683         -      683       365        12      377       700         -      700    1,100          -   1,100    1,400          -   1,400
Total                        683        26      709       365        49      414       700        50      750    1,100        60    1,160    1,400        100    1,500
Cement
Foreign                        43        -        43      275         -      275       400         -      400       440         -      440       450        -       450
Domestic                        -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -
Total                          43        -        43      275         -      275       400         -      400       440         -      440      450         -       450
Timber
Foreign                         3        1         4       89         2       91       400         -      400       670       30       700       750       50       800
Domestic                        -         -        -         1        -         1        -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -
Total                           3        1         4       90         2        92      400         -      400       670       30       700       750       50       800
Nonmetallic ores
Foreign                        60        5        65       82       375      457       100      420       520       100      600       700       100      800       900
Domestic                        -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -        -       100        -       100      100         -       100
Total                          60        5        65       82       375      457       100      420       520       200      600       800      200       800    1,000
Chemical fertilizers
Foreign                       383        -       383      484         -      484       470         -      470       500         -      500       500         -      500
Domestic                        -        -         -         -       12        12             -         -        -         -         -        -              -        -
Total                         383        -       383      484        12      496       470         -      470       500         -      500       500         -      500
Salt
Foreign                         -      472       472        -       704      704         -   1,000    1,000           -   1,400    1,400           -   1,500    1,500
Domestic                      306    1,225    1,531       682       607    1,289       800      700    1,500        900      900    1,800    1,000    1,000    2,000
Total                         306    1,697    2,003       682    1,311    1,993        800    1,700    2,500        900    2,300    3,200    1,000    2,500    3,500
Grain
Foreign                       808       93       901    2,523        89    2,612    3,100        100    3,200    3,500       150   3,650    3,500         200   3,700
Domestic                        -         6        6         -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -
Total                         808       99       907    2,523        89    2,612    3,100        100    3,200    3,500       150    3,650    3,500        200    3,700
Others
Foreign                    1,031       680    1,711    1,715    1,315    3,030    2,500    2,100    4,600    3,520    3,110    6,630    4,750    4,350    9,100
Domestic                       72      150       222      239        34      273       250        50      300       400      190       590       500      300       800
Total                      1,103       830    1,933    1,954    1,349    3,303    2,750    2,150    4,900    3,920    3,300    7,220    5,250    4,650    9,900
Total
Foreign                    3,622    1,437    5,059    6,347    2,951    9,298    8,150    4,640   12,790   10,290    7,320   17,610   11,630    8,960  20,590
Domestic                   1,582    1,624    3,206    1,641         982    2,623    2,210    1,250    3,460    3,070    1,720    4,790    3,730    1,980    5,710
Total                   5,204    3,061    8,265    7,988    3,933   11,921   10,360    5,890   16,250   13,360    9,040   22,400   15,360   10,940   26,300
Containerizable cargo
Foreign                       625      573    1,198    1,039    1,110    2,149    1,650    1,450    3,100    2,450    2,150    4,600    2,700    2,450    5,150
Domestic                       72      150       222      116        34      150       250        50      300       200      100       300       250      150       400
Total                         697      723    1,420    1,155    1,144    2,299    1,900    1,500    3,400    2,650    2,250    4,900    2,950    2,600    5,550
Containerized cargo
Foreign                         -         -        -        66       72       138    1,000       850    1,850    2,050    1,760    3,810    2,000    2,000    4,000
Domestic
Total                           -        -         -        66       72       138    1,000       850    1,850    2,050    1,760    3,810    2,000    2,000    4,000
Source:  Tianjin Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank staff.
October 1981



Table 16
_ 67 _
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Intermodal Transfer of Cargo in Htuangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin Ports, 1980
('000 tons)
Huangpu                                        Shanghai                                        Tianjin
Commodity                   Foreign  Coast    River   Rail   Road  Foreign  Coast  River   Rail   Road   Lighter   Foreign  Coast  River   Rail   Road
Coal
In                            200      810         -      10        -       53  13,596    5 ,750        -        -        -
Out                            10      200       590     220        -        -   2,028    7,203  1,141    3,525    5,500             -        -       -       -       -
Total                         210   1,010        590    230         -       53  15,624  12,953  1,141    3,525    5,500
Petroleum products
In                              -   2,320/a        -       -        -       61   7,964    1,616        -         -      641          1      353       -      67
Out                           170      160       210        -       -      929      706      177        -        -   8,470        255        17    147        -       -
Total                         170   2,480        210        -       -      990   8,670    1,793         -        -   9,111        256       370     147      67
Mineral ore
In                              -      720        10       -        -   3,977    1,263        21       -         -        -        22         -       -       -
Out                            10        -          -    720        -        9      969    3,618        2      513      150          1        -       -      22       -
Total                          10      720         10    720        -   3,986    2,232    3,639         2      513      150         23        -       -      22        1
Iron and steel
In                           632       109        13      15       -   1,593    1,556    1,736          -     113        80     1,155         1       -    349      123
Out                            28       29        47     495     170       162      132      834     503    1,947    1,500        174       298       -  1,156        -
Total                         660      138        60     510     170   1,755    1,688    2,570       503   2,060    1,580       1,329       299       -  1,505      123
Construction materials
In                              -        -        86       -        -        -   2,965    1,976         -     280       286          -     365        -      49       -
Out                             -        -         -        -     86        12       14      690        -   2,791    2,000         37        12       -       -    102
Total                           -        -        86        -      86       12   2,979    2,666         -   3,071    2,286         37       377       -      49     102
Cement
In                             90        -         -      50       -      305         5       92     302       68         -       275         -       -       -       -
Out                            20       20        60      10       30      331       49      105        1      186      100         -         -       -       -    275
Total                         110       20        60      60       30      636       54      197     303      254       100       275         -       -       -    275
Timber
In                             41       11         6       -       -      821       724       50       -         -        -        89         1       -       2       -
Out                             -       11        47       -        -        2       72      336     258      327       600         2         -       -      36      54
Total                          41       22        53       -               823      796      386     258      327       600        91         1       -      83      54
Nonmetaillic ores
In                              -        -       180      10       -      320       263      811      29         -        -        81         -       -       -    375
Out                           190        -         -       -        -      328      144      516      22      100       313       375         -       -      81       -
Total                         190        -       180       10       -      648      407    1,327      51       100      313       456         -       -      81     375
Chemical fertilizers
In                           728         -         -      27       -   1,451         15       17       -        15       30       484         -       -       -      12
Out                             -       52       417     256       30        -      104      887     528         -        8         -        12       -    472       12
Total                         728       52       417     283       30   1,451       119      904     528        15       38       484        12       -    472       24
Salt
In                              -      119         -       -        -        -   1,107        10       -         -       44         -      805    278         -    227
Out                             -        -       119        -       -        -       13      447     112        50      539       704      606        -       -       -
Total                           -      119       119        -       -        -   1,120       457     112        50      583       704    1,411      278       -    227
Grain
In                            760       50       230     110      30   2,258        716      591     272      141      441      2,523        -       30       -      59
Out                           370      140       590      80        -      611      886      732     525      304    1,200         89         -       -  2,523        -
Total                      1,130       190       820     190      30   2,869    1,602    1,323       797      445    1,641      2,612         -      30  2,523       59
Others
In                         1,070        84       561     114      54   2,757        785      778    468   1,024    1,000        1,715      116      68    271  1,003
Out                           609      139       393    609      133   1,929        478   1,376  1,219        910       900     1,315       34        -  1,263      568
Total                      1,679       223       954     723     187   4,686    1,263   2,154  1,687    1,934    1,900          3,030      150       68  1,534   1,571
Total
In                         3,521   4,223/a  1,086        336      84  13,596  30,959  13,448  1,071    1,641    2,522           6,345    1,641     376     738  1,800
Out                        1,407       751     2,473  2,390      449   4,313    5,595  16,921  4,311  10,653  21,280            2,952      979     147  5,553   1,011
Total                   4,921   4,974      3,559  2,726       533  17,909  36,554  30,369  5,382   12,294  23,802           9,297    2,620      523  6,291   2,811
Containerizable cargo
In                           567        25        58     108    202    1,418         31      222     689      810        45     1,039      116       -        -  1,144
Out                          393        15        65    277      210   1,797         27      177     637      300      277      1,110       34       -        -  1,155
Total                        960        40       123     385    412    3,215         58      399  1,296    1,110       322      2,149      150       -        -  2,299
Containerized cargo
In                             33        -         3       5      18       103        -       18      57        66        -        66         -       -       -      72
Out                            26        -         4      16       13      141        -       16      59        28        -        72         -       -       5      61
Total                          59        -          7      21     31       244        -       34     116        94        -       138         -       -       5    133
/a  Includes 1,790,000 tons of crude oil which goes by pipeline.
Source: Huangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin Harbor Administration Bureaus and Bank staff.
October 1981



_ 68 -                                Table 17
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Huangpu Coal Berth
Operational Parameters Assumed for Economic Evaluation
Item                                            Existing berths      Proposed berths
Berths                                                 2                    2
Cranes per berth                                       2                    2
Average crane productivity per hour                120 tons              320 tons
Average working hours per day                    16.3 hours            16.3 hours
Berth operating days per year                      320 days              320 days
Berthing and unberthing time per ship               1 hour                1 hour
Capacity per ship                                 17,000 dwt            17,000 dwt
Average shipment size                            16,000 tons           16,000 tons
Maximum berth utilization                             65%                  65%
Maximum annual capacity per berth               1,630,000 tons        4,340,000 tons
Ship arrivals                                     Scheduled             Scheduled
Average daily ship cost in port                    Y 15,000              Y 15,000
Unloading/loading cost                            Y 1.00/ton            Y 0.75/ton
Cargo value                                       Y 120/ton             Y 120/ton
Note:  (i) theoretical daily berth capacity = cranes per berth x average crane
productivity per hour x average working hours per day; (ii) theoretical
annual berth capacity = theoretical daily berth capacity x berth operat-
ing days per year; (iii) maximum annual capacity per berth = theoretical
annual berth capacity x maximum berth utilization.
Source: Bank staff and MOC.
November 1981



- 69 -                               Table 18
CHINA
THE TRREE PORTS PROJECT
Huangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin General Cargo Berths
Operational Parameters Assumed for Economic Evaluation
Existing     Converted       Proposed
berths         berths         berths
Item                                     (Break bulk)   (containers)  (containers)
Berths
Huangpu                                      5              -              1
Shanghai                                  19-16 /a        0-3 Ia           2
Tianjin                                       13             1             3
Cranes per berth                                3              2             2
Average crane productivity per hour         22 tons          20 TEU        20 TEU
Average working hours per day             16.3 hours      16.3 hours   16.3 hours
Berth operating days per year               320 days       320 days       320 days
Berthing and unberthing time per ship         1 hour         1 hour        1 hour
Average capacity per ship                  10,000 dwt    1,000 TEU       1,000 TEU
Average shipload /b
Huangpu                                  6,700 tons         -          3,200 tons
Shanghai                                 5,700 tons    3,200 tons    3,200 tons
Tianjin                                  3,500 tons    3,200 tons    3,200 tons
Maximum berth utilization                      95%            50%           50%
Maximum annual capacity per berth         330,000 tons  105,000 TEU   105,000 TEU
Average daily ship cost in port             Y 15,000       Y 25,000       Y 25,000
Ship arrivals                                Random         Random         Random
Unloading/loading cost                      Y 15/ton       Y 10/ton       Y 10/ton
Cargo value                               Y 1,500/ton   Y 1,500/ton   Y 1,500/ton
Note:  (i) theoretical daily berth capacity = cranes per berth x average crane
productivity per hour x average working hours per day; (ii) theoretical
annual berth capacity = theoretical daily berth capacity x berth operat-
ing days per year; (iii) maximum annual capacity per berth = theoretical
annual berth capacity x maximum berth utilization.
/a From 1985 3 general cargo break bulk berths are expected to be converted to
to container berths, leaving 16 general cargo break bulk berths for foreign
trade.
/b Assuming an average container shipload of 400 TEU with 10 tons per TEU and
20% empties.
Source: Bank staff and MOC.
November 1981



- 70 -                                                       Table 19
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Huangpu Port
Coal Handling Without and With Proposed Coal Berth
1980   1981   1982   1983    1984    1985    1986.   1987    1988   1989   1990
Traffic Demand ('000 tons)                      1,736  1,960  2,270  2,510   2,830   3,200   3,610   4,070   4,600  5,190  5,850
Without Project
Existing Berths (2)                           /a                       /b      /b       /b       /b      /b       /b
Traffic (tons  000)                      1,736  1,960  2,270 (2,517) (2,830) (3,200) (3,610) (4,070) (4,600)
Berth occupancy (%)                         69      78     91    (95)    (95)    (95)    (95)    (95)    (95)
Annual ship arrivals (number)              109    123    142   (157)   (177)   (200)   (226)   (254)   (288)
Annual ship berth time (days)              444    501    580   (642)   (723)   (818)   (923) (1,040) (1,076)
Annual ship waiting time (days)            172    366  1,432 (2,788) (3,140) (3,552) (4,008) (4,516) (4,673)
With Project
Existing Berths (2)
Traffic (tons  000)                                                                       1,610   1,070       260    850  1,510
Berth occupancy (%)                                                                          64       43       21     34      60
Aninual ship arrivals (number)                                                              101       67       16      53     94
Annual ship berth time (days)                                                               412      274       66    217    386
Annual ship waiting time (days)                                                             117       21        4       6     85
Proposed Berths (2)
Traffic (tons  000)                                                                       2,000   3,000   4,340  4,340  4,340
Berth occupancy (%)                                                                          30       45       65      65     65
Annual ship arrivals (number)                                                               125      188      271    271    271
Annual ship berth time (days)                                                               192      288      416    416    416
Annual ship waiting time (days)                                                               4       26      125    125    125
Note:  (i) traffic:  sum of traffic handled over existing, converted and proposed berths equals traffic demand.  Traffic
handled over converted and proposed berths assumed limited to that resulting in maximum 65% berth occupancy, with
remaining traffic demand being handled over existing berths. (ii) berth occupancy = traffic/number of berths x
theoretical annual berth capacity. (iii) annual ship arrivals = traffic/average shipload. (iv) annual ship berth
time = average shipload/theoretical daily berth capacity x annual ship arrivals. (v) annual ship waiting time =
annual ship berth time x queueing factor from Port Development, UNCTAD 1978, p. 210.
/a  These figures are calculated on the basis of average operational parameters shown in Table 17 and are not directly com-
parable with actual statistics shown in Table 7.
/b  Traffic would exceed the practical capacity of these berths.  For the purpose of the economic evaluation it has been
assumed that ways will be found, e.g., through lightering, to move the traffic through the port with waiting times not
exceeding those corresponding to 95% berth occupancy.
Source: Bank staff
November 1981



71 -
CHINA                       Table 20
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Huangpu Port
General Cargo Handling Without and With Proposed Container Berth
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988    1989  1990
Traffic Demand ('000 tons)              1,679  1,759  1,843  1,931  2,023  2,120  2,147  2,175  2,203  2,231  2,260
Without Project
Existing Berths (5)                     /a      /b      /b     /b      /b      /b     /b      /b      /b
Traffic (tons '000)               (1,679)(1,759)(1,9Ti)(1,931)(2,02T)(2,170)(2,177)(2,l75)(2,2O3)
Berth occupancy (%)                  (95)   (95)   (95)   (95)   (95)   (95)   (95)   (95)   (95)
Annual ship arrivals (number)       (251)  (263)  (275)  (288)  (302)  (316)  (320)  (325)  (329)
Annual ship berth time (days)   (1,560)(1,635)(1,713)(1,795)(1,880)(1,971)(1,976)(2,022)(2,048)
Annual ship waiting time (days) (4,023)(4,216)(4,417)(4,629)(4,848)(5,082)(5,095)(5,214)(5,281)
With Project
Existing Berths (5)
Traffic (tons '000)                                                     (1,720) 1,547  1,340  1,368  1,396  L,425
Berth occupancy (%)                                                        (95)    90       78     66      68      69
Annual ship arrivals (number)                                             (257)   231    200    204    208    213
Annual ship berth time (days)                                           (1,599) 1,438  1,246  1,272  1,298  L,325
Annual ship waiting time (days)                                         (4,123) 1,611    454    170    210    233
Proposed Berth (1)
Traffic (tons '000)                                                        400    600    835    835    835    835
berth occupancy (%)                                                         24      36      50     50      50      50
Annual ship arrivals (number)                                               125    188    261    261    261    261
Annual ship berth time (days)                                               77    115    160    160    160    160
Annual ship waiting time (days)                                              18     48    120    120    120    120
Note:  (i) traffic:  sum of traffic handled over existing, converted and proposed berths equals traffic demandl.
Traffic handled over converted and Droposed berths assumed li"lted to that resulting in maximum 50% berth
occupancy, with remaining traffic demand being handled over existing berths, (ii) berth occupancy =
traffic/number of berths x theoretical annual berth capacity; (iii) annual ship arrivals = traffic/average
shipload; (iv) annual ship berth time = average shipload/theoretical daily berth capacity x annual ship
arrivals; (v) annual ship waiting time = annual ship berth time x queueing factor from Port Development,
UNCTAD 1978, p. 209.
/a  These figures are calculated on the basis of average operational parameters shown in Table 18 and are not
directly compable with actual statistics shown in Table 7.
/b  Traffic would exceed the practical capacity of these berths.  For the purposse of the economic evaluation it
has been assumed that ways will be found, e.g., through lightering, to move the traffic through the port with
waiting times not exceeding those corresponding to 95% berth occupancy.
Source: Rank staff.
November 1981



- 72
THE THREE PORT'S POJECT
Shanghai Port
General Cargo Handling Without and With Proposed Container Berths
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989    1990
Traffic Demand ('000 tons)                 4,686  5,237  5,853  6,541  7,310  8,170  8,615  9,084  9,579  10,100  10,650
Without Project
Existing berths (19-16) /c              /a                       /b      /b     /b      /b      /b
Traffic (tons '000)                 4,686  5,237  5,853 (6,541)(7,310)(6,470)(6,515)(6,584)
Berth occupancy (%)                    72      80      89    (95)   (95)   (95)   (95)   (95)
Annual ship arrivals (number)         822    919  1,027 (1,148)(1,282)(1,135)(1,143)(1,155)
Annual ship berth time (days)    4,356  4,868  5,441 (6,080)(6,795)(6,014)(6,056)(6,120)
Annual ship waiting time (days)        78    243  1,077 (3,709)(4,145)(4,450)(4,481)(4,529)
Converted Berths (3) /c
Traffic (tons '000)                                                        1,700  2,100  2,500  2,500   2,500   2,500
Berth occupancy (%)                                                           33      42      50     50       50       50
Annual ship arrivals (number)                                                531    656    781    781        781      781
Annual ship berth time (days)                                                326    403    479    479        479      479
Annual ship waiting time (days)                                               12      27      57      57      57       57
With Project
Existing Berths (16)                                                            /b      /b      /b      /b      /b       /b
Traffic (tons '000)                                                       (5,370)(5,115)(4,884)(5,379) (5,900) (6,450)
Berth occupancy (%)                                                          (95)   (95)   (95)   (95)    (95)    (95)
Annual ship arrivals (number)                                               (942)  (897)  (857)  (944) (1,035) (1,132)
Annual ship berth time (days)                                             (4,992)(4,755) 4,540  5,000   5,484  (5,996)
Annual ship waiting time (days)                                           (3,694)(3,519)(3,360)(3,700)  (4,058) (4,437)
Converted Berths (3)
Traffic (tons '000)                                                        1,700  2,100  2,500  2,500   2,500   2,500
Bertlh occupancy (%)                                                          33      42      50     50       50       50
Annual ship arrivals (number)                                                531    656    781    781        781      781
Annual ship berth time (days)                                                326    403    479    479        479      479
Annual ship waiting time (days)                                                2      10      19      19      19       19
Proposed Berths (2)
Traffic (tons '000)                                                        1,100  1,400  1,700  1,700   1,700   1,700
Berth occupancy (%)                                                           33      42      50     50       50       50
Annual ship arrivals (number)                                                344    438    531    531        531      531
Annual ship berth time (days)                                                211    268    326    326        326      326
Annual ship waiting time (days)                                                1       6      13      13      13       13
Note:  (i) traffic:  sum of traffic handled over existing, converted and proposed berths equals traffic demand.
Traffic handled over converted and proposed berths assumed limited to that resulting in maximum 50% berth
occupancy, with remaining traffic demand being handled over existing berths, (ii) berth occupancy =
traffic/number of berths x theoretical annual berth capacity; (iii) annual ship arrivals = traffic/average
shipload; (iv) annual ship berth time = average shipload/theoretical daily berth capacity x annual ship
arrivals; (v) annual ship waiting time = annual ship berth time x queueing factor from Port Development,
UNCTAD 1978, p. 209.
/a  These figures are calculated on the basis of average operational parameters shown in Table 18 and are not
directly comparable with actual statistics shown in Table 7.
/b  Traffic would exceed the practical capacity of these berths.  For the purpose of the economic evaluation it
has been assumed that ways will be found, e.g., through lightering, to move the traffic through the port with
waiting times not exceeding those corresponding to 95% berth occupancy.
/c  Three existing berths are expected to be converted to container berths in 1985.
Source: Bank staff.
November 1981



- 73 -
Table 22
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Tianjin Port
General Cargo Handling Without and With Proposed Container Berths
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Traffic Demand ('000 tons)                 3,030  3,294  3,581  3,893  4,232  4,600  4,949  5,324  5,728  6,163  6,630
Without Project
Existing Berths (13)                      /a                                                     /b      /b
Traffic (tons '000)                  3,030  3,294  3,581  3,893  3,397  3,765  4,114 (4,489)(4,83)
Berth occupancy (%)                     68      74     80      87      76      84      92    (95)   (95)
Annual ship arrivals (number)          866    941  1,023  1,112    971  1,076  1,175 (1,283)(1,398)
Annual ship berth time (days)    2,817  3,062  3,329  3,619  3,158  3,500  3,824 (4,173)(4,548)
Annual ship waiting time (days)         73    165    333    955    215    630  2,235 (3,843)(4,188)
Converted Berths (1)
Traffic (tons '000)                                    300    600    835    835    835    835    835
Berth occupancy (%)                                     18     36      50      50      50      50      50
Annual ship arrivals (number)                           94    188    261    261    261    261    261
Annual ship berth time (days)                           58    115    160    160    160    160    160
Annual ship waiting time (days)                         10      48    120    120    111    111    111
With Project
Existing Berths (13)
Traffic (tons  000)                                                                 2,414  2,389  2,393  2,828  3,295
Berth occupancy (%)                                                                    54      53      53      63      74
Annual ship arrivals (number)                                                         690    683    684    808    941
Annual ship berth time (days)                                                       2,244  2,221  2,224  2,629  3,063
Annual ship waiting time (days)                                                         0       0       0      42    165
Converted Berths (1)
Traffic (tons '000)                                                                   835    835    835    835    835
Berth occupancy (%)                                                                    50      50      50      50     50
Annual ship arrivals (number)                                                         261    261    261    261    261
Annual ship berth time (days)                                                         160    160    160    160    160
Annual ship waiting time (days)                                                        11      11      11      11      11
Proposed Berths (3)
Traffic (tons '000)                                                                 1,700  2,100  2,500  2,500  2,500
Berth occupancy (2)                                                                    33      42      50     50      50
Annual ship arrivals (number)                                                         531    656    781    781    781
Annual ship berth time (days)                                                         326    403    479    479    479
Annual ship waiting time (days)                                                         5      14      34      34     34
Note:  (i) traffic:  sum of traffic handled over existing, converted and proposed berths equals traffic demand.
Traffic handled over converted and proposed berths assumed limited to that resulting in maximum 50% berth
occupancy, with remaining traffic demand being handled over existing berths, (ii) berth occupancy -
traffic/number of berths x theoretical annual berth capacity; (iii) annual ship arrivals = traffic/average
shipload; (iv) annual ship berth time   average shipload/theoretical daily berth capacity x annual ship
arrivals; (v) annual ship waiting time   annual ship berth time x queueing factor from Port Development,
UNCTAD 1978, p. 209.
la  These figures are calculated on the basis of average operational parameters shown in Table 18 and are not
directly comparable with actual statistics shown in Table 7.
/b  Traffic would exceed the practical capacity of these berths.  For the purpose of the economic evaluation it
has been assumed that ways will be found, e.g., through lightering, to move the traffic through the port with
waiting times not exceeding those corresponding to 95% berth occupancy.
Source: Bank staff.
November 1981



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
(Y million)
Benefits                                                                                             Benefits
Costs                            Ships             Cargo               Net                         Costs                             Ships               Cargo               met
Mainte-             Port    Berth  Waiting   Berth  Waiting             cash                       Kainte-              Port    Berth   Waiting  Berth   Waiting              cash
Year    Capital   nance   Total   handling  time        time    time    time    Total   flow    Year    Capital   nance   Total   handling  time            time    time       time    Total   flow
Huangpu Coal Berths                                                                                Shanghai Container Berths
1981      2.4               2.4                                                          - 2.4    1981      15.8/b             15.8                                                            -15_8
1982     16.7              16.7                                                          -16.7    1982      33.5               33.5                                                            -33.5
1983     18.0              18.0                                                          -18.0    1983      39.1               39.1                                                            -39.1
1984     44.1              44.1                                                          -44.1    1984      38.2               38.2                                                            -3)8.2
1985     35.5              35.5                                                          -35.5    1985      13.0               13.0       5.5    10.1       11.6    3.2         2.7    33.1    20.1
1986              5.4       5.4        0.5     4.8    58.3       0.3    3.1      67.0    61.6    1986                 5.3       5.3        7.0    12.8      14.7    4.0         3.4    41.9    36.6
1987              5.4       5.4        0.8     7.2    67.0       0.4    3.5      78.9    73.5    1987                 5.3       5.3       8.5    15.6       18.2    4.9         4.2    51.4    46.1
1988-                                                                                              1988-
1995             5.4       5.4        1.1     8.9    68.2       0.4    3.6      82.2    76.8       1995              5.3       5.3       8.5    15.6       18.2    4.9         4.2    51.4    46.1
1996-                                                                                              1996-
2005              7.7/d    7.7        1.1     8.9    68.2       0.4    3.6      82.2    74.5       2005              7.2/d    7.2         8.5    15.6      18.2    4.9         4.2    51.4    44.2
lluan pu Container Berth                                                                           Tianjin Container Berths
1981     39.3                39.3                                                        -39.3    1981      28.2/c             28.2                                                            -28.2
1982     19.6                19.6                                                        -19.6    1982      63.6               63.6                                                            -63.6
1983     21.3                21.3                                                        -21.3    1983      91.9               91.9                                                            -91.9
1984      7.3                 7.3                                                        - 7.3    1984      86.3               86.3                                                            -8.3
1985     12.2                12.2      2.0     3.7    13.9       1.4      4.0    25.0    12.8    1985       27.1               27.1                                                            -27.1
1986      7.4                 7.4      3.0     5.2    51.1       2.0    14.3    75.6    i8.2    1986                  9.4       9.4        8.5    15.6      36.1    2.8         5.0    68.0    58.6
1987               3.3         3.3     4.2     7.6    61.6       2.9    19.4    95.7    92.4    1987                  9.4       9.4       10.5    19.2      60.0    3.4         8.5   101.6    92.6
1988-                                                                                              1988-
1995              3.3        3.3      4.2     7.6    73.7       2.9    20.9   109.3   1)6.0        1995              9.4       9.4       12.5    22.9      64.7    4.1         9.2   113.4   I14.0
1996-                                                                                              1996-
2005              4.2/d       4.2     4.2     7.6    73.7       2.9    20.9   109.3   135.1        2005             12.0/d   12.0        12.5    22.9      64.7    4.1         9.2   113.4   101.4
/a  Includes Y 21.5 million covering engineering and civil works undertaken in 1979 and 1980.
/b  Includes Y 3.8 million covering engineering and civil works undertaken in 1980.
Tb Includes Y 13.4 million covering engineering and civil works undertaken in 1979 sad 1980.
/d Assumes equipment maintenance costs increase by 50X to reflect higher costs as maintenance and/or replacement as equipment grows older.
Source:  Bank staff.
November 1981



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Representative Ship Costs
--- General cargo ship --             Container ship ---  ------ Bulk carrier ------
Average Characteristics
Deadweight tons (tons)             22,000    15,000        7,500    25,000  12,000   8,000  37,000         26,000      15,000
Cargo capacity (TEU or tons)    13,000/a   9,200/a   5,300/a   1,394             824      430  36,300/b  26,000/b  14,400/b
Length (m)                          162.1i    154.1        139.3      208.1   164.8   122.4   196.2          177.0      146.0
Beam (m)                             22.8        19.8       18.3       30.6    20.0    20.7    25.5           22.9       20.1
Draft (m)                            10.4         9.5        7.5       10.4      7.8      7.0    11.4         10.4        8.6
Cost of vessel (US$-000)           15,810    14,512    11,849    39,178  18,682  11,954  20,972            17,945    11,965
Operating Costs (US$/day)
Depreciation and interest           5,024      4,611       3,765    12,450   5,936   3,799   6,664          5,702       3,802    4
Bunkers at sea                      4,658      5,296       5,430    25,148   5,432   4,072   6,382          6,398       3,335   Ui
Bunkers in port                       938         804        804      1,608      804      670   1,072       1,018         938
Maintenance                         1,771      1,304         817      2,962   2,014   1,339   1,229         1,096         583
Lube oil                               112        140        120        474      150       88      150         150         69
Crew                                1,939      1,939       1,794      1,939   1,872   1,759   1,939         1,939       1,855
Insurance                             673        292         172        721      658      552      463         523        242
Overheads                             348         319        232        406      348      290      290         290        232
Total at Sea                    14,525    13,901    12,330    44,100  16,410  11,899  17,117            16,098    10,118
Total in Port                   10,805      9,409      7,704    20,560  11,782   8,497  11,807          10,718      7,721
/a  At 80 cubic feet/ton.
7/ At 45 cubic feet/ton.
Source:  Representative Ship Costs, A&P Appeldore Ltd. August 1980.
October 1981



_ 76 _                         Table 25
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Financial Forecast Methodology and Principal Assumptions
1.         Traffic over HAB facilities will increase as forecast in Tables
13 to 15.
2.         Harbour Superitendency Organization.  Forecasts are based on HAB
forecasts of vessels and cargo utilizing all river facilities, whether or not
operated by the HAB, using current HSO tariffs.
3.         HAB Operating Revenue.  Forecasts (with the exception of "sales")
have been calcuLated on the basis of traffic forecasts referred to above,
using current HAB tariffs. Calculations of revenue related to cargo loading
and unloading are given in Tables 32 to 34. Income from "sales" is derived
from materials and services supplied by port workshops to other enterprises
in the city or province. The HAB's have conservatively forecast this item to
level off at Y 1.6 million in 1983 at Huangpu, and at Y 7.0 million in 1981
at Tianjin even though considerably higher figures have been achieved in
previous years.
4.        2Oerating Expenses.  Personnel cost forecasts take into account
additional labor to meet traffic growth. Tools and labor protection expenses
also reflect growth.  Machinery expenses rise sharply in 1985 and 1986,
reflecting depreciation charges on newly acquired project cargo handling
equipment. Management expenses show only a modest increase as part of these
costs are of a fixed or semi-variable nature. Operating tax is based on 3%
of most part income (e.g. sales are excluded). Dredging costs relate only to
thie maintenance of required depths in port basins. The cost of dredging port
access channels is met from MOC resources.
5.         Depreciation.  Overall annual average rate resulting from HAB
estimates of future depreciation charges on fixed assets in use - other than
basic facilities (in %) are as follows:
Port            1981    1982    1983    1984    1985          1986
Huangpu         3.9      4.0      4.3      4.8      4.5       4.2
Shanghai        3.2      3.2      3.2      3.4      3.5       3.6
Tianjin         4.1      4.5      4.6      4.5      5.2       4.8



- 77                            Table 25
Page 2 of 3
6.        Price Inflation.  General inflation is assumed to raise costs,
excluding fixed charges such as depreciation, at an annual rate of 6%.
7.        Nonoperating Net Costs.  Relate to staff welfare services such
as schools, hospitals and housing.
8.        Apportionment of HAB Surplus Revenues.  Each HAB may retain:
(a) a sum equivalent to 5% of total wages to be used for welfare
funds and bonus awards providing the year's profit target is
achieved;
(b) 20% of the year's profit in excess of that of the preceeding
year to be used for developing production, collective staff
welfare and bonus awards; and
(c) 50% of depreciation charge to be used for the renewal of assets
other than basic facilities.
The HAB have divided these funds between seven categories called Internal
Special Funds; these are: (i) Renewals, (ii) Welfare (iii) Renovation,
(iv) Science and Technology, (v) Environmental, (vi) Enterprise Development
and (vii) Bonus. It is not practicable to attempt to forecast the movements
of these individual funds. On the advice of MOC, it has simply been assumed
that 12% of the net income would be retained annually by each HAB. The
balance is remitted to the MOC and the Ministry of Finance.
9.       Levy on Shanghai Fixed Assets.  Imposed by MOC on basis of 2.52%
of fixed assets in use and 2.4% on current assets.
10.       Balance Sheets
(a) Receivables, based on previous experience are assumed to be:
Huangpu      2.5% of revenues
Shanghai    7.5% of revenues
Tianjin      2.5% of revenues
(b) Payables, based on previous experience are assumed to be:
Huangpu      7.5% of expenses
Shanghai   15.0% of expenses
Tianjin      7.5% of expenses
(c) Inventories are estimated taking into account current efforts to
dispose of slow moving and obsolete stores.



_ 78 _                             Table 25
Page 3 of 3
(d) Access Channel Dredging Maintenance. These costs, borne by MOC
out of port remittances, are based on the following:
Huangpu      4 million cu m annually at Y 3 per cu m
Shanghai    8 million cu m annually at Y 3 per cu m
Tianjin      2 million cu m during 1981-85 at Y 2.56 per cum; and
3 million cu m in 1986 at Y 2.56 per cu m
An annual inflation contingency of 6% has been added to 50% of the cost from
1982 onwards.
Source: Bank Staff
February 1982



79-
Table 26
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Huangpu Port
Income and Expenditure Account 1978-1986
(Y '000)
Actual                           Forecast
1978    1979    1980       1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Revenue
Loading & unloading          { 38,623  53,443} 34,512   35,330  38,250  40,720  43,120  46,740  50,950
Storage                      {                 } 11,745   11,040  11,250  12,200  13,040  14,660  15,980
Other income                    6,061   7,929   8,129    8,840   9,400   9,800  10,100  10,570  11,100
Sales                           1,528   2,027   2,205    1,500   1,570   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600
Total Revenue              46,212  63,399  56,591   56,710  60,470  64 320  67,860  73,570  79,630
Expenditure
Loading & unloading:
- Labor                       3,840   4,181   4,818    5,519   6,174   6,787   7,346   8,331   9,080
- Machinery                   8,977   9,589   9,886   10,195  10 743  11,946  12,974  13,990  15,970
- Tools & labor protection  2,360   1,832   1,504    1,629   2,110   2,423   2,630   3,114   3,330
- Storage                     1,882   2,934   1,972    1,988   2,426   2,724   2,920   3,340   3,570
- Management expenses         3,171   4,295   4,125    4,223   4,487   4,580   4,640   4,845   5,080
Subtotal                   20,230  22,831  22,305   23,554  25.940  28,460  30,510  33,620  37,030
Other expenses                  4,090   5,155   4,833    5,467   5,551   5,680   5,790   5,960   6,250
Sales expenses                  1,389   1,923   2,023    1,350   1,450   1,480   1,480   1,480   1,480
Operating tax                   1,339   1,806   1,585    1,613   1,735   1,850   1,958   2,126   2,320
Subtotal                   27,048  31,715  30,746   31,984  34,676  37,470  39,738  43,186  47,080
Allowance for price inflation          -       -        -         -     950   2,020   3,230   4,760   6,L50
Total Expenditure              27,048  31,715  30,746   31,984  35,626  39,490  42,968  47,946  53,230
Net Operating Revenue            19,164  31,684  25,845   24,726  24,844  24,830  24,892  25,624  26,400
Net Revenue - Harbour
Superintendency
Organization                  5,787   6,394   4,042    2,385   4.050   3,525   2,700   3,220   3,980
Total Net Revenue              24,951  38,078  29,887   27,111  28,894  28,355  27,592  28,844  30,380
Nonoperating Net Costs              905   1,312   1,651    1,726   1,794   1,850   1,922   1,984   2,020
Net Income                     24,046  36,766  28,236   25,385  27,100  26,505  25,670  26,860  28,360
Ratios
Working ratio                       48      43       49        52       51      54       56       57      55
Operating ratio                     57      51       58        62      62       65       68       69      70
Rate of return                      14.7    17.2    12.7       11.2    11.9    11.8    11.6        9.8     7.3
Notes:  (i)  Operating ratio = total port expenditures x 100/total port revenues; (ii)  Working ratio =
total port expenditures - depreciation x 100/total port revenues; and (iii) Rate of return =
total port revenues - total port expenditures x 100/average net fixed assets in use during year
Source: Huangpu Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank staff.
February 1982



80 -                                             Tab 1c 2 7
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Shanghai Port
Income and Expenditure Account 1978-1986
(Y '000)
Actual                           Forecast
1978     1979      1980       1981     1982      1983      1984      1985    1986
Reve nue
Loading & unloading    1155,330  187,990} 141,751   128,387  133,802  141,765  151,643  162,100  171,000
Storage                 {                  }  43,329    40,113   40,198   40,235   40,357   43,900   44,000
Other income               37,090   44,650   36,970    37,940   39,210   40,280   41,200   42,730   44,230
Sales                     20,750   16,730   41,010    33,800   36,400   38,480   40,550   43,200   45,800
Total Revenue        213,170  249,370  263,060   240,240  249,610  260,760  273,750  291,930  305,030
Expendi ture
Loading & unloading:
- Labor                 10,139   10,537   13,190    13,140   13,290   13,300   13,500   13,600   13,700
- Machinery             26,810   27,777   32,300    32,200   32,300   32,640   33,240   33,600   33,780
- Tools & labor
protection            11,756    9,292   11,130    10,020    9,950    9,910    9,810    9,450    9,500
- Storage                8,169    7,574    9,440    10 ,250   10,350   10,600   10,900   11,480   12,000
- Management expenses  10,446   10 ,095   11,530    10,390   10 ,4 10   10 ,450   10,550   10,870   11,200
Subtotal              67,320   65,275   77,590    76,000   76,300   76,900   78,000   79,000   80,180
Other expenses          { 37,320   42,075}  18,110    18,560   17,830   18,130   18,740   19,450   20,000
Sales expenses          {                  }  35,720    31,960   33,830   35,190   36 ,950   38 ,300   39 ,400
Operating tax              6,230    7,300    7,660        7,100    7,400    7,730    8,010    8,210    8,420
Subtotal             110,870  114,650  139,080   133,620  135,360  137 ,950  141,700  144,960  148,000
Allowance for price
inflation                       -        -         -          -    4,360    8,880   14,300   19 ,700   26 ,000
Total Expenditure         110,870  114,650  139,080   133,620  139,720  146,830  156,000  164,660  174,000
Net Operating Revenue       102,300  134,720  123,980   106,620  109,890  113,930  117 ,750  127,270  131,030
Net Revenue - Harbour
Superintendency
Organization            32,201   33,872   29,296    21,800   21,800   21,800   22,100   22,450   23,000
Total Net Revenue        134,501  168,592  153,276   128,420  131,690  135,730  139,850  149,720  154,030
Nonoperating Net Costs        6,430    8,950   11,040    11,500   12,000   12,500   13,000   13,500   14,000
Net Income                128,071  159,642  142,236   116,920  119,690  123,230  126,850  136,220  140,030
Ratios
Working ratio                  43        39       47         50        51      51         52        52       52
Operating ratio                48        44       52         56        57      57         58        58       59
Rate of return                 32.5      37.6     31.3       24.8      24.9    25.7       25.5      25.5     23.9
Notes: (i) Operating ratio = total port expenditures x 100/total port revenues; (ii)  Working ratio = total
port expenditures -- depreciation x 100/total port revenues; and (iii) Rate of return = total port
revenues - total port expenditures x 100/average net fixed assets in use during the year.
Source:  Shanghai Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank staff.
February 1982



- 81 -                                            Table 28
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Tianjin Port
Income and Expenditure Account 1978-1986
(Y  000)
Actual                              Forecast
1978     1979      1980       1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
Revenue
Loading & unloading   }  38,954 } 63,101   53,968    55,457   59 804   65 421   71,665   78,832   84,350
Storage                 }          }            5,596      5,747    6,399    7,164    7,946    9,573   10,240
Other income                8,930   10,576   11,954    14,000   14,950   16,350   17,730   18,980   20,310
Sales                      10,055    8,311    8,876        7,000    7,000    7,000    7,000    7,000    7,000
Total Revenue          57,939   81,988   80,394    82,204   87,951   95,551  103,822  112,982  121,900
Expenditure
Loading & unloading:
- Labor                   3,327    3,913    4,167       4,200    4,900    5,400    5,900    6,400    7,000
- Machinery               9.956   10,399   11,282    12,400   13,900   15 000   15,600   18,600   21,000
- Tools & labor
protection              2,701    3,112    3,050       3,500    4,000    4,300    4,500    5,100    5,400
- Storage                 3,436    3,470    3,333        4,100    4,400    5,000    5,000    5,500    6,000
- Management expenses   4,815    5,823    5,680          5,946    6,358    6,732    6,869    7,168    7,530
Subtotal               24,235   26,717   27,512    30,146   33,558   36,432   37,869   42,768   46,930
Other expenses              4,280    5,787    5,876        7,500    8,000    8,800    9,500   10,200   11,000
Sales expenses              9,672    7,511    8,659        6,800    6 800    6,800    6,800    6,800    6,800
Operating tax               1,652    2,324    2,313        2,356    2,528    2,756    3,005    3,279    3,510
Subtotal              39,839   42,339   44,360    46,802   50,886   54,788   57,174   63,047   68,240
Allowance for price
inflation                       -         -         -          -    1,480    3,180    5,260    7,330    9,960
Total Expenditure          39,839   42,339   44,360    46,802   52,366   57,968   62,434   70,377   78,200
Net Operating Revenue        18,100   39,649   36,034    35,402   35.585   37,583   41,388   42,605   43,700
Net Revenue - Harbour
Superintendency
Organization              8,091   12,364    1,721       5,541    5,725    6,056    6,583    7,553    8,530
Total Net Revenue          26,191   52,013   37,755    40,943   41,310   43,639   47,971   50,158   52,230
Nonoperating Net Costs        1,113    2,026    2,393        2,500    2,800    3,400    3,800    4,400    5,000
Net Income                 25,078   49,987   35,362    38,443   38,510   40,239   44,171   45,758   47,230
Ratios
Working ratio                  58        45        57         53        55      57         58        58        58
Operating ratio                65        50        63         61        64      65         65        67        68
Rate of return                 13.4      20.1      12.6       12.8      12.9    13.7       15.1      12.5       9.3
Notes: (i) Operating ratio = total port expenditures x 100/total port revenues; (ii)  Working ratio = total
port expenditures - depreciation x 100/total port revenues; and (iii) Rate of return = total port
revenues - total port expenditures x 100/average net fixed assets in use during the year.
Source: Tianjin Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank staff.
February 1982



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Huangpu Port
Harbor Superintendency Organization
Income and Expenditure Account 1978-1986
(Y '000)
Actual                            Forecast
1978    1979    1980       1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Revenue
Harbor dues - Cargo             7,055   7,997   9,310   10,210  10,340  11,130  11,880  13,080  14,260
- Ship             1,356   1,656   1,544    1,586   1,638   1,753   1,838   2,052   2,250
Other income                    2,814   4,069   3,i67    3,484   3,642   4,057   4,382   5,208   5,700
Total Revenue              11,225  13,722  14,'_L   15,280  15,620  16,940  18,100  20,340  22,210
Expenditure
Wages                             518      619      717      730      750      770      790      830     850
Materials & fuel                  514      493      633      660      710      770      830      890      940
Depreciation                      302      484      469      475      480      495      500      520      540
Renewals expenditure            1,474   1,265   2,606    2,500   2,600   2,650   3,700   3,800   3,900
Repairs                         1,339   1,697   2,164    2,150   2,150   2,250   2,300   2,450   2,500
Hire of equipment                 173   1,537   1,628    1,630   1,650   1,700   1,750   1,800   1,850
Management expenses               391      476      447      450      435      435      435      435      500
Basic dredging                      -        -   1,632    3,600   1,650   2,650   2,650   3,150   3,150
Other                             727      757      583      700      745      795      845      945   1,000
Subtotal                    5,438   7,328  10,879   12,895  11,170  12,515  13,800  14,820  15,230
Allowance for price inflation          -       -        -         -     400      900   1,600   2,300   3,000
Total Expenditure           5,438   7,328  10 379   12,895  11,570  13,415  15,400  17,120  18,230
Net Revenue                 5,787   6,394   4,042    2,385   4,050   3,525   2,700   3,220   3,980
Source:  Huangpu Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank staff.
February 1982



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Shanghai Port
Harbor Superintendency Organization
Income and Expenditure Account 1978-1986
(Y '000)
Actual                             Forecast
1978    1979    1980       1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Revenue
Harbor dues - Cargo             28,570  31,638  36,998   34,660  36,110  37,840  40,900  44,830  49,380
- Ship              6,315   6,628   7,094    6,600   7,250   7,570   8,190   8,970   9,820
Other income                    11,752  12,931  12,075   12,340  12,640  12,890  13,110  13,100  13,100
Total Revenue              46,637  51,197  56,167   53,600  56,000  58,300  62,200  66,900  72,300
Expenditure
Wages                            2,473   2,852   2,649    2,900   3,000   3,100   3,200   3,300   3,500
Materials & fuel                 1,928   3,030   3,049    2,900   2,990   3,020   3,210   3,360   3,600
Depreciation                       488      575      614       620     650      670      700      740      800
Renewals expenditure             5,200   5,640  11,804   17,020  17,740  18,480  19,950  21,800  23,400
Repairs                          1,888   2,435   2,879    2,840   3,000   3,100   3,200   3,300   3,500
Management expenses                427      552      541       630     670      710      840      960   1,100
Basin dredging                       -        -   2,781    2,800   2,800   2,800   2,800   2,800   2,800
Other                            2,032   2,241   2,554    2,090   2,150   2,220   2,200   2,190   2,200
Subtotal                   14,436  17,325  26,871   31,800  33,000  34,100  36,100  38,450  40,900
Allowance for price inflation          -        -        -         -   1,200   2,400   4,000   6,000   8,400
Total Expenditure          14,436  17,325  26,871   31,800  34,200  36,500  40,100  44,450  49,300
Net Revenue                32,201  33,872  29,296   21,800  21,800  21,800  22,100  22,450  23,000
Source:  Shanghai Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank staff.                                                                    X
February 1982



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Tianjin Port
Harbor Superintendency Organization
Income and Expenditure Account 1978-1986
(Y '000)
Actual                          Forecast
1978    1979    1980     1981    1982    1983    1984    1985       1986
Revenue
Harbor dues - Cargo           11,771  15,055  15,146   14 739  17,090  19,567  22,299  25,412  27,500
- Ship            1,504   1,825   1,969    1,916   2,222   2,544   2,899   3,304   3,600
Other income                   3,515   5,225   5,659    5,508   6,386   7,312   8,333   9,496  10,160
Total Revenue             16,790  22,105  22,774   22,163  25,698  29,423  33,531  38,212  41,260
Expenditure                                                                                                            4
Wages                            361     448      553      560     650      740     840     930      980
Materials & fuel                  99     187      321      330     390     445      500     555      610
Depreciation                       5       5       69       70     100      100     200      200     200
Renewals expenditure           5,051   4,764  12,030    7,512   9,073  10,342  11,888  13,574  13,500
Repairs                          736   1,092     865       900   1,050   1,200   1,350   1,500   1,600
Hire of equipment              1,515   1,991   1,913    1,950   2,300   2,600   2,900   3,300   3,600
Management expenses              640     802     590       600     650      700     750     800      850
Other expenses                   292     452     532       500     560     640      720     800      850
Basin dredging                     -       -   4,180    4,200   4,500   5,000   5,000   5,000   5,000
Subtotal                  8,699   9,741  21,053   16,622  19,273  21,767  24,148  26,659  27,190
Allowance for price inflation        -       -        -        -     700   1,600   2,800   4,000   5,540
Total Expenditure          8,699   9,741  21,053   16,622  19,973  23,367  26,948  30,659  32,730
Net Revenue                8,091  12,364   1,721    5,541   5,725   6,056   6,583   7,553   8,530
Source:  Tianjin Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank staff.
February 1982



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Huangpu Port
Traffic and Cargo Handling Revenue, 1980-85
Average   Actual                                                           Actual
revenue   traffic                    Traffic Forecast                     revenue                  Revenue Forecast
Commodity               per ton    1980         1981      1982      1983       1984      1985       1980       1981       1982      1983      1984       1985
(Y)      ---------------- ('000 tons) ----------------__--__            ________________           (Y '000)
Coal                       F   2.93         211         530       400       400       500       450         617      1,553     1,172      1,172     1,465     1,318
D   1.192       1,524      1,780    1,800    2,000       1,920    2,750        1,817      2,122    2,146    2,385    2,289    3,278
Petroleum (crude)          F   -               -          -         -         -         -          -          -          -          -         -         -          -
D   1.30       2,298       1,720    1,800    2,000    2,300    2,500           2,987      2,236    2,340    2,600    2,990    3,250
Metal ores                 F   4.60            8          -         -         -          -         -         37          -          -         -         -          -
D   1.428         716        900       850       850       950      1,000      1,022      1,285      1,214     1,214     1,357      1,428
Iron and steel            F   6.566         660         400       350       350       400       450      4,334       2,626    2,298    2,298    2,626         2,955
D   1.49          166        140       150       150        170       200        247        209        223       223       253        298
Chemical fertilizers    F   2.138            727        810       800       800       800       800       1,554      1,732      1,710    1,710      1,710      1,710
D   0.123         450        505       500       500       500        500         55          62        61        61        61         61
Salt                      F   -                -          -         -         -         -          -          -          -          -         -         -          -
D   1.005         130        110       180       180        190       200        131        111        181       181        191       201
Grain                      F   3.145      1,138       1,380    1,250    1,300    1,350        1,400       3,579      4,340     3,931    4,088    4,246    4,403
D   0.549         563        635       650       700       750        750        309        349        357       384       412        412
Others                     F   6.062       1,302      1,390       660       650       590        600      7,892      8,426    4,001       3,940    3,577    3,637
D   1.292         257        720       270       280       280        300        332        930        350       362       362        388
Sugar                     F   2.926         352           -       350       350       400       450       1,030          -     1,024      1,024     1,170     1,317
D   0.26          499          -       450       450       400        500        130           -       117       117        104       130
Containers                F   -               25        100       150       250       350       500         375      1,114     1,784    3,116    4,267        6,461
D   -               -          -         -         -          -         -          _           _         _         _          _         _
Cement                    F   3.109          110        250       250       250       300        300        342        777        777       777       933        933
D   1.016          60         50        50        50         50        50         61          51        51        51         51        51
Timber                    F   4.282           41         50        80       100       110        140        176        214        343       428       471        600
D   1.373          35         10        20        20         20        20         48          14        27        27         27        27
Nonferrous ores           F   4.571          188        240       300       350       350        350        859      1,097      1,370    1,600      1,600      1,600
D   1.428         130        150       200       500       700        890        186         214       286       714     1,000      1,271
Machinery /a               F   6.062                -               -        60         60        70          -           -         -       364        364       424
Chemicals /a              F   6.062            -          -       520       530       530        500          -           -    3,152    3,214       3,213      3,031
D   1.292           -          -       100        90         90       130          -           -       130       116        116       168
Other operations                               -          -         -         -          -         -      6,392      5,868    9,205    8,554    8,265          7,388
Subtotal                            11,590    11,870   12,130   13,160   14,060   15,800    34,512    35,330   38,250   40,720   43,120   46,740
Storage                                        -          -         -         -         -          -    11,745      11,040   11,250    12,200   13,040    14,660
Nonbureau cargo                              515        730       810       820       830        750          -           -         -         -          -         -
Total                               12,105    12,600   12,940   13,980   14,890   16,550    46,257    46,370   49,500   52,920   56,160   61,400
F = Foreign, D 0 Domestic
/a Included in "Other" prior to 1982.
Source: Huangpu Harbor Administration Bureau.
September 1982
1-0



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Shanghai Port
Traffic and Cargo Handling Revenue, 1980-85
Average   Actual                                                         Actual
revenue   traffic                   Traffic forecast                    revenue                   Revenue forecast
Commodity               per ton    1980        1981      1982     1983      1984      1985       1980         1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
(y)     _______----------  ( 000 ton.s)                                                         (V  000) -
Coal                      F    2.50         53         50        50        J0        30         -         132        125       125       125       125         -
D    0.77    25,651    26,280   26,600   26,900   28,400   30,000            19,751    20,235   20,482   20,713   21,868   23,100
Metal ores                F    2.52      3,986      2,490    2,500    2,000    2,250    2,500          10,045      6,275    6,300    5,040    5,670    6,300
D    0.95      5,868      3,830    3,400    3,000    1,000    1,300           5,575      3,638    3,230    2,850         950    1,235
Iron & Steel              F    4.95      1,755      1,100    1,120    1,500    1,900    2,000           8,687      5,445    5,544      7,425    9,405    9,900
D    1.37      3,776      3,720    3,890    3,650    3,800    3,850           5,173      5,096    5,329    5,000    5,206    5,274
Const. materials          F    1.90         12          -         -        30        30        50          23          -         -         57        57        95
D    0.90      5,637      5,510    6,220    6,840    7,570    8,000           5,073      4,959    5,598    6,156    6,813    7,200
Cement                    F    5.40        636        650       680       550       550       530       3,435      3,510    3,672    2,970    2,970    2,862
D    0.97        250        200       310       410       530       670         243        194       300       398       514       650
Lumber                    F    5.10        823        550       550       550       550       650       4,197      2,805    2,805    2,805    2,805    3,315
D    1.30      1,156        960    1,000    1,070    1,110    1,150           1,503      1,248    1,300    1,391       1,443    1,495
Nonferrous ores           F    3.36        648        690       720       550       450       350       2,177      2,318    2,419    1,848    1,512    1,176               1
D    1.01      1,651      1,570    1,560    1,670    2,090    3,600           1,667      1,586    1,575    1,686    2,111    3,636               X
Chemical fertilizers    F    2.12        1,451      1,000    1,100    1,100    1,200    1,250           3,077      2,120    2,332    2,332    2,544    2,650
D    1.04      1,022        670       670       690       710       750       1,063        697       697        717       738       780          X
Salt                      F    -             -          -         -         -         -         -           -          -         -         -          -         -
D    0.81      1,577      1,570    1,620    1,620    1,710    1,700           1,277      1,272    1,312    1,312        1,385    1,377
Grain                     F    3.91      2,869      2,960    3,050    3,000    3,000    2,950          11,218    11,573   11,925   11,730   11,730   11,535
D    1.04      2,763      2,970    3,100    3,410    3,440    2,550           2,874      3,089    3,224    3,546    3,577    2,562
Other                     F    6.60      4,510      4,480    4,670    5,660    6,350    7,300          29,766    29,568   30,822   37,356   41,910   48,180
/a                        D    1.63      3,238      3,250    4,190    4,750    5,310    5,580           5,278      5,297    6,830    7,742    8,655    9,095
Additional operations   F    8.53            -          -         -         -         -         -       9,903      8,242    8,520    8,844    9,635    9,027
D    0.67          -          -         -         -         -         -       9,585      9,095    9,461    9,722   10,020   10,566
Petroleum                 F    5.00           3         -         -         -         -         -          z2           -         -         -         -         -
D    2.00           2         -         -         -         -         -           4           -         -         -         -         -
Subtotal                           69,339    64,500   67,000   69,000   72,000   76,730    141,751   128,387  133,802  141,765  151,643  162,100
Storage                                      -          -         -         -         -         -      43,329    40,113   40,198   40,235   40,357   43,900
Non-bureau cargo                        15,489    15,000   16,000   18,000   22,000   26,270                -           -         -         -         -         -
Total                              84,828    79,500   83,000   87,000   94,000  103,000    185,080   168,500  174,000  182,000  192,000  206,000
F = Foreign, D = Domestic
F = Foreign, D = Domestic
Source:  Shanghai Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank Staff.                                                                                                             X
September 1982
U)



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Tianjin Port
Traffic and Cargo Handling Revenue, 1980-85
Average   Actual                                                       Actual
revenue   traffic                  Traffic Forecast                   revenue                 Revenue Forecast
Commodity              per ton    1980       1981      1982      1983     1984      1985       1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
(Y)     -------------------(   000   tons)   -------------------   ---------------------   (Y    -000)   -------------------
Total traffic & revenue
Non-port traffic                        626        640      670       730      805       850          -          -        -         -         -         -
Grain (in bulk)        F    2.22      2,612      2,700    2,820    2,966    3,084    3,200        5,799      5,994    6,260    6,585    6,846    7,104
Salt (in bulk)         F    2.57        704        700      800       850      940    1,000       1,809      1,799    2,056    2,185    2,416    2,570
D    1.12      1,289     1,330    1,350    1,400    1,456    1,500         1,580     1,490    1,512    1,568    1,631    1,680
Sand                   D    1.63        377        350      400       572       637      /00        615        5/1       652      932    1,038    1,141
Other cargo                           b,313      6,280    6,760    7,482    8,268    9,000    44,165    46,123   49,324   54,151   59,734   66,334
Total                             11,921    12,000   12,800   14,000   15,190   16,250    53,968    55,457   59,804   65,421   71,665   78,832                 1
Analysis of Other Cargo
Foreign Trade
Container
Tons of cargo                       18s       24U       400       540      b3U    1,850           -          -        -         -         -         -
Number                101.26        (17)       (30)     (50)      (60)     (70)    (185)    1,570       3,078    5,063    6,076    7,088   18,744
Others                              5,711     5,620    5,860    6,362    6,956    6,440    41,854    44,975   43,261   46,915   57,662   46,170
Domestic trade                          464        420      500       580       682      710        741        840    1,000    1,160    1,364    1,420
Storage Revenue                                                                                     5,596      5,747    6,399    /,164    7,946    9,573
Comprising:
Salt                                2,115     2,030    2,150    2,250    2,396    2,500           243        223      237       248       264       275
Sand                                  377        350      400       572      637       700        274        252      288       412       458       504
Container                              15         30       50        60        70      185        255        510       850    1,020    1,190    3,145
Others                              6,086      6,040    6,360    6,942    7,638    7,150        4,824      4,772    5,024    5,484    6,034    5,649
F = Foreign, D = Domestic
Source:  Tianjin Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank staff.                                                                                                       P
September 1982
4'



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Project Ports Balance Sheets as at December 31, 1977-80
(Y '000)
7Huangpu                             Shanighai                                Tianjin
1977     1978      1979      1980     1977      1978      1979     1980      1977      1978      1979      1980
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                               13,868    8,009   11,376   17,522   16,648   27,984   44,475   54,999    4,467    6,948    7,163   10,494
Prepaid expenses & receivables    1,596    1,062    1,872    1,536    6,531    4,875   19,807   16,060    1,419    1,047    1,184    2,716
Inventories                         8,075   10,536   10,972   10,716   29,226   29,180   28,560   25,287   16,118   13,890   15,063   18,709
Total Cuorent Assets              23,539   19,607   24,220   29,774   52,405   62,039   92,842   96,346   22,004   21,885   23,410   31,919
Fixed Assets
Original book valute              177,702  269,797  288,335  304,208  650,390  685,598  733,931  769,384  246,644  338,568  380,710  421,940
Less depreciation                  31,604   35,494   39,416   43,289  218,985  228,498  233,552  230,264   59,476   63,365   67,516   66,219
Net value in use                  126,016  214,221  228,837  240,837  401,411  427,106  470,385  509,126  152,020  240,055  278,046  320,573
Written down value                 20,082   20,082   20,082   20,082   29,994   29,9911  29,994   29,994   35,148   35,148   35,148   35,148
Work in progress                    6,315    2,028    3,174    2,820    7,989   10,545   13,357    6,974              -         -         -         -
Total Fixed Assets               152,413  236,331  252,093  263,739  439,394  467,645  513,736  546,094  187,168  275,203  313,194  355,721                    X
Total Assets                     175,952  255,938  276,313  293,513  491,799  529,684  606,578  642,440  209,172  297,088  336,604  387,640
Liabilities & Equity
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                    9,854    6,528    5,330    3,881   12,605   20,014   24,805   23,396   10,410    6,878    5,524    4,124
Due to/from govermnent                465      (861)     232      (171)   1,874      (232)  (1,372)   4,432        (250)      468      (527)     983
Total Current Liabilities         10,319    5,667    5,562  3,710   14,479   19,782   23,433   27,828   10,160    7,346    4,997    5,107
Equity
From government:
Funds used for fixed assets   146,098  234,303  248,919  260,919  431,405  457,100  500,379  539,120  187,194  275,229  313,220  355,721
Current funds                     5,377    7,226    8,025    8,051   20,274   28,342   28,896   28,115    6,700    9,993   10,032    9,795
Internal funds                      7,656    7,659   10,830   13,996   11,732   12,544   39,225   38,329    3,819    2,809    5,704   11,642
Depreciation/renewal fund           6,502    1,083    2,977    6,837   13,909   11,916   14,645    9,048    1,299    1,711    2,651    5,375
Total Equity                     165,633  250,271  270,751  289,803  477,320  509,902  583,145  614,612  199,012  289,742  331,607  382,533
Total Liabilities & Equity       175,952  255,938  276,313  293,513  491,799  529,684  606,578  642,440  209,172  297,088  336,604  387,640
Source:  Huangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin Harbor Administration Bureaus and Bank staff.
February 1982



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Project Ports Cash Flow Statements, 1978-1980
Huangpu                        Shanghai                         Tianjin
1978     1979      1980        1978      1979      1980          1978      1979     1980       Total
Cash requirements
Capital investment /a             88,673   21,976   18,469        41,125    52,444    68,372       91,925   42,142   41,230    466,356
Increase (decrease) in
noncash working capital          6,579    1,351    1,260        (7,005)   10,661    (8,865)          214    3,659    5,068       12,922
Total Cash Requirements        95,252   23,327   19,729       34,120    63 105    59,507        92,139   45,801   46,298    479,278
Cash available
Internally generated
HAB net income                  18,259   30,372   24,194       95,870   125,770   104,690        16,987   37,623   33,641    487,406
HSO net income                   5,787    6,394    4,042       32,201    33,872    29,296         8,091    12,364    1,721      133,768
Depreciation                     4,755    6,214    6,823        12,968    13,742    15,447        4,828    5,683    6,449        76,909
Total Internally Generated   28,801   42,980   35,059    141,039   173,384   149,433            29,906   55,670   41,811    698,083                   1
Government grants less surplus
monies remitted to MOC by
ports                           60,592  (16,286)  (9,184)   (95,583)  (93,788)  (79,402)         64,714   (9,654)   7,818   (170,773)
Total Cash Available           89,393   26,694   25,875       45,456    79,596    70,031        94,620   46,016   49,629    527,310
Cash at end of year                  8,009   11,376   17,522        27,984    44,475    54,999         6,948    7,163   10,494        83,015
Increase (decrease) in cash
during period                     (5,859)   3,367    6,146        11,336    16,491    10,524        2,481        215    3,331      48,032
/a Net of disposals.
Source:  Huangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin Harbor Administration Bureaus and Bank staff.
February 1982
m



THE1 THREFF PORTS PR0JECT
Proj-t Roe  al-      c   Sheets  -st December 31, 1900O-06
1080  1 -0  -   1q-         1903       10         1905        1006       1980        l 190 1    1082        103        1984        1905      1986        1980        191        18           93         184        1985        18
7Cirrent A-sts
CG eh                            17,522      13,004      13,269     13,460     13,337      11,031     14,047     50,909      15.125    36,850       16,752     36,610      36,035   36,410       10,494      10,474      11,038     14,999    11,370        11,970     11,794
& rereleshles           ~~~~~~~1:,436  1,000   1,000      7,030       2,150      2,354       2,414     16,00        5,50      15,600       1, 4 1(1  17,614      1 9,01711   20,320     2,1716      2,610      2,040       3,120       3,430      3,280       4,.08
.-vetori-                        10,6        10,50 0 10600          11,40       11,50     12,0n11      2,500     25,27       25,00      24030       25,000     26,0400        22540    20,500    10,09       10,504       10,00     18.500      19,000     19,500      20.080
o -tel CurrentL As-nts       219,724      25,984     25 ,7 69    26,498    26,907    20,101        29,002     96, 146    25,175      76,530      78,162     80,029      31,315   05,830       31,919      31,580     31,070      92.619      33,800     35,250      35,824
FI.ed Asse ts
_lg inoI book va1-            189,516    ,991,516   206,5161   213:,516    2211,516   257,025"  3160,307       33,757    570,050    '8,0501   600,211,   637,700    60,700I  2166024   lq4 409   202,409   211,400    220,4009   229,409     305,7786    384,164
lees depreclutton       ~~~43,289   50,800     59,01      68,120    20,23    90,42          105,425    23(264   247,784   266,734    8505504   306,504   370,404  355,544               66,219      74,359    83,224       93,63    103,002    117,70   134.270
S,,bt.t.1                    148,227   140,627    147,497    145,306   142,773   167/, 400   254,922   30 2 ,20 6   322,266   322,016   322,546   331,201    350,240  0,10,680   1~28,190   120,050    122,685    126,746   125,807    188,016   248,896
Nondep-erOble                   94,610      94,610     04,610    04,610       94,610   101,020    729,551   206,340   206,3401  206,340   206,340    2 35, 6202   247,602  2 72 ,2 34   102,383    192,303   1 92, 3 83   192,383    192,383   294,144    396,586
Net Value to Use               240,837   243.237   242,107   240,00b  2137,303   349,330   484,473   500,1526   52,0    529,156   528,886   566,006   605,846  602,914   320,573    320,433   320,068   319,129   317,990   48,6    646,4800
Nut 00  se
..lte  I ..  ....,           20,082      2(0,02     20,082      20,082    20,002      20,02       20,0012    29,944      20,991    20,094    29,904          99,014    29,904   29,994  I35,140          35,148      35,148     35,148      35,140      35,148     39,1481
wr10pr-gres                 2,B20       2,820      2,870      2,820       2,020      2,020       2,020      6,924       6,971      6,074       6,974      6,924       6,024     6,974
Oubot.ul                      22,902      22,902     22,902      22,002    22qO        22,902    22,002       36,068      36,960     3696        36,968     26,960      36,060    36,960      3,4          410       3,4          518        3,4         518        3,4
Total Fixed Assets           263,230    266,130    264,009   262,9008   260,285   372,232   5107,375   5416,094   565,574   566,124    565,854   603,004   642,014  719,882   355,721   355,581    355,216    354,277    353,138   417,608   681.548
Toteal Assess                293,513   202,123   290,778   289,408    2087, 2772   430,413    536,462   612,440   6_45,740    64,5    6441,016   684,003    72,1   005,720   387,640   387,16t   382,8094   386,896   3286,938   552,858   717,422
tarreat Li.billti-s
A.....ate psyable -loeldiet
lde Iran/to  aerse              3,710       3,360      3,540       3,960      4,390(      4,707      5,350    27,020       24,810     26,230      27,820     28,010      37,9701    06,000      5,107       4,750       5,430       6,100      6,700       7,580      8,310
Eosity
Foad  usd fo- flo-d
assure              ~~~~~~~~260,910    263,310    062,180    260,000     757 ,4 65   369,412   503,555   539,170   3508,600   559,1511    550,880   396,000   635,404   712,9000    345,721    355,581   355,216    354,272    353,128   517,608   681,548
C-rre-t lfads                    8,051 I                                                                        20,115 7                                                                          ,795 )
lete-s    fs,sd                  13,996 5  0,444        25,040      25,350     25,427      26,131    27,557       1130,32    1 7,000     57,274     57,316      58,303     52,300    56,017       11,642 526,830         26,448      26,519     27,110      27,670    27,964
Oepreelaslae/reaeual  0f-d   6,837 5                                                                          ,00  3                                                                         5,3755
Petal boofly         ~~~~~~289,003   288,763   287,238   290,446   282,002   394,543   531,412   614,612  _615,`909   616,4?4   616,196   655,273   603, 149  760,720   302,533   382,411    381,664    38,9    380,238   545,278    70,1
Fatal ~LIl,llItles
6 loelty           ~~~~~~~293,513   292,123   2.90,728   289,406   287,272   40_1    436,462  _640.4411    6401,749   642,654   6_44,016   604,003   726,119  805,720   387,640    387,161   387,094   386.896   386,938   552,858   717,422 
Cureet Itull                              8.0        7.7         7.3        6.7        6.1         5.0         5.4        3.4        3.0         7.0        2.0         2.0        2 .5       2.1         6.2        6.6         5.8         5.3         5.0        4.6         4.3
OnuR-e 1   sk st-ff.
OctobeR 1981



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Project Ports Cash Flow Projections, 1981-86
(Y '000)
Huangpu                                                  Shanghai                                                     Tianjin
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986            1981      1982      1983      1984    1985        1986        1981     1982    1983    1984    1985         1986
Cash requirements
Capital investment (using
retained share of net
revenue and depreciation)  10,000   7,000   7,000   8,000   8,000  10,000             37,000   19,000   19,000   19,000   22,000   23,000           8,000   9,000   9,000   9,000  11,000   13,000
Remittances to MOC
HAB net income               20,240  20,284  20,222  20,213  20,803  21,454           83,863   87,110   89,168   90,903   98,539   99,972          28,954  28,850  30,081  33,077  33,620   34,056
HSO net revenue               2,385   3,905   3,525   2,700   3,220   3,980           13,400   14,000   14,575   15,550   16,725   18,075           5,541   5,725   6,056   6,583   7,553    8,530
Depreciation                  1,520   1,997   1,820   2,124   2,346   3,000            3,504    3,690    3,854    4,200    4,608    5,200           1,628   1,873   1,988   2,028   2,793    3,300
Remittances to MINFIN
Depreciation                  2,280   2,439   2,730   3,187   3,519   4,500            5,256    5,535      5,781     6,300    6,912    7,800        2,442   2,809   2,982   3,041   4,190    4,950
Increase (decrease) in
noncash working capital          398       20     110      200      210      210       1,691   (1,760)       140    1,210   (1,200)           -         42    (950)    110        210      (30)       70
Assets levy (Shanghai)               -        -        -        -       -        -       9,600    9,840   10,080   10,820   11,560   12,700                -        -        -        -        -          -
Total Cash Requirements   36,823  35,645  35,407  36,424  38,098  43,144    154,314  137,415  142,598  147,983  159,144  166,747                  46,607  47,307  50,217  53,939  59,126   63,906
Cash available
Internally generated
Port net income              25,385  27,100  26,505  25,670  26,860  28,360    116,920  120,690  123,230  126,850  136,220  140,030    38,443  38,510  40,239  44,171  45,758   47,230
Depreciation                  7,600   8,130   9,101  10,623  11,732  15,000           17,520   18,450   19,270   21,000   23,040   26,000           8,140   9,365   9,939  10,139  13,968   16,500
Total Cash Available        32,985  35,230  35,606  36, 293  38 ,592  43,360    134,440  139,140  142,500  147,850  159,260  166,030    46,583  47,875  50,178  54,310  59,726   63,730
Cash at end of year               13,684  13,269  13,468  13,337  13,831  14,047          35,125   36,850   36,752   36,619   36,735   36,018    10,470  11,038  10,999  11,370  11,970   11,794
Increase (decrease) in cash
during period                   (3,838)   (415)    199    (131)    494         216      19,874     1,725       (98)    (133)        116     (717)        (24)    568    (39)        371      600      (176)
H
Source:  Bank staff                                                                                                                                                                                                     tr
F
February 1982



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Ministry of Communications Cash Flow Related to Project Ports, 1981-86
(Y '000)
1981     1982     1983     1984     1985      1986     Total     x
Cash requirements
Capital investment - proposed
ports project /a                47,685  153,404  205,635  225,682   94,273   14,414    741,093   55
Project ports channel main-
tenance dredging                41,120   42,350   43,590   45,010   46,470   51,090    269,6330   20
Containerization study                 -        -    1,750    1,750         -        -       3,500    0
Staff training                         -        -    2,000    2,000    1,250         -       5,250    1
Proposed IBRD loan interest
and charges                          -        -    2,055   15,899   13,305   21,233       42,492    3
Balance available for other
investments                     81 ,830  (18 ,480) (65,786) (29 ,143) 119,969  196,155    284,545   21
Total Cash Requirements     170,635  177,274  189,244  251,198  275,267  282,892  1,346,510  100
Cash available
Remittances from project ports
Share of net income            154,383  159,874  163,627  169,026  180,460  186,067  1,013,437   75
Share of depreciation            6,652    7,560    7,662    8,352    9,747   11,500       51,473    4
Levy on Shanghai assets          9,600    9,840   10,080   10,820   11,560   12,700      64,600    5
Subtotal                    170,635  177,274  181,369  188,198  201,767  210,267  1,129,510   84
Proposed IBRD loan                     -        -    7,875   63,000   73,500   72,625    217,000   16
Total Cash Available        170,635  177,274  189,244  251,198  275,267  282,892  1,346,510  100
/a Y 38.7 million expended on project prior to January 1, 1981.
Source: Bank staff.
February 1982



I!
I ::~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~s



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
HINISTRY OF C01MfUNICATIONS
WATER TRANSPORT RELATED ACTIVITIES
Organizational Structure
Mfinister and Vice Ministers
Water                I              I                Water
Transport            I               I                Iransport
I         Science and   Water                   I              I              |         Planning &   Vessel             Port                  Capital                            Ocean
Beijing         Salvage        Technology      Transport        Planning       Industry       Education       Design         Inspection       Supervision          Constrortion                       Shipping
Internal /a   Department   Department    Department    Department   Department   Department   Institute                      Department    Department              Depart'ent                         Departnent
I                                                                      I                   I           I I                                                                                           D
-                                                  - I  I  -     -             -               -                                                    -                                  -    -    -
Outside         Bureaus:       Transport        Shipping        Port           Shipyards:   Wuhan             Divisions:                                    Channel          Engineering       China            China
Beijing                        Research        Authorities:  Bureaus:                         Institute                                                     Adminis-            and            Ocean           Ocean
External /a   Guangzhou        Institute                                       Xinhe           of Water       Workroom                                        tration        ConstrUctIon    Shipping           Shipping
Shanghai                       Chang Jiang    Ginhuangdao  Shanhaiguan  Transport    Conmunica-                                             Bureaus:         i1nreans          Corporation    Agency
Yantai         Nanjing                          Cuangzhou      Xingang                          tions &
Water           Guangzhou       Lianyungang  Shanghai          Shanghai          Navigation                                  Chang Jiang    No. I
Conservancy   Ocean              Shanghai       Tianjin        Merchant       Finance                                        Guangzhou       IR. 2
Institute                       Tianjin         etc.           Shipping       Adn./Control                                   Shanghai        No. 3
Shanghai        Dalian                         Institute      Technol. Info,                                Tianjlin         No. 4
Tranport        Ocean            Shijiusuo                     etc.           Geology/
Tech. Info.                     Haikou                                           Current/
Center                          Zanjiang                                         Hiet.
Sanya                                        Sea Route/
Basuo                                           Channel
Shantou                                      Harbor
Yantai                                       Workshop
Ningbo                                       Prod. Adr.
Qingdao
/a Departments above the dotted line are internal divisions within the Ministry;
those under the dotted line are separate aduinistrative units reporting to
various departments of tihe Ministry.
Source: Ministry of Communications
October 1981



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Huangpui Port
Organizational Strncture
Minist
- -- - - - - - ---- lHarbor StLperintendent
Director
Biunker Supply Co.    - |
Tally Co.             -1        --- No. I Working District
Ship Repair Station  -1       ---- No. 2 Working District
Machine Repair Shop   1     l
Tug & Barge Service  -I    I
Container Corp.             I Denuty Director I/C Construiction
Shipping Service Co. -I    I
Deputy Director                          Deputy Directors                          Deputy Directors                                 Deputy Director
Health & Admin.                           Operations (2)                            Technical (2)                                 Planning & Finance
|-Admin Division                          |-Operating Department                   1-Machinery & Electrical Division               I-Secretariat
I-Hospital                                I-Commercial Division                    I-Capital Construction Division                 I-Planning
I-Epidemic Prevention Station             I-Passenger Service Station              I-Science Technology &                          1-Finance
I                                           Environnental Protection                    I
I-Security                                                                              I-Personnel
I-Education/Training
I-PurcFasina & Stores
Source: Huangpu Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank Staff
February 1982



CIIINA
THE TIHREE PORTS PRnOJFECT
Shanghai Port
Organitation-l St "cateen
Director
Capital Construction      TeletnemInicati.nn                                              Planning &                                           Sco-rity/           Finone Admoinisrratiao
Te-hnical             & Material Supply       & Na-igationnI Aids                Educatinn                      - .ontal Affoirs      Operations                   Coneernial -                arsiIeneo
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      I                       I                           I                         I
Vice Dire-tnr             Vine Dirert-r             Vine Director                 Vine Si-rctor                  Sire Dinectnr          Vine Dire-t-r               vine Dir-nt-e             Vit  hiOmrotor
|-Research                I-Mate-iaO Supply         I-Tnlenoebicatieon            I-Training                    |-Planning              .-Pet Dintricts              -SeuityI
|  Institute              |  Department             |  & Navigotion Aid           |  School                      I  Separtlent          |   (2)                     I                         I  Desarteror
Stations                  l     d                        -     r-Cone,errlal                                                          I
|-tichachin      ery          Ihnr                                                -eodr                     ~       ietrs|Ofhr   nod                                    Departtenrt           I-Aeieinisteraime
Repair/Building           Elentricl              |-Registry of Shipping       |  Snhnol                          reneral            I   ing Station t-                                          earaeet
I  Plant                  |  Appliance                                                                               Affairs                                         -Sething
I                             Technical                                           I-Spare Tine                       Departtent         l-Ihoep Hue Rang                Control               l-VersoxusiS
|-Projct Repair/              Depart-nt                                           |  College                                              I Dd trict                                           I   e
|   .ildi.g Plant                                                                                                                      |
K:t 0:0                   I-rd-ap Co-                                             t-diners                                              l-Paseneser
|-Scienc  & Enviro-           struction                                               H 80pit.l                                             Termi..l
nest Departnent           Departentt
|-idurstOon                                           |-Tug Service
DepattnenteetSttinnv
I-Ceas Se-ir-
I Station
I-TaIIV Co..
Source: Shanghai harbor Adninistration Sore-u and Bank Staff
February 1 982



CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Tianjin Port
Organizational Stnrcture
Ministry
-------------- Harbor Superintendent
Director
Vice Director---------------|----------------I-Port Section
|-  Managers (5)
Production               Management Service         Science, Technology                     |                    General Affairs                Eduication               Engineering
Vice Director                 Vice Director               Vice Director                                            Vice Director                Vice Director             Vice Director
I                             I                           I                            Ii                                                       I                          I
I-Operating Office            I-Personnel                 I-Fitture Planning                                       |_Staff Welfare              I-Education               I-Engfneering
|-Commercial                  I-Materials                 I-Mechanical &                                           |-Hospital                   I-Port School              I-Construction and
|   Department                I                           | Electrical                                                                                                         Engineering Co.
|Finance                   I Appliances
I-Safety & Technical          I-F       
I   Department                I-Planning &                I-Science &
i                                Statistics               I   Technology
I-Tugs & Lighter Co.                                      I
I-Machinery Repair
I-Container Co.                                               & Factory
Source: Tianjin Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank Staff
February 1982
c)"



- 97                                  CHART E
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Huangpu Coal Terminal
Construction Schedule
Item                         1 1981  I 1982  | 1983  1 1984  I 1985           1986
s~~~~~~~~~~~ I                    -I  ___i __' ___ _   IIi
1. Site preparation                             - - ----
2.  Quay Walls & Revetment            ------
3.  Reclamation & Leveling        I         I        I        I        I       I        I
4.  Basin Dredging                                                      ----------------
5. Auxilliary Buildings                                 -------------------------------
6.  Equipment                                              - ---___ ---_______________
7. Railway & Highway B,ridges                         --------------------------
8. Environmental Protection                                                        ---------
Source: Huangpu Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank staff.
September 1982



_.98 _                                  CHART F
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Huangpu Coal Terminal
Schedule for Equipment Procurement
I        I         I        I  -
Item                          Quantity          | 1983  | 1984   | 1985  i 1986 |
1. Portal Grabe ship Unloader          4             1      |0 I M&SI    I      R&|EI   I
2. Bucket-wheel stacker - reclaimer   4              |      |0 I M&SI    I      R&|EI   I
3. Ship-loader (1,000 ton)             1             |       I|| M&S|    I      R&|TEI   I
4. Ship-loader (500 ton)               2             |         I M&S|    I      R&TEI   I
5. Conveyor belts                 as specified              01  M&SI    I       R&1E _|    I
6. Others                         as specified              101  M&SI    I      R&1E_I   I
7. Electrical equipment           as specified       |       I|| M&S|    I      R&|EI   I
l        I         I        I        I
O- I = Order
IM&SI = Manufacture & shipping
IR&EI  = Receipt & Erection
Source: Huangpu Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank staff.
September 1982



CHART G
_ 99 -
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Huangpu Container Terminal
Construction Schedule
I       I        I    -           -        -        -- -I  I  I  I
Item                         I 1980  1 1981  | 1982  I 1983  I 1984    1985  i
*~~~~~~~~~ I                        _ _  _ I  _ _  _ I  1 - _   1-  _ _  I  _ _
1.  Wall Construction             ---  ----
2. Dredging                            ---------
3.  Fill and Consolidation        - - -                                                I ---
4.  Yard   Pavement                          ---------------------------
I   I       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I  I  i       I       I
5.  CFS Construction                          ------------------------
6.    Auxiliary  Buildings              -------------------------
7.  Equipment                                           -------------------------------
8.  Railway Construction                          - - -- - 
9.  Access Roadways                                                   --------
I     ~~~I ,~   __     I. _-  I    .I
Source:  Huangpu Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank staff.
September 1982



- 100 -                                  CHART H
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Huangpu Container Terminal
Schedule for Equipment Procurement
Item                            Quantity          | 1983  | 1984  | 1985  |  1986
1. Quayside Bridge Crane                1              I   T|FIM&S|R&E  I
(Portainer)                                                 I I      I
2. Transtainers                         3              1   T01 |M&S|R&E_I           I
3. Tractors                             6              1   TU1IM&SIR&E_I I
l~~    __ _
6              |            I|O|M&S =I1 
I     ~    ~I  ~I-        1
4. Chassis                             18                      O IM&S |             I
18              |         |  IOIM&SI   I    I
5. Weighing Scales                      1              1    1 0 |M&S   I I
I-I-   I
6. Others                       as specified                      I    M&S M
Iot   = Order
IM&Si = Manufacture & shipping
I|&-E = Receipt & Erection
Source: Huangpu Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank staff.
September 1982



- 101                       CHART I
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Shanghai Container Terminal
Construction Schedule
-I      I~ I--    r   ~   1          I         I
Item                          | 1981  | 1982  |  1983  I 1984  | 1985  |
1. Site Preparation (M,oving Pig  |
Farm,   Demolitions)                - -----------------------
2. Soil Tests                      ------                                
I   I        ~    ~ ~       ~ ~      ~ ~~~~~I  I  1  1
3. Construction of Berths 1 & 2        ----------------
4.   Dredging                             - ------------
5. Filling and Consolidation and |
Pavement                        --------------------------------------------
6. CFS Construction                                                        --------
7. Auxiliary Buildings             |------       ------------------------------
8. Infrastructure Erection                 -------------------------------------
9. Equipment                                     -------------------------------
10. Transfer Station and Road           -------------------------
Source: Shanghai Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank staff.
September 1982



1 102_                               CHART J
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Shanghai Container Terminal
Schedule for Equipment Procurement
Item                             Quantity   1982  |  1983  |  1984  |  1985  |
_ _ _ _ _    _   _   _   _   _    _   _   _   _ __  _      _   _    I_ _   _I _ _ _  _I
1. Quayside Bridge Crane                  2                      10 I M&SIR&E|
(Portainer)                          2                     lo I     I M&S|R&E|   I
2. Transtainers                           3                      10 I M&SIR&EI
(Rubber tyred gantry)                2               |     10 I M&S|R&E|
4               |       I |M&S    I R&E|   I
3. Forklift Trucks                4 @ 16 tons             I      10|    M&S/2  1 M&S/2  I
I         I1    I__ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _ _
60 @ 2.5 ton             I         I O    M&S/40 I M&S/20 |
2 @ 25 tons             I     10   M&S   i           I
4. Tractors                              23               1      10 1 M&S/12 I M&S/111
10               |     |1O _|71         M&S   I
5. Chassis                            33 @ 40'            |      |    M&S/22 | M&S/ll I
22 @ 20'            |      I OI&S/161 M&S/61
6. Weighing Scales                        3               |      |  I   |  R&E
l _   I
7. Others                           as specified          I      l0 7| IR&EI  |REE|1    I
|I I = Order
IM&SI = Manufacture & shipping
IR&E|  = Receipt & Erection
Source: Shanghai Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank staff.
September 1982



- 103 -                               CHART K
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Tianjin Container Terminal
Construction Schedule
'III                        I         I        II
Item                          1  1980  I 1981  I 1982  I  1983  I  1984  1 1985  i
_ _   _   _        _ _ _   I _ _I   _ _ _   I   _ _ _ I   _ _ _ I   _ _
1.  Dredging                         ---
2. Wharf construction                -------------------------------------------------
I        I         I        I         I        1        1
3.  Storage Yard and Roads, Fill,
consolidation & Pavement                  --------------------------------------------
i   I         I        I              I        I        I
4. Railway Construction             --------           --------------------------
5.  Equipment                                              -------------------------------
I     ~    ~ ~      ~ ~~I  I  I    I        I         I
6.  Rail & Road CFS                                                                  -----------------
7. Auxiliary Buildings                            -    -------------------------- 
8.  Infrastructure                                - |-------------------------------
_                        ~    ~ ~       ~ ~      ~ ~       ~ ~      ~ ~      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I  I  I  I  I  1_ 
Source: Tianjin Harbor Administration Bureau and Bank staff.
September 1982



_ 104                                     CHART L
CHINA
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
Tianjin Container Terminal
Schedule for Equipment Procurement
Item                           Quantity         | 1983  | 1984  | 1985   | 1986
1. Quayside Bridge Crane               2              |    10 l   M&S   | R&E    I
I                      ___ 
(Portainer)                       3             I    lo  |F| M&S    I  R&E
2. Transtainers                        5              |    10 l   M&S   I R&E
(Rubber tired gantry)             6             |    |0 FIh M&S    |  R&E E
3. Forklift Trucks         13 @ 2-2.5 tons                 lo  IM&S
I_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4 @ 16 tons              I    |0  IM&S                I
2 Ld 25 tons             |    lo  IM&S     I          I
I I
22 @ 2-2.5 tons           I       [        M&S         I
I     II 
4. Tractors                          10                             M 1O|M&S  I   I
20            1I      OFI I  M&S            II
-r             I          I    
5. Chassis                            35             1    10O   M&S   I           I
65             1    10O I I   M&S         I
I    -r I______ I_   
6. Weighing Scales                     4                   1   IM&S IR&E |
7. Others                         as specified             |  IOM&S I  R&E   I   I
_~~~~                                                        ~ ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~ I  __________I_
1 0 I = Order
IM&S| = Manufacture & shipping
IR&E|  = Receipt & Erection
Source:  Tainjin Harbor Administarion Bureau and Bank staff.
September 1982



no rv > ! S t llos z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u                                                                                                          ,      ,,,,
; ~~~~~~ r_ _                                  /         -        -                 -.  ' '       "r-                                                                       ___   ! __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _  NdRD    150120
u   {s   to =
1 \ ;5 { ~~~~~~~M   O) N    G O L I A/ ,    .
I do 0 ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~       DEOCAII
t_ . r~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                                            1       -              \    N                             N,N. n;i) N.
U- REP OF '/            0                 ~       ~                z       >' \        \                                       -Nl   Nr                           <                                 PEC-=E0 S                   JAPAN
' ~~'~~' 9)   'to.                            ,    ~                                  .                                          -i    K   o- i    g i;          2   ,00,    SPonhg_                                             o
~~~~~~zir~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                         0 N Ct    0           L    I An    /m                         N,<  0
t~~~~~E                                                                                              5                                                                        >s~     '       i\\, Eo(,oo  D/ ),EN 7SOCgAOI
DEN0 RE _K                                                                                                000 ',i, 0                                                                            REP JEI                     JA<Xs v0.PORSANDAROT
AFGHAN rTANI                                                                      X                                                                                             0  > ~ OF KORPA
V~~~~~~~~   > > -/                                                                                                                                ooodo'               Poo_oot,                                         1'2h oy.oERSW lhEt RPsE 
.ng.112WX tsS  k I      S (   wrx-X\;    * SSK                                                                                 I                   uwo U- tFr 4~~~'N OTooIEL EI  -
.,;,,  -~          -T; t          B       U      R       M      A       4.5           Z      i      <      Yong;ze'    9    Comm   ncorlKRE
005                                                                                             E*N,~'~~E A 
rTrvN    <.iG Le                                    ,\.S  ENORTC,{ I'                         \     S.     d              _Mo      4a                                                R?RAIW Y
__.1  __I     N  _  I    A                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
-J                                   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
to,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~a                                                                 V IlE 
NERO       JO                                                                  P                                                                             CHINA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  HIIPIE
PEE oooJlrso,o~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ,rNcu  ~~~~~~~                                                                                                   RAILWAYSPi-b-.'






IBRD lN5l06
HUANGPU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S  1
ZHU JIANG NAVIGATION CHANNEL
Toe T.,  -ITR
T.-A                               I -E-S
I                                                                     I        1~~~~~~~~~~~PO    'SL
C-H  I NA ~ ~ ~~--.-                                                                                                    N  
~~.,It.  Tc,  1,  Locaf,o,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F  15 
,0                                                                                                                 Cho0nnells  <
CHiINJA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTIL
-   5                                0A,' ee2H  I N                   TH
05511  11                       HUANGPU                                                                                 sO. 2 IF0MITIA.
I  t  mm>    00    on.,  (onto  non   Tcr n  no Is   WOoson~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S






IBRD 15817
",/JL LY 1981
CHI NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .  .
THE THREE PORTS PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                              t..-
HUANGPU COAL TERMINAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RolowoRo
No  2 TERMINAL, BERTH  No. 9 and  No 10                                                                                                                       .. ...... f... ..... ..  bes                                                        I
EX15TING                                                                         om,'                                                                                                                                     _._T\
3struc.ures
PROJECT:                                                       -_r- _ _                                                                                                                           To           oo)
STrucruros                               WoNh                 T                                                                                                                                        o,o  ssrp j G__ at 
Ro,Iroosd                                                                                    511 SIO 8''~                                                                                                                      88018818um  To   i ;VC  he
_Roadwops                            ;      ~        z     .= woste ,o,e  r~~                                                                                                                     r,oL'  ukexro,ll.o I        |0
Conveyors                           ;~ t                          uplom~                                                                                                                        cobr,b, om I-1o)           i -
LqhTr Towers                                    ;                    0_                                                                                                                                                             e
Slope protectIon                     '                                     ~       -    r                                                                                                                                           P
Underwater exCcavaton slope           ,   ndme                       t    '<    .                                                                                                                                          1         P
FUTL58 RE:                              jEbttes           E            f                                                     RESERVED  FOR FUTU RE DEVELOPMENT                                               '
0     20    40    80    8       00                *                                      Te9l1)_  _   IoL l
METERS~\ 1  ';                                                     F 19   1                                                                                                 U519,lO  O P        I           --L AeVRmn {  3 
D,spatcl, nob                                                                                                                     .       4OA           C  |
-       --  ,D --111 -     8-S CUS
<                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COAL    STACK             81O lUVO lo   LIII3)/X  
To highwar ol) :d:Y                                 , -                 IC~on eV  1000 (8-4)                                                                                                       I            'I                                                                         8  
.-                   1                                                        CO AL   S TAC-<                              s<kp R+^C 5 1-/                   fII          .e
-''                    ;)98100                                                         COO      STAC
-  (103.39m eev:tloniszel:                                                                                                                                                                                                           ' \ / N L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 
01.014~~~~~                                                                                                                        ~~~~ CO  STACyalKOSE  LelGCo1mrIOm(  0 
Jdiw.,  '                                                                  '              /                                                                     _                                  r: .  >                C H 1
FUTLRE:                                                                                                RESERVED FOR FUTURE~~0111)00)0  OA  DEVCRELOPMENT0
' .'                                                      f:ter    dnplh    12.5  ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~mO)o8)ged                .011 ILS
G cFen: m  Grolm m= M.oro,-I -
0  20    40    60        OOR 1110---T.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
METERS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~OSEREOIA-                                                           Cllo)011-0
-.  I                                                                                                                                                                     AOl~~~~~~~~C D    STC
-                                                                                                                                                                                                                UHDOA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OA  TC
COAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ STC
p1118,08) II ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 10/hb 
8101,280001)0 -0 80000 811                                                                                                                                  - 2              1~~1- 1 1 E21 
--   -   -                                                  -   -              -.                                                                                                                   9211~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- - -       - -
PHd   i/A  NC  (Poor)    RIco,]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ HI   






IBRD 15845
PROJEIT EXISTIN4G                                                                                                                |   /              JULY 19El
C El I N A                                                                                                                                                                                                           I ~Srdre  TTO
THE  THREF  PORTS  PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                             B .trcuesr,i.,"f,      X0
IAGUTEMNLContainer yards                                                                                                                                                                                           Ri,           ~ E
HUANGPU  CONTAINER  TERMINAL                                                                                                                                                           'TRANSFORMER',
H   N TERM NAL, BERTH NO 7 AND NO  8                                                            RoadMas
-~~~~ ,~~~~~~-   P ~~~~~~~~OIYTAINER CHECK a                                                           C H I N A
R.,bb-r Oyr5d go,try                                                REPAIR YARD
|5      t                  .0 100  150                                            Fences
)METERS                                                                      Light toWers
U151DIF PORT PUBLIC  ROAD                                                                                                                                                                  s.s-,             pturc,s
I _ _ --             -           -  -       - I 
GATE
PUEL,NG                                                                   WEIGH-
| l_ _  Li  _                                 1r T r                                               r   d SYAT ON                                                            ELR DOE     OFFICE                      TRUC,
WAITING ROOM          C                                                      R                                                     ADMINISTRATIVE
<I                                                                                                                                         FOR                                    POSTA
_ J  =  _ __ _ __   !  FOR            GUARD           ,
FUTURE
USE
IHIGRHWAY C.F.S.
RAILWAY CF S.
T ---- -    -- __.|                                                                                                            WEIGHING SCALE                                            CONTAINER  LOADING
I5        -\    _ _________ _   _  _                   TRANSfORMER
I  A;STATION~ --REEFER  CONTAINER  STORAGE
TRANSFORMER                                                     |
SSATIO,N C j 
SRIPLOA0ER TRACESSK                           BERTH  NO 6
F  _ tsL 0_ - .  H --i-=                                      -                =            =                      SERTH NC 7                                                                    BERTH NO C
Cc2    Ulo  prhf  9roR,STEEL BERTH  WATER DEPTH 11 M.    Zb, f Jiur fParI {8eGfX PCONTAINER  BERTHS                  WATER DEPTH 12 M.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   .l   _Pcr _  _._  .__r __



-----------       - ---------- - -



IBRD 15814
C H I N A                                          ,                                                           ~r    alnlcpwl                                       MONGOLIAk                                  JULY 1981
THE  THREE    PORTS    PROJECT                                          \                                                                                          M..,ort F.'I-                                               \>U.
SHANGHAI                                                                           ,- -.mranlbudrej 
D str 6u ton  of  Por t  Te r rn Ir      D s tr i cts                       BAOSHA           5e/a/                                                               -Ivreocbudre                                                  "I'll.y ./RE P LELiC
a nd  N a vi|g a tion  C han n el                                                      e osr/inc>                                                                                                                     KO R A
Project site (District No. 9,                                                                                                                                               951-  9  EJING*  36nh gd          _
Berths No I and No. 2 )                               r \\tXo-                                                                                                                                  Ld       -R
_ -,11- Port terminals                                                                                                   -5ee  5rl ...  nnne ..  --v KOREA)
RiPvers and creeks 4< tOOr/  .. Qndoif/
Railroads                                                                                                        t                                                                                                      9X//-..o nu9n ?ZAPNA
------Principal roads                                             w.IO y-                                                                                                                              \
BUilIT-UP areas   .\ 5nga
,    !    2  3    4  5                   ;,           /   >         at\                 -_NEPA                                                   C       H       I      N       A                   nb
K LoMaETERS                            Sa           gk             -           ,                       -          
< _  r          *<;,X~~~~~~~~~ r    >|~~-- F,t>                      G]AO   SIA,
LAND CONTr INE5,t.tA}//!  e ce.a EMA2.  aa9,
X            <_ -X                         t    ,4~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                             ~~~IANGWAN  Dong  f   Yoir                 5T   i H  gE 
~~~~ 4 ~~~~~~~~MAN NFACTUR NOG    |1  EA                                               A       G     ,                                -Poicaibudre                                               22
-7/t   l                                       j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIST RICT  F45   .        3etsrifreanrt,         ,       1KIOEE5>                                                          |, ,-,,  ..  fIAf
+-_<_ | G.FNERA~~~~~~~~~~~~~I CTRGCT. 3                                                           f0 010                                 SWT baOes 40  5   t.nKr,  )
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ISEL                                          \             ENtR4{ CARGO;,////t?- 
~~s    Sf&OSSrhfl.  X '   S Yan95hUE.UM-/ /         X       DIDSTRICT Na.2          Ece<\Nantorg
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~('~fl 40,000t.n /                                                                               A    /V      G S   U)\> 32-
s    /                                           t /           \                                                                                 /                        t            /                   D Cr a.' c^  f f A /~~~ H  A 
+4~ ~~~~~~P ))/ h rOng ltt eozr  xEaarsem eo a                                                     f /ANG            >                                     v   x
/Xz~ ~ ~    ~~L        .l                                                                                      hagh /Ch/.rtsay>stntnhlvangsoXye.mtrnvnomg.or12    2






IBRD 15815
/i7aggp/           J a,mq                                                                                                                              IULY 1981
70 5m Dopmh
Conm Sh,ps
BERTH NO 1                                                          BERIH NO.2 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C \                                                                                                             H i N A
A,-en wo  zD......                                                                                                                                                          THE  THREE  PORTS  PROJECT
EmptyCon,uin   ,esos                                      Eropto Contnryoires Ye          E-yFlood Wlso._ SHANGHAI  CONTAINER  TERMINAL
. -1i NeslyCoosted ooFlr  Wall                                         -                                                                            DISTRICT NO. 9, BERTHS NO.1 AND NO. 2
|                                                                          L]\                                        \                         r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RDJECT  EXISTING
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ "- -    Contoiser pares                                                                                                                                         
Railways
....... ~~~~~~~~            -Ruboer prod g.,ntry
\ =+= ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c-= -~,-l a                                                                                                                  ,             -   Ir.,kas 
t'klfsWosmsn.Ar    I -    -mm C T  SeR ck3sPark0n                                 rr   and loomsS
Fences
Light towers
p-e                     oron,Loed,g Boss                                                        Perko
'.\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
W-;h, dgIr
'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B S"'
PI,.o~~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~                      Pu mReeseo np mIs                                                                   Ern s 1N-rodvto    ngBo
Wsodeo-,rANm,epor,,oool5oo  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,r 
nKnnme,KrrO, erinso osro of  N                     Plosfern                            '--     ohr dgr 
eneonsi  --                                                                                     Co,rro,rse,~~T-  Co.
'C                                 H IOON                                           F, e n
.lu, of mpO note plo h                               x~/                                                                                                     
ofL soon nooros            StovC orme hnd,v af Fotore RBoar Eyenossionn         
.  XF9:G LIORA                                                       '                                                                                                                                              SntA,\f 
R .n9i7 / l'    > .               \                                   ~~~    ~    ~~~~---                                            
BEo_ T ngub fvle,/~                                             T
CHI N --                                                                                            /      t         >                                                      f






13RD 15813
NJ                                                                                                                                                                           Na|a\                                                                            C H  INf.8 A C                     ty 19PI
-- *                                                                                                                                K 1 1  * XTHE THREE PORTS PROJECT
N- Str dsepalcE,                                                      I=                                                                                                                                                            TIANJIN  CONTAINER TERMINAL
a"-                                                        .1od Maca  .                                                                                                                                                               BERTHS NO. 27, 28,29
eac \\rcH j  shW           n bs e equip'5A05NtJX                        PPOIECT   EXIST NCG
_________             ->       Euc esa                   acco~~-  stlc                       L                              st f.
\    \  J   ,     ,,,                 _. _     _            _          . _                 _ _   J                               \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F  1,
__               __         . _           'N \'                            a--cf                                      >Bar rooml                                      -       """ ELIII]en                                                                                    El]A paoE  pmn          iiEl Sotructues yards
r                           j \\                             Z    __ 2   |    L        _  _I          ~          ~~~~~~~~~~ Sewepag pumpestatPar   F Rstnap, pemp orsps       spear sar                       'N-a-                                                        Railroads
l l 0 <E L . X t ~~~~~~~~~~Reraprn ter,                                                                                                     orcrpBeseme,pfora     "ot Aehastrota                       NNm                                               OP-_h\   <  oawy
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"\                                                                                                                                                                                    ___Roadwa  I1>i  -Ys._
||  v  | h Ax dol rood looding tIOCk eIzIPvv C.Y W gelf - Transfor 5ta lon o I X ~I                 j                   re,ac\ctsasatea,pearusa                   "'                     Conps,rer F.r5skoaurete,astcp,-
t                                                                                                         1  |  F   b    +  +    g   F  '    ;   |  |  |    l 1 At \\ C F 5 of ra1 lload huus s pary Png yA Chass park ng puce E \ra    araasarpaptr ap      '_ _
l i   -+--1 tH + Li  Uttit  ICL   l__;  :   I   !|tt  t  X                                                                                                                                                              fXipr3pui,a  -   erre
1    =-  111    [   t    7    T    |   111   |   [  0 ........ O A (elsrH CsrRn Y 3r Beuter C Y Transtorr ; * '| rscC.Y                                              aps's   app
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cua t' 32 iey af eraflT                                                                                                  Eu seth as                                     sfec
X w\  rtX   1 |    ll  1 l 11 + 11  -#    I -+ + +, t   1 | A t  lk  > m     , \  \m                                                             c o NT A I N E'R              T  RaDi- Bubt ' cked gTnc ysck,e                                               . 5 s          ;   
'S+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F                               m     e     "                                                                                                    tppss Esr   Ost                     'TsssturaS TeS  ' sup  N
U~~~~~~~~~
____________     N]    ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    Rd-            N  
\!.    .  .              _______                                                                                                                           Erk  ir,++tuI -tttsru _IedX> Wokrris     m                                                                                   itol
15                                                                                                                                                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
a  ::-                                                                               .s       U rC  K3taA Sail                                                        C    T    NX                 YA R1  D   C        atatrsdoap            h    -
n CaP    i3@    m=W0]rew   ee    f   ;t  N                                                                    tm-
V    a F   -  Im L-                                                        II                                   N                                                        oaseseeot
BASIN   P40   3                                                                                                                                 W.- d.         12 \                                    Gas s   O      '\
^~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                         a                                                                         Wae tali  D
0                                                                                                                      pj 
C H I N A~~~    pilS 
0              lTD             200             300
MET'ERS
C' arsulc ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uaarou1'i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          ~           ~          ~           ~          ~          ~           ~          ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         SIKN
_____                    'N'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
"~~~~~~Ijd k-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B-1, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'hl~~Mared
L"FTE'V Rus 5g,



