Document of
The World Bank                           FC
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RESTRICTED
Report No. P-3392-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $124 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
THREE PORTS PROJECT
October 14, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency   -   Renminbi
$1.00         Yuan (Y) 1.75
Y 1.00   =   $0.571
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CFS  -  Container Freight Station
CHC  -  Cargo Handling Corporation
dwt  -  dead weight tons
HAB  -  Harbor Administration Bureau
HSO  -  Harbor Superintendency Organization
MOC  -  Ministry of Communications
GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE-S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
THREE PORTS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               The People's Republic of China
Amount of IBRD Loan:   $124 million
Terms:                  20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
11.61X per annum.
Project
Description:          The project would assist the Borrower in modernizing
and expanding facilities at the three ports of
Huangpu (Guangzhou), Shanghai and Tianjin. To meet
the short-term traffic requirements of these ports,
the project would provide containerized cargo handling
equipment at all three ports, as well as bulk coal
handling equipment at Huangpu. The project would
also include the training of personnel in the opera-
tion of the container and coal terminals, and computer-
ized management information systems for container
operations. As part of the project, the Government
would undertake a containerization study of the
hinterlands of the ports of Huangpu, Shanghai, and
Tianjin, to identify intermodal terminals, other
facilities and transport equipment required to
optimize the door to door transport potential of the
containerization of cargo through these ports. The
main direct beneficiaries of the proposed project
would be ship operators, and secondarily, cargo
owners and the ports; the Chinese share of project
benefits is estimated at about 70%. Because the
project uses proven technology, and the implementing
agencies have successfully completed similar works in
the past, implementation risks are small. Staff
training would help to avoid the risk of initial
problems with container handling operations.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                  Local    Foreign    Total
------ ($ million) ------
I.  Huangpu
(a) Civil works, coal terminal           31.1           -     31.1
(b) Civil works, container terminal   45.0             -      45.0
(c) Equipment, coal terminal              2.1       31.4      33.5
(d) Equipment, container terminal         0.4         7.7      8.1
Subtotal                            78.6        39.1    117.7
II.  Shanghai
(a) Civil works, container terminal   41.2              -     41.2
(b) Equipment, container terminal         1.7       27.0      28.7
Subtotal                            42.9        27.0      69.9
III. Tianjin
(a) Civil works, container terminal  112.7             -    112.7
(b) Equipment, container terminal         2.1       32.6      34.7
Subtotal                           114.8        32.6    147.4
Training                                 1.5         1.5      3.0
Containerization study                   2.0           -      2.0
Customs duties                          15.8           -     15.8
Base cost, all three ports             236.3       98.7    335.0
Contingencies, physical                 20.2           -     20.2
Contingencies, price                    26.1       25.3      51.4
Total project cost                     301.9      125.5    427.4
Financing Plan:                                  Local    Foreign    Total
------    million) ------
IBRD Loan                                  -      124.0    124.0
Government sources                     301.9         1.5    303.4
Total                             301.9       125.5    427.4



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:        Bank FY             1983   1984   1985   1986
------ ($ million) ------
Annual              25      35      45      19
Cumulative          25      60    105    124
ERR:                     29%
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 3653-CHA, dated October 14, 1982.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE THREE PORTS PROJECT
1.         I submit the toliowing report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the People½s Republic of China for the equivalent of $124 million to help
finance the Three Ports Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China:  Socialist
Economic Development" (No. 3391-CHA), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 1, 1981. A Country Economic Memorandum, which updates the
report, particularly on developments over the past two years, is under pre-
paration. Country data are given in Annex I.
Development Objectives and Performance
3.         China-s economic system combines an urban state economy modelled
after that of Eastern European countries, with a rural commune economy based
on the country's own traditions as well as its socialist ideology. The state
economy is characterized by public ownership, centralization of economic
decisions, strictly hierarchical control, and relatively little reliance on
markets or prices.  In the commune economy, land and most capital are owned
collectively by production teams of 30-40 households, which generally corres-
pond to traditional villages (or neighborhoods of larger villages). Each
team is part of a brigade, each brigade part of a commune: these higher level
units organize land improvement projects, run industrial and other enter-
prises, and deliver education and health services.  In both the urban and
rural economy, extensive reform of the economic management system, aimed
mainly at improving economic efficiency, has been instituted in the last few
years (paras. 14-15).
4.         Development efforts over the past three decades have consistently
been directed toward two main objectives: first, industrialization, and in
particular development of a heavy industrial base; second, elimination of the
worst aspects of poverty.  Chinese development strategy hias also been shaped
by two major constraints: first, an extreme shortage of cultivable land
in relation to population; second, a high degree of international isolation.
5.        These two constraints have sharpened the conflict between the
two objectives. The prospective returns to investment in agriculture (the
principal source of income for the poor) have been limited by land scarcity
and by the fact that the easiest advances in intensive cultivation had already
been made.  Similarly the inevitable competition for capital and skilled
manpower between industrialization and other means of poverty reduction was
for a long period aggravated by reliance entirely on domestic resources and
technology.



6.        The Chinese response to this dilemma has been to approach the two
objectives in two different ways. Following an initial phase of institutional
change and property redistribution, poverty reduction - mainly through rural
development and the provision of basic health and education services - has
been based largely on local resources and initiative. Industrialization,
by contrast, has been based mainly on a massive infusion of centrally
mobfilized resources, with little concern for cost effectiveness, and using
largely Soviet technology of the 1950s.
7.        Tension between these two approaches has contributed to sharp policy
oscillations, as has a continuing debate on the role of political criteria in
economic decisions and on the most appropriate degree of centralization. The
country is only now recovering from the latest political upheavals - the
Cultural Revolution (1966-76) - during which extreme leftist views often
predominated, and egalitarianism and ideology were emphasized at the expense
of economic efficiency.
8.        Notwithstanding these policy swings, which have engendered some
draamatic economic fluctuations, there has been substantial progress toward
the two main objectives. Industrialization has been very rapid, largely as
the result of an unusually high rate of investment, virtually all of which
has been financed by domestic savings. The share of industry in GDP (around
44%) is currently similar to the average for middle-income developing
countries. However, agriculture still accounts for 35% of GDP and over 70%
of employment - similar to the average for low-income developing countries.
Around 85% of the population still lives in rural areas.
9.        Over the whole period 1949-81 the population expanded at a little
under 2% a year. Despite the tightly constrained agricultural sector, rapid
expansion of industrial output has caused national income per person to grow
fairly fast. With adjustments for international comparability, per capita GNP
appears to have grown at an annual rate of 2.0-2.5% in 1957-77 and (because of
a spurt in recent years) 2.5-3.0% in 1957-81. Even the former rate is
significantly above the average for other low-income developing countries
(1.67. in 1960-78) - though the latter is still well below the average for
middle-income developing countries (3.7%) and has not been high enough to pull
China out ot the low-income group.
Strengths and Weaknesses
10.       China has clearly displayed an outstanding capacity to mobilize
domestic resources - material, human and financial - in pursuit of compara-
tiveLy well-defined national objectives. Given the shortage of land and
initially high yields, agricultural growth since 1949 has been quite impres-
sive. Yields of the major crops are now among the highest in the world though
labor productivity remains low. Agricultural growth, at about 3% a year, has,
however, been eclipsed by industrial growth at an average rate of more than
10% per year. Although a large minority of the population (around 200 million
people) remains very poor, low income groups in China have been made better
off iin terms of employment, nutrition, health and basic education than their
counterparts in most other poor countries. Partly as a result, but also



through an intensive political campaign in the 1970s, the population growth
rate has been reduced in recent years to a remarkably low level (1.4% in
1981). Life expectancy - whose dependence on many other economic and social
variables makes it probably the best single indicator of human welfare in a
country - is (at 64 years) outstandingly high for a country at China-s per
capita income level.
11.       The outstanding weakness of China's economy is inefficiency - in
converting inputs into outputs, in matching supply with demand, and in invest-
ment decision making. This is partly the result of technological backward-
ness, caused by two decades of international isolation. But it also reflects
the virtual absence of medium-term planning trom 1i9J until recently, the lack
of economic criteria in investment analysis, and serious weaknesses in the
economic system - in particular, inadequate contact between producers and
users, insufficient use of markets and price incentives, inadequate linkage
between effort and rewards, and an overstaffed and cumbersome bureaucracy.
Recent Developments
12.       Since 1971 there has been intense discussion within China concern-
ing both the ends and the means of economic development. Though partly the
result of political change, the debate has been fuelled by some important
underlying economic considerations. Future growth will inevitably have to
depend mainly on improving the efficiency of resource use. The benefits of
technological isolation as a stimulus to improvisation have been overtaken
by its costs in terms of backwardness and bottlenecks. And the remarkable
progress made in industrialization and in meeting basic needs has not been
matched by - and has created a demand for - a commensurately rapid rise in
general living standards.
Reform and Adjustment
13.       In 1979, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjust-
ment. Economic retorm is aimed at improving the overall efficiency of the
economic system. It involves: restoring and improving the quality of
central planning and policy coordination; devolving more decision-making
authority to lower level units in the economic system; establishing more
direct links between incomes and the performance of economic units and indi-
viduals; and placing more reliance on market mechanisms and economic
instruments, less on administrative directives, to influence economic
activity. Structural adjustment is aimed at speeding improvements in living
standards and involves readjusting the relative shares of consumption and
investment in national income, some sectoral and subsectoral readjustments,
and more emphasis on foreign trade.
14.       Economic reforms have affected planning and management at both the
central and local government levels. A major reorganization of the central
government has strengthened the core planning and management agencies
(especially the State Planning Commission and the State Economic Commission)
and reduced the total number of commissions, ministries and agencies under
the State Council from 98 to 52. Central-local government relations have



been affected by a decentralization of fiscal and toreign trade management,
and the legal rights and obligations of economic agents have been better
defined.
15.       Other reforms have affected the management and organization of the
state enterprise and collective sectors. Management of state enterprises
has been affected by changes and experiments aimed at improving incentives,
including the introduction of profit retention schemes and more flexible
payment and employment practices. There has also been experimentation with
different types of state enterprise organization, a greater variety of
marketing channels, some price flexibility, and greater autonomy for state
enterprises in production decisions.  In rural areas, more responsibility
has been given to lower level collective units and to households, and
incomes have been more directly linked to the output of groups and house-
holds. There has been an increase in the number and types of rural markets
at which households can freely trade commodities. In urban areas the scope
for collective and individual economic activities has been expanded. Some
of these reforms - especially those in rural areas - have already improved
economic efficiency, while others will take longer to have an impact.
16.       Progress in structural adjustment has been impressive.  The share
of investment in net material product (NMP) has declined from 37% in 1978 to
30% in 1981, and the share of agriculture in NMP has increased from 36% in
1978 to 40% in 1981. Emphasis on light industry, which accounted for 43% of
industrial output value in 1978, was needed to provide more consumer goods
to match higher incomes. The shift in emphasis from heavy to light
industry, which began in 1979 and has become even more dramatic in the past
two years, has led to a sharp increase in this proportion - reaching over
51% in 1981. In fact, in 1981, heavy industry output actually fell by 4.7%
while light industry output grew by 14.1%.
Stabilization Program
17.       The implementation of adjustment and reform policies in recent
years was accompanied by some macroeconomic instability in 1979 and 1980:
there were large budget deficits, moderate inflation, rapid growth in the
money supply, and a widening of the current account deficit from $0.7 billion
in 1978 to $2.4 billion in 1980. Except for the budget deficit (5.1% of SNP
in 1979 and 3.5% in 1980), the symptoms of instability were quite mild by
international standards. They were, however, taken very seriously in a
country accustomed to insignificaat inflation rates during the last two
decades. Accordingly, in 1981, the Government introduced a stabilization
program, which included a moderation of currency and credit expansion,
restoration of budgetary balance and sharp cuts in investment.
18.       Monetary and Fiscal Policy.  Restoration of price stability, the
Government s major concern, has been largely achieved: retail prices
increased by only 2.4% in 1981 compared with 6.0% in 1980. In rural areas
shortages of consumer goods and repressed inflation remain, but in urban
areas measures to restrict increases in nominal incomes in 1981 improved the
demand-supply situation. Meanwhile the major changes in relative prices
between urban and rural areas and within sectors continued through 1981.



Some price flexibility has also been introduced: above-plan output can be
sold at prices negotiated directly between buyers and sellers, and there is
considerable downward price flexibility for goods in excess supply.
19.        Strict price controls were one element of the stabilization pro-
gram but fiscal policy has also played an important role. The Government
reduced the budget deficit significantly in both 1980 and 1981, primarily
through major cuts in capital construction: after rising by over 50% in
1978 and nearly 14% in 1979, budget expenditures on capital construction
were reduced by 19% in 1980 and 22% in 1981. Moreover, the mode of deficit
financing in 1981 was less inflationary than in previous years. Because of
the Government-s concern about open inflation, many of the increases in
agricultural procurement prices have not been passed on to urban consumers
but instead were financed by rapidly increasing subsidies (Y 8 billion in
1978 and Y 36 billion in 1981). Total domestic revenues have continued to
increase but not as rapidly as NMP, due in part to the introduction of
profit retention schemes and the shift in the composition of industrial
output from heavy to light industry. On the other hand, extrabudgetarv
funds of enterprises and administrative organizations have grown rapidly and
were about half as large as budgetary revenues in 1981.
20.        Innovations like credit financing of investment and profit reten-
tion schemes mean that monetary policy potentially has a more important role
to play in China. After rapid increases in 1979 and 1980, the growth rate
of the money supply was reduced in 1981 as a result of strict control over
currency expansion. The velocity of circulation of money fell in 1979-81,
but this was to be expected during a time of major institutional and struc-
tural changes, including the increased monetization of rural economic acti-
vities and the proliferation of collective and individual commercial and
service undertakings. Bank branches have been given more autonomy to
mobilize and allocate resources, and efforts have been made to influence
economic decision making at the micro level by increasing and rationalizing
interest rates.
21.        Balance of Payments.  The Government's current policy includes
continued emphasis on foreign trade and on making more use of imported
technology. The performance of merchandise exports has continued to be very
impressive, with the real growth rate averaging about 20% p.a. during 19/8-81,
due mainly to rapid growth in manufactured exports. However, merchandise
imports, which also grew rapidly in 1979 and 1980, fell by 4.5% in value and
8.6% in volume in 1981 due to the stabilization program, especially the sharp
cutback in the investment program. As a result, the $2.4 billion deficit of
1980 was converted into a $2.0 billion current account surplus in 1981.
22.        The strong export performance is due in part to institutional
and policy changes. In January 1981, an internal settlement rate of
Y 2.8 per US dollar (the official exchange rate was Y 1.6 per US dollar)
was introduced for all trade. The central government has actively
encouraged decentralization of foreign trade decision making and



-6 -
has introduced material incentives, primarily in the form of foreign
exchange retention schemes. It appears, however, that some provinces and
organizations may have striven to increase exports even if this meant
undercutting exports of other provinces or units or exacerbating domestic
supply shortages; greater access to foreign exchange has also stimulated a
faster growth of imports than would have been permitted under a more
centralized system.  In the absence of price and other reforms the
Government has felt obliged to deal with these problems by introducing
export quotas for 78 commodities, levying export duties on other
commodities, restricting some consumer goods imports, and raising import
tariffs on others.
23.       The Government's approach to foreign borrowing has remained very
cautious. In 1980 and 1981 it cut back sharply on interbank borrowing and
in 1981 took advantage of the unexpectedly strong current account position
to repay commercial bank and other loans. In 1981, China's debt service
ratio was 7.8%. Gross international reserves at the end of 1981 were
sufficient to cover about five months of 1981 imports of goods and services.
24.       Investment.  In 1978, China's rate of investment was much higher
than the average for other low-income or middle-income countries; moreover,
the overall efficiency of investment was low and getting worse due to
shortages of necessary materials and supplies, major transport constraints,
and :inappropriate and inefficient procedures for selecting and implementing
investment projects. In these circumstances, the Government decided to cut
back on the investment rate while introducing measures to improve investment
efficiency and thereby protect future growth potential. The reduction in
the iinvestment rate has been achieved in spite of difficulties in cutting
many investment components: the share of inventory accumulation in total
investment has remained high; investment financed from retained earnings or
local resources has grown sharply as a proportion of the total; and there
has been rapid growth of nonproductive, particularly housing, investment.
As a result, most of the cutbacks have had to be in large centrally financed
projects, which will probably have an adverse effect on future growth.
Growth and Income Developments
25.       The overall rate of economic growth in recent years has been
impressive, averaging 5.6% p.a. between 1978 and 1981 - a much higher rate
than in the first half of the 1970s. In 1981, however, the rate dropped to
3.0% as a result of the stabilization program.
26.       The combination of structural adjustment, economic growth and a low
population growth rate (1.3% p.a. between 1978 and 1981) has led to rapid
increases in the general standard of living in recent years. In urban
areas, general wage increases and higher bonuses have more than offset the
increase in the cost of living index, and real per capita incomes increased
by 4.9% p.a. between 1978 and 1981. The number of urban unemployed has been
reduced dramatically and, with government encouragement, urban
self-employment has grown rapidly.



- 7 -
27.        Even more impressive, however, has been the increase in rural
incomes.  Information from several sources suggests that at current prices,
per capita rural incomes increased by 16-18% p.a. between 1978 and 1981; and
when account is taken of price changes, the increase in real per capita
incomes has been 10-12% p.a. About 60% of this dramatic increase is due to
increased rural production and the remainder to shifts in the terms of trade
in favor of rural producers. While areas and households that were already
relatively well off may have benefited the most, many poor areas and
households have also enjoyed substantial income improvements.
Sectoral Strategies
28.        The rapid development of agriculture has been essential because
800 million people depend on agriculture for their livelihood; moreover,
rising incomes elsewhere in the economy and the requirements of light indus-
try have placed new demands on agriculture.  Between 1978 and 1981, gross
agricultural output at constant prices increased by 5.7% p.a.; despite poor
weather in 1980 the growth rate was 2.7%, and in 1981 when China was again
affected by severe droughts and floods, the growth rate rose to 5.7%.  There
has been a substantial diversification of the sector, with production of
cash crops expanding rapidly and large increases in livestock and sideline
production. Grain production has also increased since 1978 despite a
decline in the grain area, but domestic grain requirements have increased
more rapidly due to higher incomes and fast-growing requirements for live-
stock feed. As a result, foodgrain imports have been expanding steadily.
29.        The strong performance of agriculture in recent years is largely
due to the combination of improved terms of trade for agriculture and other
policy interventions and institutional changes that encourage local and
institutional specialization according to comparative advantage. Of parti-
cular importance have been the changes in the organization and management of
rural collectives (para. 15).
30.       Adjustment policy in industry has included increased emphasis on
light and consumer goods industry rather than heavy industry (para. 16);
stress on modernization of existing enterprises, particularly through
importation of new technology; and energy conservation. Promotion of
manufactured exports has also been necessary to pay for imported technology.
These exports have been growing rapidly but still account for only 4% of
gross industrial output, and imported equipment as a share of capital
construction in industry has risen from 3% in 1978 to 26% in 1981.
31.       Reforms in industry have focussed the attention of organizations
and individuals on profits and efficiency (para. 15). Innovations have
included profit retention schemes, piece rate wages, and bonuses, which
for workers in state enterprises now average more than one month-s pay. New
types of industrial organization include foreign partnerships, joint
ventures between urban state industrial enterprises and rural communes, and
industrial corporations with authority over a group of enterprises producing
similar output. Charges on the fixed assets and working capital of state
enterprises are intended to encourage them to use capital more productively.



8-
However, these reform measures have not yet been backed by price reform and
enterprises still do not bear full responsibility for losses.
32.        Since 1979 when energy conservation became a major policy issue,
energy consumption has stagnated or fallen while NMP has grown by 10%. As a
result, China has remained a net exporter of energy despite declines in
energy production in 1980 and 1981. The fall in energy use per unit of
output has been due in part to the changing structure of industry: heavy
industry consumes about four times as much energy per unit of output as
light industry, and heavy industry output grew very slowly in 1980 and
declined in 1981. The Government has been stressing the importance of
improved efficiency and energy savings within sectors and has been pursuing
energy conservation through rationing and other administrative measures.
33.        Market-oriented reforms and greater regional specialization call
for expanded and more efficient domestic transportation and commercial
systems. In the commercial sector, the real value of sales has risen
rapidly and the role of markets in the allocation of resources has expanded.
Collective and individual commercial activities have proliferated, filling
gaps left by, and forcing improvements in, the state commercial system.
Growth in the volume of freight transport slowed greatly in 1980, and there
was virtual stagnation in 1981, indicating that bottlenecks in this sector
remain severe.
Development Issues and Prospects
34.        Although changes in the system of economic management as well as
in the structure of the economy will undoubtedly continue, a difficult
period of transition lies ahead.  After spending three decades pursuing a
particular set of goals with particular instruments, the country will
inevitably find it hard to switch to a path that is not only new for China,
but also one that has been successfully followed by few other countries.
Reform of the economic system will be especially difficult.  The measures
described above, though diverse in form, have a unity of purpose, namely to
make the economy more efficient in the sense of both cutting costs and
matching supply more closely with demand. But the attempt to reform parts
of the economic system without a coherent overall program has also had some
adverse consequences. Bureaucratic reform has been initiated and the
momentum of reform is being sustained in the rural collective sector, but
economic reform on the scale envisaged will require careful management and
coordination.
35.        Constraints.  China-s efforts to improve its people's living
standards will, in the coming decade, be subject to a tight set of
interlocking constraints. Some of these are of long standing; they reflect
the country's fundamental resource constraints, especially the shortage of
agricultural land and the difficulty of increasing yields further. Others
are Df more recent origin, however, and largely reflect the price that the
country must still pay for more than a decade of waste and economic
mismanagement starting in the mid-1960s. They include shortages of trained
manpower, energy, and financial resources for new investment.



-9-
36.       The food problem facing China in the 1980s is likely to be similar
to that in the past, but it may be exacerbated by growing demand for feed-
grain to support increased meat production.  Grain output will continue to
be constrained because of the extreme shortage of new cultivable land and
the limited opportunities that remain for increasing yields. Although sub-
stantial gains will probably be possible in the short and medium term
through improved policies and management, the foodgrain balance will remain
precarious and substantial food imports will have to be maintained. Main-
taining a low population growth rate is also crucial.
37.       In both rural and urban areas, the country's effort to modernize
the economy will be seriously constrained by the lack of trained manpower.
Despite considerable progress in basic education, technical and higher
education has been neglected and was severely disrupted during the Cultural
Revolution. Current enrollment in both universities and technical and voca-
tional schools is one quarter of the average for other developing countries.
Many teachers in advanced education are underqualified, curricula are
outdated, and scientific equipment is scarce.
38.       The outlook for energy production has recently deteriorated.  Oil
output peaked in 1979 at 106 million tons, dropped to 101 million tons in
1981 and is likely at best to remain at about 95-100 million tons a year
during the 1980s. Coal output (which contributes about 70% of total commer-
cial energy) declined to 620 million tons in 1980 and remained at the same
level in 1981. It is unlikely to exceed 700 million tons in 1985 aad about
850 million tons in 1990, even if high priority is given to this subsector.
Growth of total primary energy production in the 1980s will thus not exceed
3% per year - less than one quarter of the 1952-80 growth rate.
39.       The prospects for economic growth in the 1980s will thus depend
critically on reducing energy use per unit of output. In particular, the
availability of oil for use as an industrial raw material will fundamentally
influence growth prospects. The potential for energy savings is very large,
as China is now among the world's most inefficient users of energy. In
addition to substantial new investment, however, conservation will require
fundamental reform of energy allocation procedures, incentives for reduced
consumption and changes in relative prices, and indeed, a total change of
thinking at the enterprise level on the way energy is used - all of which
will be difficult and slow to implement.
40.       The energy sector is already absorbing over 40% of industrial
investment and very large capital outlays would be required in the next
several years to accelerate the growth of energy output in the second half
of the 1980s. Competing claims for investments in other sectors are consid-
erable, especially those for badly needed urban housing and for relieving
transport bottlenecks. The attempt to modernize the huge industrial sector
built upon outdated technology will also require enormous investment out-
lays. Thus, notwithstanding the Government-s effort to improve the alloca-
tion and use of its financial resources, a high level of investment will



- 10 -
need to be maintained in the 1980s to build a sound foundation for sustained
growth over the longer term. However, investments in key sectors like
energy and transport are presently caught between the Government's desire to
reduce the saving rate (in order to accelerate the growth of consumption)
and its loss of control over parts of the investment program as a result of
decentralization and reform.
41.       The Government's attempt to foster a much more open economy than
in the past may be impeded by a shortage of foreign exchange. Domestic
bottlenecks in the supply of certain agricultural and industrial materials,
together with the need to purchase foreign technology (in the form of
software as well as hardware), will make continued expansion of imports
esseatial for growth and modernization. The rate of growth of export
earnings depends critically on two uncertain parameters, namely the rate at
which nontraditional manufactured exports can be increased and the degree of
success in energy conservation. Even if energy conservation is fairly
successful (growth in energy use at, say, three fourths of the GDP growth
rate'), oil exports will almost certainly disappear by the second half of the
1980s, and imports of energy may well be required, at least until new
domestic production capacity is established. If the external economic
environment improves, manufactured exports could grow, from a relatively
smalL base, by 9-10% a year in constant prices during the decade.
Nonetheless, declining energy exports will cause total foreign exchange
earnings to grow by no more than about 2% a year in the first half of the
1980s and 8% a year in the second half. Thus the strong balance of payments
situation in 1981, brought about mainly by restrictive measures (cutbacks in
investment), masks serious medium-term constraints.
42.       China's access to concessionary capital is limited:  apart from
what it might obtain from the Bank Group, concessionary capital is only
likely to come from Japan and a few other bilateral donors and will likely
average only $500-600 million a year during the 1980s. Quantitative projec-
tions show that if China is to maintain reasonable growth and modernization
and keep its debt service payments at a manageable level, then it needs to
obtain the necessary foreign capital at an average interest rate substan-
tially below the market rate. China also has a strong claim to concession-
ary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries in the world.
43.       For China, as for many other developing countries, the 1980s will
be a difficult decade, and one whose problems will be compounded by errors
made in the 1960s and early 1970s.  But looking further ahead, China's econ-
omic prospects appear favorable. By 1990, most new entrants to the labor
force will have received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower
deficit will have been reduced. Further progress will have been made in
tapping China-s large energy potential, and in using it more efficiently.
Continuation of recent manufactured export trends should generate sufficient
foreign exchange for the Government to have more contidence in using foreign
capital and be less concerned about its terms. If the country's immense
wealth of human talent, effort and discipline can be combined with policies
that increase the efficiency of resource use, China will be able, within a



- 11 -
generation or so, to achieve a substantial increase in the living standards
of its people. Whether this potential can be realized, however, will depend
crucially on the success of the Government-s program of reform and
adjustment in the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHINA
44.        China's change of representation in the Bank Group took place in
May 1980. At that time, the country had already embarked on a program of
economic adjustment and reform, though its extent and direction were - and
remain partly - undefined. The Government has recently been reorganizing the
bureaucracy, reducing the number of agencies and personnel, with a view to
improving efficiency and coordination. It is against this background of
uncertainty and change that the Bank defined the objectives of its work in
China and developed its initial work program.
45.        In view of the particular circumstances of China, and the policy
and economic transitions now under way, Bank lending to China should aim to
further several broad objectives. First, the Bank should try to facilitate
China-s re-entry into the world community. The Bank-s experience in a wide
range of member countries can do much to mitigate the negative impact of
China's lengthy isolation. Second, the Bank should assist China in removing
the major constraints on development - energy, transport, other infra-
structure, skilled manpower, and modern technology. Perhaps even more
important, it can help the authorities to use these and other inputs more
efficiently, by improving project analysis and investment control, as well
as overall economic management and planning. Finally, the Bank should
assist the Government in its efforts to reduce remaining poverty; in view of
China's success in meeting the basic needs of most of its people, the
priority is increased attention to raising rural earning power in the
poorest regions of the country.
46.        In the initial two years of the Bank/China relationship, substantial
economic and sector work has been carried out. The Bank has produced an
introductory economic report on China-s past development performance,
economic system and future prospects. The report - comprising a main volume,
a statistical annex and seven sector annexes - was distributed to the
Executive Directors in June 1981. It has been translated into Chinese and
the Government is distributing it widely among officials in China. An
updating Country Economic M4emorandum is under preparation. The Bank has
completed sector work in two areas: first, it helped to develop methods that
should improve project evaluation by the new financial intermediary, the
China Investment Bank (CIB); second, it completed a rural credit study,
which reviewed China-s rural investment and financial systems, especially
the operations of the Agricultural Bank of China. Work in both these areas
precedes and complements project work.



- 12 -
47.       Work on the lending program has resulted in approval of two
projects so far. In June 1981, the Executive Directors approved the
University Development project, which involved a $100 million Credit and a
$100 million loan. The North China Plain Agriculture project, which
invclves a Credit of $60 million, was approved in June 1982. A summary
statement on these projects is contained in Annex II.
Work Program
48.       The Bank is continuing its program of economic and sector work.
In addition, the Government and the Bank have agreed on a program of
collaborative economic research, which will apply advanced analytical tech-
niques, develop China's capacity for economic research, and broaden both the
Bank's and China's understanding of the development process. Specific
sector work will involve a review of the health sector, focusing on the
rural health care delivery system and on health manpower development. Other
studies - in areas such as river basin development under the North China
Plain Agriculture Project, and agricultural manpower planning and research -
are expected to be undertaken in connection with the preparation and
implementation of projects. Special studies have also been initiated on
agricultural pricing, energy conservation, manpower development, and urban
plarnning and management in Shanghai.
49.       The Bank's lending operations will concentrate on the Government's
priority sectors. In energy, the Bank's efforts will help to increase the
supply of fuel and power. One petroleum project at the country's largest
and most productive oilfield, Daqing, would mainly help develop new reserves
and introduce enhanced recovery techniques, while another at Dongpu would
comprise both development and exploration. Other operations are proposed to
support hydroelectric power generation and the development of underground
coal mines. In another key sector, transportation, the proposed project
would assist China in expanding and modernizing three ports, since the port
subsector is expected to play a vital role in China's efforts to speed
development through the import of foreign goods and technology, as well as
to increase export earnings. Work has also begun on a first railways
project, which would help increase capacity for transporting coal from mines
in Shanxi Province to the east coast cities and ports. In the industrial
sector, the Bank is assisting the China Investment Bank, which will
contribute to the expansion and modernization of light industry on the basis
of systematic project evaluation. In agriculture, a second project would
help develop uncultivated land in Heilongjiang for the production of various
grains. Under a project being presented simultaneously with the proposed
project, the Bank would support agricultural education and research, which
together can provide much needed skilled agricultural manpower and the basis
for further increases in yields. Another education project would support
expansion of the TV university and a pilot program of basic colleges. Based
on government requests for project assistance over the next few years, the
Bank expects to continue emphasizing the energy and transport sectors,
followed by agriculture, education and industry.



- 13 -
50.       To complement the Bank's efforts in economic and sector work and
operations, the EDI has organized courses and seminars aimed at improving
national economic management, sectoral planning, and project selection and
implementation. EDI's FY82/83 China program covers national economic
management; regional development; general project planning; power, urban and
transport projects; transport planning and policy; and development banking.
PART III - THE PORT SUBSECTOR /1
China's Major Ports
51.       China's 15 major ports handled almost 220 million tons of cargo
traffic in 1980. The largest port, Shanghai, handled about 40% of this
cargo; Huangpu and Tianjin handled about 5% each. The three principal bulk
cargo ports are Dalian, Qinhuangdao and Qingdao, which together account for
about 35% of total port throughput. The remaining nine ports handle only
about 11% of the total throughput. The almost 9% p.a. growth in port
traffic from 1975 to 1980 reflects the vast increase in foreign trade, with
import traffic more than doubling and export traffic increasing by over 80%.
Domestic (coastal) traffic also increased significantly over the same period
and in 1980 accounted for two thirds of the traffic through the 15 major
ports.
52.       Shanghai is one of the world's largest ports, with a total of 95
berths in 14 terminals. One of the latter was built to handle containerized
cargo but is not yet functioning as planned; a second container terminal is
under construction. Shanghai is an estuarial port situated on the Jluangpu
River and connected to the East China Sea through the Chang Jiang estuary.
Siltation of the estuary entrance is very heavy and three bars constitute
additional obstacles to the flow of traffic. Arrangements have been made for
lighterage of larger bulk ships, since only half of the berths can accommo-
date vessels over 10,000 dwt. Road access is now adequate though
improvements will be necessary to cope with the anticipated increase in
container traffic and will be carried out and financed by the Shanghai
Municipality.
53.       The Shanghai port serves China's main industrial center.  In 1980,
the port handled almost 85 million tons of cargo, over one fifth of which
was foreign trade. General cargo traffic amounted to over 20 million tons,
about one fourth of which was containerizable (only a very small proportion
of the foreign cargo is actually containerized). Traffic enters Shanghai
port by coastal or river shipping, road and rail. Containerized cargo
entering the port leaves as break bulk by both road (short-haul traffic) and
rail.
/1  Detailed information on the other transport subsectors can be found in
Annex F of report No. 3391-CHA, entitled "China: Socialist Economic
Development."



- 14 -
54.       Huangpu is South China's largest port, with 2 terminals and a
total of 12 berths, plus a turther .3 still being developed. The port is
situated close to the Zhujiang estuary, about 130 km northwest of Hong Kong,
and it is connected to the South China Sea by a navigation channel. Two
bars at the port's entrance necessitate routine dredging. The port is well
served by railways with connections to the hinterland; an existing, heavily
used road serves both terminals. This road is being widened now, and its
improvement will be completed by June 1983. Storage facilities and most
utilities are adequate; telecommunications need some modification.
55.       The port of Huangpu serves Guangzhou and its environs.  In 1980,
it handled 12.1 million tons of cargo, about 40% of which was foreign trade.
Coal traffic has suffered a temporary decline and amounted to 1.7 million
tons in 1980. General cargo amounted to 3.4 million tons. Most cargo
arrives in Huangpu port by coastal and river shipping and railways. The
latter mode will continue to handle coal shipments, while general cargo will
be handled as break bulk and will mainly be transported by road.
56.       Tianjin is located 120 Km southeast of Beijing and both cities are
served by the port situated at the mouth of the Hai River. The port has 18
berths and a further 11 are under construction. The entrance channel is
liable to heavy siltation. Connections to Tianjin include two rail lines
and two highways, and a third highway is under construction; road and rail
links also extend from Tianjin to Beijing. The port's storage facilities
and utilities are adequate.
Di.       Tianjin's port is located in China's second largest concentration of
economic activity. The port's hinterland is an important agricultural area,
where natural resources abound. The port is likely to become even more
important in the future, with foreign trade from activities in the surround-
ing area projected to increase by 8-10% per year. In 1980, it handled
11.9 million tons of cargo, almost three quarters of which was foreign
trade. General cargo amounted to 5.4 million tons, over 40% of which was
containerizable. Most shipments to Tianjin are by rail or road; container-
ized cargo is shipped only by road. Tianjin and Beijing, together with the
surrounding province of Hebei, are proposing to establish a joint transport
company to move container cargo by road between Tianjin and the Beijing
industrial center, where they are also planning to construct a container
terminal.
Port Constraints
58.       Several shortcomings in the ports subsector are now apparent.
One is the inadequacy of the major ports to handle growing container
traffic. China's attempts to develop a domestic capability for manufac-
turing port container equipment have encountered problems and some of the
equipment at major ports remains inoperative. Moreover, little attention
has been given to provision of equipment for transporting containers by rail



- 15 -
or handling them at rail terminals.  Container operations can be even more
technically and economically successful, however, if an integrated,
intermodal systems approach is followed.  This approach would allow China to
realize the full benefits, in terms of cost savings (and hence the
competitiveness of its exports), from container facilities being built at
its major ports.
59.       A significant proportion of cargo moving through congested ports
such as iHuangpu and Shanghai is transshipment cargo. Attention needs to be
given to direct delivery of more cargo and use of vessels that can be utilized
for both kinds of water-borne transport; in particular, the use of ocean-going
barges should be investigated. Furthermore, much of the rapidly growing
traffic at the three major ports originates from, or is destined for, places
that could be effectively served by rail, or coastal or inland water
connections through other national or provincial ports. Access to all the
major ports is restricted by channel depths, so that capital and maintenance
dredging cost of ports and their approaches is very high; but many of these
minor ports have equal or better depth than the major ports and are less
congested. Whether they offer more economic opportunities for expansion
would need to be determined as part of a national review of the port
subsector.
60.       Some aspects of port operations could be improved through the
introduction of better management techniques. Many of the delays in port are
caused by the lack of timely information, such as manifests and cargo plans.
Furthermore, data on traffic and operations are not standardized among ports,
or even among sections of the same port.  The collection, storage and analysis
of operational information would permit improved management and decision
making at all levels. In general, the roles of modern integrated physical,
operational and managerial controls, and the methods for introducing them, are
little understood.
Government Policy
61.       The Government is promoting investments in the transport sector
to prevent it from becoming a serious constraint to the country's economic
development.  Its present policies emphasize consolidation and better use of
the existing system rather than major expansion. While this approach
appears adequate for rail and roads, its suitability for the ports subsector
requires further assessment.
62.       The Government recognizes that ports in particular play an import-
ant role in the transfer of resources between northern and southern China,
as well as in providing access to foreign markets and to foreign sources of
plant, equipment and technology. During the last five years, coal traffic
through Huangpu and containerizable cargo traffic through the three major
ports has grown rapidly. Moreover, further increases are anticipated as
agriculture and light industrial production, as well as coal consumption,
continues to rise.  The existing port facilities are inadequate to cope with
this expected traffic. The Government has therefore approved major
investment programs to modernize and expand facilities at the three major



- 16 -
ports in order to meet demand until the mid-1980s.  It is also developing
buLk terminals at other ports. Some access channel dredging is being
carried out at these ports as part of the general improvement program, and
high tides will be utilized as much as possible to get the larger ships to
nelw, deeper berths.
63.       Over the longer term, the Government recognizes the need to develop
a national port strategy to address some of the particular constraints of
this subsector. The Ministry of Communications (MOC) has begun work on a
national port development plan that will include economic projections,
forecast traffic movements, and take into account intermodal transfers. To
provide some of the technical and economic inputs for the plan, it is
carrying out surveys and analyses of existing ports and potential sites, as
we:Ll as estuarial studies of the approaches to the ports of Shanghai,
Huangpu and Tianjin. The results of these studies should allow the MOC to
identify the least cost dredging alternative and attain maximum utilization
of new berths.
64.       The Government is aware of the inability of its major ports, as
well as other parts of the transport system, to handle containerized cargo.
Moreover, its new economic policies will affect the structure of the
transport sector through increased emphasis on light industry and agricul-
tural production, which implies a lower growth rate for the transport of
bulk commodities such as ores and steel than for light industry products and
foodstuffs. The latter products are usually well suited to transport in
containers. The Government, however, has at present no plans for developing
container transport by rail, and container transport by road is only taking
place through local schemes, such as the Tianjin-Beijing container develop-
ment (para. 57).
Port Organization and Administration
65.       The MOC has overall responsibility for operations at the 15 major
ports. It controls them largely through four of its water transport
departments: Operations, Planning, Port Supervision, and Capital
Cornstruction. Each major port has a Harbor Administration Bureau (HAB),
which is a separate entity responsible for the management of all onshore
port facilities. The HABs, although directly under the control of the Water
Transport Opera!tions Department of the MOC, are also supervised by the local
people's government in the areas of administration, business, technical
matters and finance. Specifically, each HAB is in charge of all cargo
handling operations through several port operating districts, administration
and security, as well as the educational, health and welfare services
provided for workers and their families. It is responsible for the port's
maintenance and repair workshops, which keep the equipment in operating
condition; the port's construction unit maintains civil works. Maneuvering
and berthing in port are also regulated by the HABs. The HAB's Director is
expected to maintain a regular dialogue on port operations with interested



- 17 -
parties such as city and provincial governments and state agencies, in order
to ensure that port user needs are met. A Harbor Superintendency
Organization (HSO) is established under the MOC in each port. The HSO is
responsible for the standards of ship operations in the approaches to and
within the port and general ship traffic control. The MOC, through its
regional design institutes, construction bureaus and waterways bureaus,
provides construction designs, civil works and port access channel dredging,
respectively, for each port.
66.       Budgets.  The HABs prepare annual targets for various operating
indicators such as traffic throughput and average utilization rate for cargo
handling equipment. From these data, an operating financial plan is
prepared and a net profit projected. Once approved by MOC and the Ministry
of Finance this plan constitutes a port's operating budget. Some budget
flexibility is allowed, such as transfers between items (except wages).
Supplementary budgets can be approved by MOC and the Ministry of Finance.
67.       Additions to, and replacements of, port assets are covered by
separate budgets (capital plans). Major capital construction works, as well
as the cost of maintenance dredging, are financed from MOC sources. To meet
these costs, much of the ports' depreciation and net revenue is remitted
directly to the MOC; on average the three major ports retain less than 15%
of their net revenues.
68.       Costs and Tariffs.  The levels of operating costs at the three major
ports appear to be reasonable (not more than 55% of total revenue in 1980).
No costing system exists, however, that allows the unit cost of individual
port services such as wharfage and storage to be calculated. Tariffs for
these services are determined by the MOC in consultation with the Ministry of
Finance; few are cost based. Most current rates were set in 1978 and those
applicable to foreign ships and import cargo were set slightly lower than
comparable international charges at Hong Kong.
69.       Accounting, even at the three major ports, is entirely manual; no
mechanical or electronic data processing equipment is used. Management
accounting consists of monthly key indices and capital construction progress
statements. Revenue, handling costs and administrative expenses are
examined quarterly and compared with budgets. Financial bureaus
representing the Ministry of Finance conduct a continuous external audit of
port operations, but no annual audit report is prepared for the MOC.
Port Organizational Reforms
70.       In line with the Government's overall policy of allocating more
decision-making power and responsibility to individual enterprises, the
Government will make different operational entities within the ports
accountable for their production results, which should lead to improved
operational efficiency. To do this it will separate port administration



- 18 -
from port operations. Individual port operating districts (or groups
thereof) would be organized into a number of cargo-handling corporations
(CHCs) and maintenance and repair workshops into workshop corporations.
71.       The CHCs would be independent legal entities directly under the
MOC. The CHCs would assume the present operational and accounting functions
of the port operating districts, but they would have direct financial and
legal responsibility for production results to MOC, rather than indirect
responsibility via the HAB. The CHCs would own land, berths, buildings and
equipment, and they could enter into contractual arrangements with other
corporations. The HAB would retain responsibility for administration and
common port services such as pilotage, towing, dredging in port, and port
security. Moreover, the HAB would have to endorse any CHC development
projects that have effects beyond the CHC, as well as land acquisition,
before these are referred to MOC for approval.
72.       The first four CHCs were established in principle in 1980 in
Dalien, Tianjin, Shanghai and Huangpu. The Dalien CHC was vested with full
legal powers and responsibilities in January 1982, and the three other CHCs,
as well as an additional CHC for coal handling in Huangpu, will become
operational by the completion of the proposed project. Further CHCs will be
established gradually to avoid significant disruption of port operations and
so that the MOC can learn from its experience with the initial CHCs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
73.       In July 1980, the Government requested the Bank's assistance in
financing its ports investment program. The proposed project was prepared
by the Government and Bank staff; it was appraised by Bank staff in July
1981. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3653-CHA, dated October 14, 1982) is
being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are given in Annex
III of this report. Negotiations were held in Washington in March and
September 1982 with a government delegation led by Mr. Ge Fucun, Director
of External Finance, Ministry of Finance.
Project Objectives and Description
74.       The proposed project would increase the capacity and reduce the
cost of cargo handling at China's three major ports - Huangpu, Shanghai and
Tianjin. It would reduce unproductive ship time by providing additional
beriths and high productivity cargo handling equipment. Efficient operation
of the project facilities would be promoted through training programs.
Longer term improvements a,id efficiency would be sought through a study of
the potential for developing container transport in the ports' hinterlands.



- 19 -
75.       The physical facilities provided by the project, whose components
incorporate standard designs, are briefly described below:
(a) Huangpu coal terminal: construction of a 440-meter coal
wharf and a 400-meter quay for barge loading of coal;
procurement of coal handling equipment; dredging of the
required basin; land reclamation, buildings, highway and
railway bridges, and ancillary works for the terminal.
(b) Huangpu container terminal: construction of a 470-meter
container wharf; procurement of container handling equipment;
dredging of the required basin; land reclamation, a railway
container freight station (CFS), a roadway CFS, ancillary
buildings and infrastructure.
(c) Shanghai container terminal: construction of a 424-meter
container wharf; procurement of container handling equipment;
dredging of the required basin; land acquisition and
reclamation; a roadway/barge CFS, ancillary buildings and
infrastructure; an auxiliary transfer station about 2 km
from the container terminal, with roadway CFS, container
yard and ancillary facilities.
(d) Tianjin container terminal: construction of a 890-meter
container wharf; procurement of container handling equipment;
dredging of the required basin and the channel; land reclamation,
a railway CFS, a roadway CFS, ancillary buildings and infra-
structure.
The project would also include the design and supervision of construction for
these project facilities.
76.       Training.  To avoid start-up problems and assure smooth operation
of the project terminals, personnel would need training in operating
procedures for coal and container handling operations. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Government would carry out an agreed
program of training for personnel operating the project terminals (Section
3.05 and Schedule 2, Part E of the draft Loan Agreement).
77.       Containerization Study.  As part of the project and in order to
address the current port constraints mentioned above (para. 58), the
Government has agreed to carry out a containerization study of the
hinterlands of the three project ports (Schedule 2, Part F, of the draft
Loan Agreement). The study would identify the inland intermodal terminals,
other facilities, and transport equipment required to take advantage of the
door-to-door transport potential of containerized cargo through the project
ports. The Government will discuss with the Bank the terms of
reference for the study and exchange views with the Bank on the progress
and findings of the study. The study will be completed by December 1984.



- 20 -
Project Cost and Financing
78.       The total project cost is estimated at $427.4 million, including
contingencies and customs duty of about 15% ($15.8 million), which will be
levied on imported equipment. The foreign exchange component (excluding
customs duty) amounts to $125.5 million (about 29% of the project cost net
of customs duties). The proposed loan of $124.0 million (28% of the project
cost net of duties) would cover the foreign exchange cost of purchasing
and installing equipment. The remainder of the foreign exchange costs ($1.5
million for training) would be financed by the Government. The Government
would finance all local costs (about $301.9 million). The Government also
requested Bank assistance to arrange grant financing for training of port
design engineers for both container and bulk cargo facilities, and the
Government of Norway has agreed to finance such training as part of its
ongoing program of bilateral assistance to China.
79.       Cost estimates for civil works are based on final designs and unit
prices for similar ongoing works in China; those for equipment are based on
reaent purchases. Estimates are in September 1982 prices. Physical contin-
gencies of 10% have been included for civil works at all terminals except the
Huangpu container terminal, for which only 5% is included because it is at an
advanced stage of construction. Based on discussions with the Government,
price contingencies for all civil works and local costs assume an annual price
increase of 6%. Price contingencies for foreign direct costs assume an
annual price increase of 8% for 1982 and 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985, and
6% for 1986.
Project Implementation
80..      Civil works would be implemented by the MOC's regional construction
bureaus and supervised by engineers from the respective HAB and the MOC. Con-
struction work has begun on the container-wharves at all three ports and on
the coal berth at Huangpu. Civil works and equipment installation are
expected to be completed by the end of 1986.
Procurement and Disbursement
81.       Cargo handling equipment would be grouped in appropriate bidding
packages and procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Small items, amounting to less than
$200,000 per contract up to a total of $1,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded after evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited
from at least three qualified suppliers. During negotiations a list of such
items was agreed with the Bank. Bidding packages subject to international
competitive bidding would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation and proposed contract award. In bid evaluation, qualified
domestic manufacturers would be given a margin of 15% or the actual customs
duties, whichever is lower, over foreign bidders. Tender documents would
specify pre- or postqualification requirements; conditions for either would be
agreed with the Bank. During negotiations, procurement arrangements, as well
as the schedules for construction, procurement and equipment installation,
were discussed with the Government.



- 21 -
82.       The proposed loan of $124 million equivalent would be for 100% of
the total foreign exchange cost of equipment and its installation. Dis-
bursement is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.
Completion Report and Economic Impact Study
83.       In addition, to the normal project completion report MOC will
instruct each of the container CHCs to carry out economic cost-benefit
analyses on the impact of their operations on general cargo handling in
their respective ports. These economic analyses will be carried out at the
end of the first and fourth years following completion of the project.
Audit
84.       During negotiations, assurances were obtained that each project
CHC will maintain appropriate records, accounts and financial statements.
The CHCs' accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year will be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Within six months
of the end of each fiscal year, the Government will cause each project CHC
to furnish to the Bank its certified financial statements and audit reports
(Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Financial Evaluation
85.       The project ports are efficiently operated and a reasonable level
of budgetary control is achieved through the use of annual financial plans
based upon operational targets. During 1978-80 the highest working ratio
achieved was 57, but ratios below 50 resulted in most years, which is a very
commendable performance. At present, the ports remit a large proportion of
their annual net revenue to the MOC. These resources are used by MOC in
part to finance capital works and procure major equipment (para. 67). The
MOC is now considering alternative procedures that would provide greater
incentive for ports to make efficient use of their financial resources.
86.       Forecast income and expenditure accounts for 1978-86 for Huangpu,
Shanghai and Tianjin (which include revenue from harbor dues and HSO harbor
services, as well as the expenditures incurred in collecting harbor dues and
providing harbor services) give the following forecast working ratios:
Huangpu 51% to 56% during 1981-84, increasing to around 55% by 1986; Tianjin
53% to 58% during 1981-84, increasing to around 58% by 1986; and Shanghai
50% to 52% during 1981-84, remaining at 52% through 1986. The above working
ratios are satisfactory.
87.       Cash flow forecasts for 1981-86 show that current ratios (2.4-3.5
at Shanghai, and between 4.3 and 8.0 at Huangpu and Tianjin) are adequate.
If the loan were to be shown in the ports' accounts, in 1986 the debt/equity
ratios would be 13/87 for Huangpu, 8/92 for Shanghai and 10/90 for Tianjin;
and the debt interest coverages would be 3.7 for Huangpu, 21.7 for Shanghai
and 6.3 for Tianjin. These ratios are satisfactory.



- 22 -
88.       Forecasts of cash resources derived by MOC from the project ports,
the proceeds of the proposed loan and the forecast disposition of these
resources in the execution of the proposed project show that the difference
between total project cost and the proposed bank loan will be met from surplus
revenues and depreciation funds remitted to MOC by the three project ports.
In addition, using these remittances, MOC could finance the containerization
study, channel maintenance dredging at the project ports, and the proposed
loan service charges. Even after these expenditures MOC will have a remaining
Y 285 million available over the six-year period to meet capital investment
needs other than the proposed project.
89.       A sensitivity analysis of a decline in cash available to MOC during
1982-86 in the event of (i) operating expenses exceeding estimates by 5%
annually; (ii) revenues falling by 5% annually due to lower than forecast
traffic growth; and (iii) proposed project costs increasing by 10% overall
during 1982-86 shows a decrease of about Y 260 million during 1982-86 in the
surplus of funds remitted by the project ports to MOC. This would eliminate
all but Y 25 million of the Y 285 million available for other capital
investment.
90.       The Government (MOC) will be responsible for all investment costs
and for servicing the Bank loan out of surplus monies received trom the
pro-ject ports. However, the port organizational reforms now in progress
(paras. 70-72) will make the CHCs the primary organizational and economic/
finaLncial entities for the purposes of project implementation, and hence
their performance will be the object of the Bank's project dialogue with the
Government. To assure an adequate basis for this dialogue, the Government
agreed that it would provide the Bank with tinancial and operational
information as follows:
(a)  Financial Reporting.  For each project CHC, the following
will be provided annually: the Funds Balance Sheet, the
Statement of Fixed Assets; the Statement of Special Funds
and Appropriations; the Statement of CHC Handling Cost; and
the Statement of Profit; and
(b)  Operational Reporting.  For each project CHC, monthly data on the
following will be collected and then provided annually:
(i) tonnage and containers handled and stored, and percentage
of break bulk cargo and containers transported in and out
by rail, road and waterway; and
(ii)  ship arrivals; ship waiting time; berth time vacant; berth
time occupied, unworkable; berth time occupied, workable,
but unworked; berth time occupied, worked; gang and crane
time total; and gang and crane time idle.



- 23 -
91.        Sound performance in the reform process requires that the project
CHCs generate adequate resources to cover their operating costs.  During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that, for each fiscal year starting
with 1986, the Borrower will take, or cause each project CHC to take, such
measures as shall be necessary to ensure that each project CHC-s total
expenditure (excluding depreciation) shall not exceed 50% of the CHC's total
revenue (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
92.       As described earlier (para. 68), the MOC has no costing system to
determine the unit costs of individual services. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Borrower will cause each project CHC to
carry out a study of the annual operating costs it incurs during at least its
first full year of operation, and will exchange views with the Bank on the
terms of reference and findings of each such study (Section 4.06 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
93.        The Government's investment program for China-s three major ports
has been designed to alleviate their main operating constraints and meet
demand through the mid-1980s.  Under the proposed project, the provision of
high productivity equipment and facilities to handle containers and coal
shipments would allow cargo handling costs and unproductive ship turnaround
time to be reduced.  By relieving congestion at the project ports, it would
also reduce diversion of carriers to other ports. These factors would allow
port throughput to increase substantially, generating considerable revenues
for the Government (MOC). In addition, as part of the project, the Government
would carry out a study of the complementary facilities needed to handle
containerized cargo transported inland in order to reap the full benefits from
the project facilities provided at its major ports.
94.        An attempt has been made to identify the primary beneficiaries of
the port improvements and to estimate the economic rates of return for indi-
vidual facilities.  The main direct beneficiaries from the proposed project
would be ship operators (79%), cargo owners (14%), and the ports (7%). If 60%
of total containerized traffic is assumed to be carried on Chinese-controlled
ships and all benefits on import cargo accrue to China, the direct Chinese
share of benefits from the container berths would be about 62% of the total,
with the remainder accruing to foreign ship and cargo owners.  If all benefits
from the Huangpu coal berth accrue to China, the direct Chinese share of the
combined benefits from all the project berths would amount to about 70% of the
total.
95.       The weighted economic rate of return on the main project components,
including training, is 29%. The economic rates of return for individual
project components are 39% for the Huangpu coal terminal; 39% for the Huangpu
container terminal; 23% for the Shanghai container terminal; and 21% for the
Tianjin container terminal. A sensitivity analysis shows that even with a 15%
increase in project costs and a 25% decrease in benefits, the project would
still have an economic rate of return of 20%.



- 24 -
96.       Implementation risks for the project's physical facilities are
smal'l. All the components involve proven technology. Moreover, the MOC,
Harbor Administration Bureaus at all three project ports, has successfully
undertaken large-scale port construction and has the necessary expertise to
managSe project implementation. Managerial and technical expertise in
container handling operations is currently limited in China, but problems with
cor.tainer operations in the early years would be greatly reduced through the
stafi training provided by the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTdORITY
97.       The draft Loan Agreement between the People½s Republic of China and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
98.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. A special condition of effectiveness is that China-s State Council shall
have approved the Loan Agreement.
99.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
100.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
October 14, 1982
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA *                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                  -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            9561.0                                               MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    3184.0                      1960  /b    1970 /b        ESTIMATE lb   ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (0S$)                            ..              ..          290.0              261.4                    890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)             559.9          434.9           733.6/c            448.7                    701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    672865.0           815253.0        976735.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)           ..            12.0           13.2               17.3                     32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                     1245.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                       1570.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                                  2070
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. EM.                               70.4           85.3           100.9              158.1                   255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND            211.8          253.7           302.9              355.9                  1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                                   '               ''           32.3               36.8                    39.9
15-64 YRS.                                   ..              ..           63.7               59.7                    56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                            ..              ..            4.0                3.5                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                      2.0            1.9             1.8ld              2.0                      2.3
URBAN                                       ..              ..            2.8                3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)             40.1/e, g       39.61g         21.11g             29.3                     31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)             13.6/e, g        9.6/R          7.51g             11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTLON RATE                        ..             ..             1.41g             2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (EHOUSANDS)               ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..              ..             ..               19.3                    36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)                    ..          100.0           117.0              108.1                   115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                           86.0/e            . .         103.0               97.3                   106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                  58.o7-            * *          62.6               56.9                    54b.
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                 ..              ..           26.0               20.0                    13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE               ..              ..            4.5/h             10.9                      6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)              ..              ..           64.0/h             57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                     ..              ..           56.0/h             89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATIOE)
TOTAL                                       ..              ..             ..               32.9                    32.0
URBAN                                       ..              ..              ..              70.7                     51.9
RURAL                                       ..              ..             ..               22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                       ..              ..             ..               18.1                     37.7
URBAN                                       ..              ..             ..               72.7                    65.7
RURAL                                       ..              ..             ..                4.7                    24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  3009.8/e,i    1709.1/i         1096.2/i           3297.8                  8540.4
POPULLATION PER NHRSING PERSON            2847.I/e,f       538.8/f        483.2/f          14929.3                  4829.1
POPULATION PER iOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                   2142.5/e *      737.8           492.8             1100.4                  1047.5
URBAN                                       ..              ..          172.1              30S.3                   651.6
RUNAL                                       ..              ..          702.3             5815.7                  2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                   ..              ..              ..                ..                     27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                       ..              ..
URBAN                                       ..              ..
RURAL                                       ..              ..             ..                 ..
AVERAGE NLMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                       ..              ..
URBAh                                       ..              ...
RURAL                                       ..              ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                       ..              ..
lRBAN                                       ..              ..             ..
RURAL                                       ..              ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA *                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV;EAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b        ESTIMATE /b   ASIA S PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDLCATION
ADJUSIED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                       102.0          103.0           118.0                97.4                     96.2
MALE                          ..              ..           111.0/k            101.0                      99.8
FEMALE                        ..              ..           114.0/k             87.8                     92.1
SECONDARY:   POTAL                           ..              ..            79.0               53.0                     37.6
MALE                          ..              ..            92.0               63.8                      41.1
FEMALE                        ..              ..            65.0               41.3                     34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (3 OF SECONDARY)             ..              ..             2.4                1.7                     20.8
PLPIL-TEALHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                      ..              ..            27.0               37.7                     35.5
SECONDARY                                    ..              ..            19.0               20.2                     25.0
ADELT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)                   ..             ..            66.0               52.1                      73.1
CUNSEMPEION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                   ..              ..              ..                1.5                      9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATIuN                                   ..              ..              ..               35.4                    116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                   ..              ..              ..                3.2                     37.6
NEWSPAPER ("LAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOLSAND POPULATION                            ..              ..              ..               16.4                      53.7
CINEMA AbNNAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA            ..              ..              ..                3.6                      2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOESANEDS)          234602.4/c,j  339960.5/y    403163.1/j
FEMALE (PERCENT)                             ..              ..              ..               29.5                     33.6
ACRICULTLRE (PERCENT)                        ..              ..            71.0               70.0                     52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                           ..              ..            17.0               15.0                     17.9
PARTICIPAT1ON RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                        37.0/e          41.7            41.8               40.0                     38.5
MALE                                           ..              ..              . .              51.8                     50.5
FEMALE                                         ..              ..              .2. 23.8                                  26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENUENCY RATIO                        ..              ..             0.9                 i.0                      1.1
INCOME DISTRIBCTlON
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..              .
HIRHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..              .
EOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..              ..              ..
LCUEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLM;ATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (1S$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                        ..              ..              ..              133.8                    194.7
RIRAL                                        . .             . .             . .             111.5                    155.1
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
LRdAN                                        ..              ..              ..                 ..                    178.2
RUIAL                                        ..              ..              ..                 ..                    164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELCW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UREAN                                        ..              ..              ..               43.8                     24.4
?LCKAL                                       ..              ..              ..               51.7                     41.1
Not avaIlable.
Not applicable.
NOTES
All data exclude Tai-an, China.
/'a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
a-ong che indicators depends on av-ilability Of data and En not unifPr..
'lb    less otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer tn any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
end 1971; and fEr Mont Recent Estimate, between 1978 and [980.
;c   Cnantrv estimate is 644 kilogram  of coal equivalent.
,n   Latest estimate of anrual growth of popolat.ln is 1.2%.
Se   1957; /f Including barexfot doctors; /g Bank crode birth and death rate estimates for 1979 were higher
than the official data. The official rates have been adjusted accordingly; /h Sank demographic analyses
utilize a higher estimate of the crode mortality rate than the 6.2 that is officially given. The values
cf infsnt and child mcrtality shown here, based on the Rank-s analysen, are thus higher than use of the
aEfficil figeres woald Indicate; and the estimate here of life expectancy is lower than the official
flgRe- of o8.2 years; /i Excluding traditional medical doctors.
i .ncluding mllt.rp pery onnel and those awaiting permanent jobs, most or whom are in temporary jobs; /k 1977.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 3 of6
efrete...s. esfol  so de-orc  order  of nagniocdn, fodireteretds. and                     -aaceoe  erin  nalo  diffe--er-o-ai
Th.rnfre            ...gooparel)res1     rc      rygopyfothe,obfert coseryatdfli2  asou-try 9arrsonirhsom-hanMhigheraneragrint-eh-rthrcscnr-y groc
of9teabrtctrr    eoetfr                   Hg   ILrLr    Oil. E."ortere   roor "here  ''h1ddl  Iol- Nrh Afri   an_d Middle fat'Is chsn                  Ie s   f srne
set to-colc-oref affisotlee).   in te reference  group date the aner_ ge _r  popole....onseig-d enithuetic rn  for eah indicator  and shown only when
an  tntd      ior,nIoonatbenri.                    dnri.og..e.sfoetoi-trNIote. h-eoeeenr  olnsfloooyre Trnico
1-E d ltoonen   sq-.f-Poslnio-mrnoat-l -d   total, urlart, and r-P-inna  onfoe
toGN    np.petoIIsaro  end kitchen1  greento riln;1979 dunn                                          hnbiltsttn   enes.dola --_r. e...anlisth_nt  pe__ae_ty seffd
AN? Pif  0207k bu -GiI per neptenotste   a L-        ,nrent1lLI  -ette  pricrs   a!-             die "tte   r   o   nidd -          sroii   hop rais   doeng ,1inlide trlt It
ciceh   eecneso.dttda   of 1980 dieo fatH78    hanbtof,; 1960,                                   ard  _edicl  rnnerfPeeaetyrie    yapoiirIsi
iOu, and iNtl deta-                                                        ree~~~~dico   nasI e   os -,-  edsife. err.  ohich offet     nptecaoio
emeif  thtrtntt rh  olmno -dono  nnnmpoor  f  onaocot eeoo Ioelticf  ropome  sonohoeo_ae  rrine  aOsitoc_nlpgenra  onpitds
andiintptrin. n-oe  -no.hdo.clnedgeoneeerle-                                                          cdcenhopoai               mcioroeksi-nlsandeice,i-rmser
iro  horn-I,i ditided by eheonbern en
Po-e  Popociasio, NMil-Pane fer-eadol  -. oof JItI  I; IN6t. 1970. and 1980                     HOUtih
dare-Ldoroge Sie of tosetold  Peeso- pe- b-teetIdI)-   et   r ,ndrri
nsonecnnnresr iit   I.97.0          _     _rfltdno                                                 shboeef_ iroaesocior_                   se
Pejo rio  yate0oor9ior sor Ot  rde-. nonrrteen.thorn-teets                                                                                   _ysn-  onoccoped  pacrI
tllf -np                                                                                         -htrct.ooteitrcttyeorrptejcselcsc diceorpe refonigp- ti,ttadoa-
lePe-         ioaoofepeoctklttgo"                             Sern2hpee                            oserlondnlr-nroicrctnoiin._rer                                       - eresg
P-jLc-I pdrl,           P'                                                      P--Is~~~~~~~~niot  1  otn .- 000, Iee  Ostorsra rtnt
feritiy  ecotooroscoeletledoerfniirierirperorroc
eocrcnotriirtocsooo-ednor   Onene  ino onbinnonreofeorcolcr  cockniI
deig tlttirertIoyrjotio   prpopa.kdostdfrntroIdeto
hcL_pj7y2y2iooto_         i  a0sftLPncpiteooeerirdne inoedIL ineei-coo-ooetelnrdrooriroont-ci.eladf
IItI ocbrl dli -     noosefeoieforlh-ttp                         I  -eerrelen~-                 heniarcoo-ortnaloderoe-o -eanhoannar
rent fete                                                                                    edocanloornqo-~,d  lt  _    ,  I_ _ ,  -  -iremI nerIrt.    fears of errorpfse   t-sseo-ion
Iersneoo           ThrcniorI_rereI        roroehssIlnnypitito                                       rton    eerincrttt.rotfereansgndecrosfts-l
sine  ou  ho reched-                                                 nneildotdcotfeartnfor;-oeonpnrdececooesn  acennerolg
roonLpo  --Den-nici                                                                               esclslbld.pl
iern-kn.Nsd-coropolttnsreotsor   Osnea,,  dil  hcereid VroinnrritetercndifenodoeP-ocaissl  ietocoo
roeoee   OO,iPitdIiieo                                                                 nldaerlcl   ndsrol    erhrrgessfsfoeTsidetd
ioeLarfonrtttrnopprtceItId            nrs-lbd  Irotsnt.rteocoild                                    neeornefnoctL-rf-coY-ro,netadPI, icons                               IIodo   lily
h dr              1970foiod fo7iNSt- L,  tfPsteoon1970 d
-ori   19n 0 for MNh-hI, 97 fOIP,sd-.cNatd 0                                                            _omnn  mm  feIn"ohos- d  otl- -III-7 n---tege   aso~tn    ro
cornIer loo   ht   lIt  ndiN
lrdeetrntfeehosna   ons   oct  pohosednii-rorhdtAeenoepocrcnnpooeoofdtorsoeenoenIfren
htt       1960dototrrI        or5eo70toooteesn-onllber                                                rntnreerensront-rson-ne..hrrtpsrtteorne
taorrlrendotneprodoa-eop                   ncsrenoos-mato                                    eesn    ffr         toe...ce.rermpn.e...ooiaic
oiroy' a o,  n   .ol IG-rtergreod-osoih    oAdso  PLnt rrofse bt                                                          obd   nene
Fa   ...roo1-i   rcero     L mooot:fossodt           onol mnerof-cc,en-resfpoeh-sorpndietoro                                                 Th'rc boer   f rh-odcodsrrto
ofichroro    enorndensp19of50rrefeirieorp aeoottcpIhondcrooent7ceoeiesnrrrenr
ronosntyjpp4Gr-her   poe6nr_os1r96              oosri0rceeeeoD.e                                                 -rcof       a-tesesi  yontestnrasr,sr-ost   enlsffc
ate 5ofc "ol    te Po ..teL"ooon-eILL o-oeeotroo---ocrh           0r00c                CosMpTOr  icion   pshondroodin-hscetekce
6tlatr1960enrooaed    ..d                                                                 oleo 970e'    eeristcrrrspp80disnoteeroi
C'LdL,'d)                          lilth~~~-phtceon   eordpmrteopnror    enrenen                                                                     ,tpooni-   de- ed
rom0      965UO705                                                                           so e7ae-    tscrr-oe-don   fon tder-aei
OreId     tnioycer, -d I9r80                       of       noefpraptoncI                           lieonsoe_te-ootopeepg                    o_o0erNdc--he-Peo
proD-1cio   ooitn,c-    ed.d..n reop-rtccesesdio                                                    onsno,ey-re- -o  dtesnio
tnn 6col     19d0rr -srhsss   CoeddoceutonerupronAI s-ndsI res                              rdr...teodso
o _RnondA,oors      -cco        ,,ei-e nnrrcooroo1,Lrttenrn-fee.coffo
heeeeonloldd konroc  prcorotofro-cons-ekrae.n-rdebloo
-Lecaorrferd;         rncneohn             NIh    lP.ayidd;n                                 orlnhrorehroooef   cooici-nrto                             oro ricndo
rent  ner  es -maed  - ro  tned o  phetolgore  endn fe rrrolanc-nfth io as drrnI,                                  o  ty-    tho  forro  INhP,  NPnotOIfdts
-idnendisthro  L      css              odoteo    t  eor   o  nseo                                  o  elnroit   nre   ndAe  e  ecsroo Snrol leho -oec-
hooseold  onri1901  i  171 d n                ...1        d _d _ithl," ff70 ad-1990 Oor0--d    e
no,nrrtyr-d-          erdetL                          ...       d tspyoodrdfse gsr.    Ar-        orf biryeeoecLnadnno,-i-ofeersnroca
-oOd rood  o-no,   lotfHi  lope nodgif, daneiso  )heicots-IIIohi-
Lpind-ro  on  al  or   oi            - s      net per do-iOh-, ai        -197 ,r -hP   dte   INTen  llhtiocpro11                 ,,    L-lb                                      r
thfldle0ent-o  Oeo     P--tser lorhnod       tsI Oitoebt perebssR-i-                        PeL.oeoeoirtctot,setn-"rcnr                    gnec II-tceie             oethen
,Irbrpbh], N      L .hhnihf- ccrdo._Loronerreros'                                                                                     , nolee toor                   ,
fot io trisrt tkr 1fponna   . donp   drols                  -       I of --etuod t               Inrdotlop rryton   iro.h_poot-    labo- ndIcL nl
spcenmtossfrstotnr  lorrcorc otyn-potodcyo   Pto,crei    .  onrf steton tineoe   dosisennoi   oon, tosonrtia
loorcrrenr'rfctol   nth on  toO  rornlP-st idh cessonnoir ocets- -nenot-If Idbttf-
s~torstpplr                 ooc tcacoo--oecoc ncsecord                                   rooonionrneoo-aor    i    e                               rtp      cbsnrri
osarp-  rproed icrorthy O1'l dL dl nees                 hosbos-nnniarhtj -r                                             --f hohr    ott    c       ndry   ocetorotees.
poocorro   Onroe0sotic  ttanaifeac  st o  eba  Pose   frum      eons             EsPenAd_ioppieicoeroohnnote   nner, P   orekei7 -d23erf -rhI
redsre- otcese -o dsetrr  ehg            ooeceer-eoo             ,nfo         hnnrciPoctfooncn   otenrrisrrnett
doagroe tonrl,  -Ispend- o dinr1irdro,oro-oI...rRaoItion One  -to terc1nn-done                                                                                        -
Inn  r    rInc  -d it to..n.d
ir,eoronin r         -dotror   to -                    etodroro ,,   91 -5 97  t,nes Ilc d-  _.-        SRBT
to    oted to                       h-doO-- 0L-                     eft         d                                         f....  b-itO              d-Osb                        iL-
Popcletcnp   I-   - _         i__   tsi 0"0do   bcnaIoootso                                                                                   2000         hose eon        40ns -c
cnnI-nol-fd-r-otIey oi~                                                                                                                      oP -otonor itoteosonIo  Ocnh-ortst
Toy1 or sot TrI  orcIn 0 on   c tOen o                                                                                         hOV  , TARGEPhOOo?
solretefola.    rrtctro- so        Atoit-o -ot-n   prooo    -10  orh



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population: 977 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita:  US$290 (1980)
CHINA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual Growth (%) at Constant Prices
1957-70   1970-77   1978   1979   1980   1981
Production
Gross Output
Agriculture                      2.2       3.4       9.0    8.6    2.7    5.7
Light industry                   8.3       7.8      10.8    9.6   18.4   14.1
Heavy industry                  11.6       9.3      15.6    7.7    1.4   -4.7
Net Material Product (NMP)          5.2       4.8     12.4    7.0    6.9    3.0
1957    1970    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Prices
Retail price index (1970=100)  92.2   100.0   102.7   103.3    105.4   111.7   114.4
NMP deflator         (1970=100)  90.7   100.0    99.6   100.4    105.1   106.5   109.6
Exchange rate        (Y/US$)      2.46    2.46    1.83    1.66         1.54    1.50    1.71
Amount
1981                  Shares of GDP (2)              Average Annual Growth (%) at Constant Prices
National Accounts              ($ billion)   1957    1979    1981    1985    1990  1957-70  1970-79  1979-81  1981-85  1985-90
/a       /a        /a
GDP                           263.2       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    5.8           5.8       4.9       4.1      4.2
Agriculture                  91.4           ..    31.4    34.7    33.3    31.4    1.6          3.2       4.2       3.0      3.0
Industry                    115.5           ..    43.7    43.9    44.9    46.6   12.1          8.9       7.7      4.6       5.0
Other                        56.3          *-    25.0    21.4    21.8    22.0    3.5           4.3     -3.1        4.5      4.5
Consumption                   185.0        76.4    69.8    70.3    73.8    76.2    2.7           5.4       5.0       5.3       4.9
Investment                     76.5        23.2    31.1    29.1    27.5    25.0    9.8           6.8       2.1       2.6       2.3
Exports GNFS                   24.4         3.7/b   6.0/b   9.2        8.5    10.0    1.6/b    8.0/b   23.1          1.7       7.8
Imports GNFS                   22.7         3.5/b   7.0/b   8.6        9.8    11.2    2.3/b    9.47h    9.3          7.3       7.1
National savings               78.5        23.6/c  31.5    29.8    26.3    24.3         ..        ..       3.9       0.9       2.6
As % of GDP
Public Finance                                   1957          1979          1981
Current revenues (excluding foreign            28.7          27.3          21.7
borrowing)
Current expeniitures                           15.1          17.0          15.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                   +13.6          +10.3          +6.1
Capital expenditures                           13.7          15.6           8.5
Foreign borrowing                               0.7           0.9           1.8
Other Indicators                               1957-79   1979-81   1981-85   1985-90
GDP growth rate (%)                            5.4/d      4.9/d     4.1         4.2
GDP per capita growth rate (%)                 3.57d      3.6/d     2.8         3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (%)             8.3
ICOR                                          5.4          ..       6.3        6.2
Marginal savings rate                         0.42                 0.17       0.17
Import elasticity                              0.95      1.90      1.78       1.69
/a  NMP basis.
/b  Goods only.
/c  GDS.
/d  Based on the official real NMP index (as are all figures for past NMP and GDP growth in this data sheet).  At Indian
prices, GNP is estimated to have grown at 4.6% and GNP per capita at 2.7% during 1957-79.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population: 977 mil lion (mid-1980)
GNP per capita:  US$290 (1980)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                  Annual Growth Rates (2)
(million US$ at                              (at constant 1980 prices)
Indicator                       current prices)                   Actual                             Projected
1981             1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Externlal Trade
Merchandise exports                 22,027           10.1   25.5    16.8   15.9   -3.9   -0.8          1.7     6.9     7.7
Energy                            5,054              ..      ..      ..      ..  -45.2  -51.4  -86.7 -100.0          0
Other primary                      5,306             ..      ..      ..      ..    6.5       1.6     4.0     4.0     5.0
Mtanufactures                    10,533              ..      ..      ..      ..    9.7      9.7     9.7      9.7     9.0
Other                              1,134             ..      ..      ..      ..    5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0
Ferchandise imports                 20,292           32.6   21.7   16.7   -8.6         3.2    15.1     4.3     4.2     7.9
Food                              5,340              ..      ..      ..      ..    3.0      7.0      5.0     5.0     5.0
Petroleun                              0             ..      ..      ..      ..    0        0       0       -/a  107.6
Machinery and equipmenit          5,317              ..      ..      ..      ..    7.8      9.9     4.0      4.0     4.0
Other                             9,635              ..      ..      ..      ..    3.3   22.5       4.1      4.1     4.1
Prices
Export price index (1978=100)           ..          100.10  113.3  131.3  134.9  137.6  146.7  158.7  171.7  185.5
lmport price index (1978=100)           ..          100.0  119.4  139.2  145.5  149.4  158.8  170.4  182.6  195.1
Terms of trade index (1978=100)         ..          100.0   95.2   94.3   92.7   92.1    92.4   93.1   94.0   95.0
Composition of herchandise Trade (X)                   Average Annual increase (2)
(at current prices)                              (at constant prices)
1978    1979    1980    1981    1985    1990    1957-70  1970-79  1979-81   1981-85   1985-90
Exports                        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0            1.6       8.0       19.4       0.9        7.8
Energy                        13.8   19.5   25.1   22.9        0       0          ..        ..         ..       -/a       0
Other primary                 39.7   34.1   28.4   24.1   27.5   26.9             ..         ..        ..       4.0        5.0
Manufactures                  46.5   46.4   46.5   47.8   66.5   68.0             ..         ..        ..       9.7        9.0
Other                          0       0       0       5.2     6.0     5.1        ..        ..         ..       5.0        5.(
Imports                        100.0  110.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0            2.3       9.4        9.9       7.6        7.4
Food                            ..      ..      ..   26.3   23.7   24.8           ..        ..         ..       5.0        5.0
Petroleum                      0       0       (       0       2.9   10.7         ..       0         0          -/a      46.0
Machinery anid equipment   17.5   25.2   27.5   26.2   24.3   21.3                ..         ..        ..       6.4        4.0
Other                           ..      ..      ..   47.5   49.0   43.2           ..        ..         ..       9.9       4.1
Share of Trade With
Share of Trade W)ith           Share of Trade iith                Countries with Centrally
Industrial Countries (x)   Developing Countries (X)                 Planned Economies (2) /b
Direction of Trade              1978              1981         1978              1981                1978             1981
Exports                       37.3             45.9          51.6             50.2                11.1               3.9
Imports                       73.3             76.8          17.5             18.7                 9.2              4.5
/a  Petroleum imports in 1985 are projected to total US$961 million in 1981 constant prices.
/b  Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.



ANNEX I
Page of 6 of 6
Population: 977 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita: US$290 (1980)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                      Projected
Indicator                          1978    1979    1980    1981        1982    1985    1990
Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services        10,606  15,351  20,901  25,157   24,663  33,700  71,451
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.        9,607  13,658  18,492  22,027   21,585  29,037  70,166
Imports of goods and services        1l,912  17,582  23,946  23,628   24,928  38,848  75,509
of which: Merchandise c.i.f.       10,745  15,619  21,243  20,292   21,513  34,126  65,799
Net transfers                            597      656     640      467       617     767   1,017
Current account balance                -705  -1,575  -2,405   1,996         352  -4,381  -4,327
Private direct investment                  -       -       57      265      315      465      715
MLT loans (net)                        -830      822   1,756       769    1,278   z,773   5,536
Orticial                                ..      ..       ..             Z,198   3,231   5,546
Pr:Lvate                                ..      ..       ..              -920    -458      -1U
Other capital                            822   1,362   1,082    -787           U   1,143    -572
Change in net reserves ("- =
increase)                              708    -609    -490  -2,243   -1,945          0   1,353
International reserves                 6,283   6,892   7,382  10,096   12,041  12,041  18,164
of which:  gold                         ..      ..   5,120   5,120    5,120   5,120
Reserves as months imports               6.3     4.7      3.7      5.1      5.8      3.7      2.9
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements                       ..
Concessional loans                      ..
DAC                                   ..
OPEC
IDA
Other
Nonconcessional loans                   ..      ..
Official export credits               ..
IBRD /c
Other multilateral                   ..
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed          ..      ..   5,441   5,696
Official
Private
Undisbursed debt                        ..      ..
Debt service
Total service payments
Interest
Payments as % exports GNFS              ..      ..      5.0      7.8
Average interest rate on new
loaas (%)
Average maturity of new loans
(years)



ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1982)
Loan or                                                 $ million
Credit                                                --- Amount -----
Number     Year      Borrower        Purpose    IBRD   IDA    Undisbursed
2021       1981  People's Republic  Univ.        100.0  100.0       199.7
1167                of China          Develop-
ment
1261/a     1982  People's Republic  Agricul.              60.0       60.0
of China          Develop-
ment
Total                                            100    160         259.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   100.0  160.0
Total Undisbursed                                100.0  159.7       259.7
/a  Became effective October 7, 1982.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1982)
None
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 2021        University Development Project $100 million loan
Credit No.1167       and $100 million credit of November 4, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
Good progress has been made in project implementation; bid evaluation and
recommended awards for about $45 million in equipment have been approved by
the Bank. Initial disbursements for technical assistance (about $300,000)
have been made and a major contract for about $5 million in expert services is
awaiting final signature.
Credit No. 1261      North China Plain Agriculture Project $60 million credit
of June 23, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: October 7, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
Project civil works began immediately after credit signature and are well
underway; the first supervision mission is in the field.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
THE THREE PORT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project         :  12 months
(b)  The project was prepared by : The Government and the Bank
(c) Date of first presentation
to the Bank                    July 1980
(d)  Date of first mission to
consider the project           October 1980
(e)  Appraisal mission                July 1981
(f)  Completion of negotiations  :  September 1982
(g)  Planned loan effectiveness       February 1983
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A.  Conditions of Effectiveness
The Borrower's State Council shall have approved the Loan
Agreement (para. 98).
B.  Other Conditions
The Borrower would:
(a)  carry out a training program for personnel operating the project's
container and coal handling facilities and equipment (para. 76);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) take the necessary steps to ensure that each project CHC's
total expenditure (excluding depreciation) does not exceed 50%
of the CHC's total revenues (para. 91); and
(c) cause each project CHC to carry out an operating cost study for at
least its first full year of operation, and exchange views with
the Bank on the terms of reference and findings of the studies
(para. 92).



/ 5                                                                                ..45 N ,12RIE  0    1,  j  1  (  \\\  .  >_ <  ,  _ _5j
K01>  //                                            .                                                   -      ,t               y k   o f    J          >   < i     -1                    /  1     *1'k     .     C4b   .                 --   -N
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Hz ~~                                                                                                                         -   .=                                /     -/; g(,, ,                   
Cf                                                                                     N>!~~~~~~
1\ ~~~~~~~~~A                               DEMOCRATIC
4--                                                                                    N                                        4,           PEOPuOS                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAPAN
-    -1 S TA                                                                                                                                                                                           OF KOREA
<~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~N                                                                                        *.                   3!,,, .,rg                 ts .     gq t <zlm 
'\~~~~~~~ 'K                                                                                                     -              Y-                                          /XT9t
''  {,        p                                                       ,         ~          ~          -C44                                                                                              /   Nn   .__     :     X
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 
*L'.    . ... ... ',--\                                                                           ... ..                                                                                           RAILWAYS
As,   tom   {lej)>,_,Y)  /  ,1  rJ _ K>_\ I , '( h 8 /t .bur;l/h; X < tWenzhOa PORTSORTSAANDAAIRFRKS
-4-                                 p        p 5edrel.  .. . ..                                                                                                                                                      DS
N                                                                                                       /~I 
I K     -      ? D4                                                                            4 I  f(                              2              /         C-L A D E S H.C
xC4 ,  t   L-    M OC R  T IC                                        <F '                                                                  R '  R;1
.fl          P  -: F-   w          '         C/THA    ILD                                                    }PI2                 .                                                    44l L0PPNE
sG~~~~                                                 ~           ~~~ - w  -                                                    /°  '  (.-~    -.--24  41



