O FFIC IA L   LOAN NUMBER 2207 CHA
9CUIME N TS
Loan Agreement
(Three Ports Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                 IL  . (  , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2207 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      OV11M4      (-6                 , 1982,
between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same fcrce and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "MOC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Communications;
and
(b)  "Project CHC" means any of the four cargo handling
corporations established or to be established by MOC to operate
the Huangpu Coal Terminal, Huangpu Container Terminal, Shanghai
Container Terminal, and Tianjin Container Terminal, to be con-
structed under Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, respectively,
and "Project CHCs" means all four of said cargo handling corpora-
tions, collectively.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred and twenty-four million dollars ($124,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services required for the Project
and to be iinanced out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the. Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-quarters of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and port management prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any'material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.


﻿-4
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nation-
ality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the con-
tract price,
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request   on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their res-
pective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all sL'h land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for pur-
poses related to the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall carry out the training
programs under Part E of the Project in accordance with a plan
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,


﻿-5-
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower, including the Project
CHCs, responsible for carrying out the Project or any part there-
of.
(b) The Borrower shall cause each Project CHC to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained appropriate accounting practices the operations and finan-
cial condition of such Project CHC.
(c) The Borrower shall cause each Project CHC: (i) to have
its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles


﻿- 6 -
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said audi-
tors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) to furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
such Project CHC and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause each Project CHC to
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equip-
ment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and administrative
practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause each Project CHC to
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take, or cause each Project
CHC to take, all such measures (including, but not limited to,
adjustments in the structure and levels of tariffs and other
charges) as shall be required to ensure that each such Project
CHC's total working revenues for each year, commencing January 1,
1986, shall be equivalent to not less than twice its total work-
ing expenditures for that year.    For the purposes of this Sec-
tion:
(a) the term "total working expenditures" shall mean the
sum of all expenditures related to the Project CHC's operations,
including maintenance, administration and all taxes or payments
in lieu of taxes (except for income taxes) but excluding depre-
ciation charges, and net of interest and other charges on debt,
repayment of loans, all cash distribution of surplus, increases
in net working capital other than cash, and any other cash out-
flows other than cash expenditures related to the Project CHC's
operations; and


﻿-7-
(b)  the term "total working revenues" shall mean the sum of
revenues from all sources related to the Project CHC's opera-
tions.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall: (a) cause each of the Pro-
ject CHCs to carry out a study of the annual operating costs
incurred by said Project CHC during at least the first full year
of operation of its facilities constructed under the Project; and
(b) exchange views with the Bank on the terms of reference and
findings.of each such study.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within   the  meaning  of   Section  12.01   (c)  of  the   General
Conditions, namely that the the Borrower's State Council shall
have approved the Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date        V 4-, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section       12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China


﻿-8-
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINAMIN                             22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Cargo handling               124,000,000     100% of foreign
equipment                                     expenditures
and 100% of
local ex-
penditures
(ex-factory)
TOTAL        124,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the tei .itory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the teLritory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such


﻿- 10 -
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eli-
gible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists if the following Parts:
Part A:   Huangpu Coal Terminal
(1) Construction of a coal wharf of about 440 meters in
length, with an alongside depth of 12.5 meters below
mean low water level (MLW) with capacity to accomodate
two bulk vessels of up to 35,000 deadweight, and a
revetment at its northern extremity.
(2) Construction of a quay of about 400 meters in length,
for barge loading of coal, with an alongside depth of 4
meters Ielow MLW for 200 meters and 3 meters below MLW
for the other 200 meters.
(3) Reclamation and paving of an area required for a stock-
pile yard and ancillary facilities.
(4) Dredging for the front of the coal wharf constructed
under Part A (1) above, to a depth of about 12.5 meters
below MLW; and dredging for the barge quay constructed
under Part A (2) above, to the required depth.
(5) Construction of auxiliary buildings, a highway bridge,
a railway bridge and ancillary facilities.
(6) Provision and installation of coal handling equipment.
Part B:   Huangpu Container Terminal
(1) Construction of a container wharf of about 470 meters
in length and an alongside depth of 12 meters below
MLW, and a revetment at the south side of the said
wharf.
(2) Reclamation and paving of an area required for a con-
tainer yard and ancillary facilities.
(3) Dredging of a basin in front of the wharf constructed
under Part B (1) above, to a depth of 12 meters below
MLW.


﻿- 12 -
(4) Construction of ancillary buildings, a railway con-
tainer freight station, a roadway container freight
station and other structures required for the terminal.
(5) Provision and installation of container handling equip-
ment.
Part C:   Shanghai Container Terminal
(1) Construction of a container wharf of 424 meters in
length with an alongside depth of 10.5 meters below
MLW.
(2) Reclamation and paving of an area required for a con-
tainer yard and ancillary facilities.
(3) Dredging of a basin in front of the wharf constructed
under Part C (1) above, to a depth of 10.5 meters below
MLW.
(4) Construction of an auxillary transfer station of about
2 kilometers from the terminal with a roadway container
freight station, a container yard and ancillary facili-
ties.
(5) Provision and installation of container handling equip-
ment.
Part D:   Tianjin Container Terminal
(1) Construction of a container wharf of about 890 meters
in length and an alongside depth of 12 meters below MLW
or the local datum.
(2) Reclamation and paving of an area required for a con-
tainer yard and ancillary facilities.
(3) Dredging of a basin in front of the wharf to a depth of
12 meters below MLW or the local datum and dredging of
a channel to a depth of 10 meters below MLW or the
local datum.
(4) Construction of a railway container freight station, a
roadway container freight station, ancillary buildings
and structures required for the terminal.


﻿- 13 -
(5) Provision and installation of containe- handling equip-
ment.
Part E:   Staff Training
(1) Provision of a program of training for staff in oper-
ating procedures for the terminals constructed under
Parts A, B, C and D above.
(2) Provision of a program of training for staff for the
establishment of computerized management information
systems for container operations at the terminals con-
structed under Parts B, C and D above.
Part F:   Containerization Study
Carrying out and completion by December 31, 1984, of a con-
tainerization study of the hinterlands of the ports of Huangpu,
Shanghai and Tianjin, to identify inland intermodal terminals,
other facilities and transport equipment required to optimize the
door to door transport potential of the containerization of cargo
through these ports.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning May 1, 1988
through   May 1, 2002                       4,135,000
On November 1, 2002                              4,085,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years                                1.75%
before maturity
More than three years but                                3.50%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                              6.40%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                               9.30%
not more than sixteen
yeab ue-ore maturity
More than sixteen years but                             10.45%
not more than eighteen
years before maturity
More than eighteen years                                11.60%
before maturity


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the
case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and de-
tail and containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice
in order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of
the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in the People's Republic of China may be granted a margin of


﻿- 17 -
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of        goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
People's Republic of China if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the Bor-
rower and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in the People's
Republic of China equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall the-a be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 18 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded after evaluation and com-
parison of quotations solicited from at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts to be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding under Part A of this Schedule:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before-it is issued to the prospective bid-
ders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall. furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.


﻿- 19 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective quotations,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the rea-
sons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and 2onditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change ordec and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of       ,198  .
FOR SECRETARY


