Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2981 AL
(Third Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ
(SONELGAZ)
Dated November 13, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 2981 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 13, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SOCIETE NATIONALE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ, 
established by the Guarantor's Ordonnance No. 69-59, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement (SONELGAZ, hereinafter called the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria (the Guarantor) and 
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from the Export-Import Bank of Japan a loan 
(the EXIMBANK Loan) in an amount equivalent to about eighty-six    billion five 
hundred thousand dollars ($86,500,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Export-Import Bank of Japan;
     (C)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between the 
Page  2
Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the 
Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such  other obligations as set forth 
in the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  in Section 9.09, the words "promptly upon its request" are deleted  and 
replaced by the following: "not later than March 31, 1990, or such other date as shall 
be agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower"; and
     (b)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
     (b)  "kV" means kilovolt; and
     (c)  "fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which coincides with the 
calendar year.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred sixty million dollars ($160,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan  Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for  expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in the Central Bank of Algeria or another bank of its choice 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions   satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special  Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later  date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of  the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum  for each 
Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the  commencement of such Interest 
Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify 
Page  3
the Guarantor and the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on
               each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
               including the Interest Period in which this Agreement is
               signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstand-
               ing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,  
               expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined
               by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months 
               of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
engineering, financial and public utility  practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the  
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. In order to carry out Part B.3 and 4 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall:
     (a)  not later than June 30, 1990, employ consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to assist the  Borrower in 
the development of the programs under Part B.3 of the Project and in carrying out the 
study under Part B.4 of the Project;
     (b)  not later than December 31, 1991, furnish said programs together with time 
schedules for their implementation and said study to the Bank for review and comments;
     (c)  on the basis of the recommendations contained in said programs and  said 
study, and taking the Bank's comments into consideration, finalize said programs and 
said study; and
     (d)  thereafter implement said programs and the recommendations of said study in 
accordance with said time schedules.
     Section 3.04. In order to train the Borrower's staff pursuant to the provisions 
of Part B.2 of the Project the Borrower shall: 
     (a)  not later than March 31, 1990, furnish to the Bank for its review a detailed 
staff training program with an implementation schedule; and
     (b)  thereafter take all action necessary to implement said program in accordance 
with said schedule.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its  affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and  public utility 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced  management assisted by 
Page  4
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in  accordance with sound 
financial, engineering, economic and public utility practices.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate insurance practices.
     Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, not later than September 30 of each year, 
discuss with the Bank the Borrower's yearly updated load forecasts for the following 
ten years and investment program for the following five years.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
               sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
               statements) and the records and accounts for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with  
               appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
               not later than nine months after the end of each such year:
               (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
               year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
               Bank may have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and financial statements as well
               as the audit thereof as the Bank may from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
               the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other  
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
               annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
               and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion  
               by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
               submitted during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
     Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to produce funds 
from internal sources sufficient to meet its debt service  requirements and a part of 
its average annual capital expenditures in  accordance with objectives agreed upon 
between the Bank and the Borrower.
     (b)  Before September 30 in each year, the Borrower shall, on the basis of 
Page  5
forecasts prepared by the Borrower in cooperation with the Bank, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of 
such year and the next following year and shall  inform the Bank of the results of 
such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for the years covered by such review, the 
Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such 
requirements. 
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Ordonnance No. 69-59 of the Guarantor, establishing the Borrower shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to  affect materially and 
adversely the financial conditions of the Borrower or  its ability  to perform any of 
its obligations under this Agreement.
     (b)  The EXIMBANK Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1989, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however,  that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower  establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project will be available to the 
Borrower from other sources and on terms consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
     (c)  (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
              (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the
                   EXIMBANK Loan made to the Borrower for the financing of
                   the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or 
                   terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
                   of the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement, or
              (B)  said EXIMBANK Loan shall have become due and payable
                   prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
               Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
               (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematur-
               ing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform 
               any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B)
               adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from other sources and on terms consistent with the
               obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h)of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that an event specified in paragraphs 
(a), (b), or (c) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the 
proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
     Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days  after the date of this Agreement  is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. The Director General  of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  6
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          SONELGAZ
          2 Boulevard Salah Bouakouir
          Alger
          Republique Algerienne Democratique
              et Populaire
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               SONDG                          66526
               SONEG                          66381
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    SOCIETE NATIONALE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ
                    By /s/ Amanallah Sari
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each  Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Works                      48,200,000      36%
(2)  Equipment,                 94,200,000      65% of foreign
     materials                                  expenditures and
     and vehicles                               65% of local
                                                expenditures
Page  7
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost)
(3)  Consultants'                8,600,000      52%
     services
(4)  Training                    1,000,000      65% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(5)  Unallocated                 8,000,000
          TOTAL                160,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall  be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to increase the productivity of the  Borrower's 
ongoing investments in power generation, improve the quality of  power supply and 
improve the Borrower's management, planning and engineering capabilities.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:   Power Transmission
1.   Construction of 220-kV transmission lines to interconnect the power station under 
construction at Jijel and other power stations to the Borrower's principal bulk supply 
system.
2.   Construction and extension of transformer substations with a total installed 
capacity of about 2180 MVA.
Part B:   Institution Building and Studies
1.   Improvement of the Borrower's operation and maintenance capabilities through the 
provision of specialized machines and service vehicles.
2.   Strengthening of the Borrower's capabilities in network engineering and  
operation, planning and financial management through training of the  Borrower's staff 
and supply of computer hardware and software.
3.   Development and implementation of programs to:
     (a)  improve the efficiency of the electricity network;
     (b)  develop the Borrower's manpower management; and
     (c)  improve the Borrower's management and accounting systems.
4.   Carrying out of a study to determine the optimal generation techniques from an 
economic, energy  and industrial point of view, to be used in the Borrower's future 
power generation system.
*     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  8
Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning March 15, 1994
     through   September 15, 2003                 
8,000,000
__________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest rate (expressed as a
                                           percentage per annum) applicable
                                           to the balance outstanding on the 
                                           Loan on the day of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before                            1.00
Page  9
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD  Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part A 
hereof, goods manufactured in the Democratic and Popular Republic of  Algeria may be 
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and   paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Training manuals and other training aids, and computer hardware and software may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from at least three suppliers from at least  three different countries 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be  made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be  made  out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that  the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals  from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such  contracts  shall be retained 
in accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts B.3 and 4 of the  Project, 
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants, when 
financed by the Bank, shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"  published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
Page  10
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 4 set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to eight million 
dollars to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special  Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation,  the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and  deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account on such conditions as the Bank shall specify. On the basis  of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit  into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be  withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible  Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the 
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this   schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no further 
deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when  either  of the 
following situations first arises:
          (i)  the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
               should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan
               Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
               General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
               eligible Categories minus the amount of any outstanding
               special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to
               Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
               the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the 
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not  eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified  by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
Page  11
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
