Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2981 AL
(Third Power Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 13, 1989
 LOAN NUMBER 2981 AL
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November  13,  1989,  between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Societe Nationale de l'Electricite et du Gaz  (the  
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of  the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in 
the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the  
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in  various  currencies 
equivalent to one hundred sixty million dollars ($160,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor 
agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided 
in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Page  2
Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement. 
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of  the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this  end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as  primary obligor and 
not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if 
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other 
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower  will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the 
Project, to make appropriate arrangements to provide the Borrower or cause the 
Borrower to be provided promptly with such funds as are needed to meet such 
expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
     Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1990 ensure 
that all its agencies and entities in the public sector shall pay the Borrower all 
amounts due and outstanding on December 31, 1987 for the supply of electricity and 
gas, and for works and services furnished by the Borrower to said agencies and 
entities, in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank;
     (b)  ensure that all its agencies and entities in the public sector shall pay the 
Borrower all amounts for works billed and payable by the Borrower to said agencies and 
entities within 30 days upon receipt of the bills therefor; and
     (c)  ensure that on December 31 of each year the amounts due to the Borrower for 
the supply of electricity and gas by the Borrower to said agencies and entities shall 
not exceed an amount equal to the average two months  billings which are payable for 
such supply to all said agencies and entities
in the calendar year then ending.
     Section 3.02. The Guarantor specifically undertakes to take or cause to be taken 
all measures necessary to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under Section 
5.02 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 4.01. The Minister in charge of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  3
     For the Guarantor:
          Ministry of Finance
          Immeuble Mauretania
          Place du Perou
          Algiers
          Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               FINPLAN                      67073
               Algeria
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                    440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
                                             64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
                     DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
                     By /s/ Abderrahamane Bensid
Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
