D,cument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7913
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 860-TA)
JUNE 29, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This docjwntxi, has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwvise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ATC       Air Tanzania Corporation
EAA       List African Airmeys
GOT       Government of Tanzania
HTTI      Hotel and Tourism Training Institute
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IA"       International Development Association
MNRLT     Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism
HOW       Ministry of Works
NCA       Ngorongoro Conservation Authority
SSLL      Serengeti Safari Lodgea Ltd.
TANMPA    Tanzania National Parks
TTC       Tanzania Tourist Corporation
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency: Tanzania Shilling (Tsh)
Year:                                Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Yr. avg.           1978            US$1 -  Tsh 8.00
Intervening Yrs avg.        1979-82          US$1 -  Tsh 8.50
1983-85         US$1 -  Tsh 14.60
Completion Yr.              1986             US$1 -  Tsh 32.70



THE WORLD BANK                 FOR OFFIIAL U  (Way
Washmngto. D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Olce d 1OMK.Ciwwqal
OI.aeua.w lValwrna
June 29, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECt: Project Completion Report on Tanzania Tourism
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 860-TA)
Prolect Completion Report
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Tanzania - Tourism Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 860-TA)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operaticns Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment               j2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performfnce
of      '                           w*be              W



FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
TAXZNI
TOWaSM urM.AILITATIO  POJECT (CREIT 86-TA)
PROJCT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PRFCEACE              .................................................  ..
BASIC DATA SHIET                           ...
EVALUATION SUMMARY .... .....                                             .
I.INTRODUCTION ..........                                                   1
II.PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL                    .2
A. The Process.                                                        2
B. Objectives and Project Description                   .3
III. IMPLEMENTATION.                                                      4
A. Effectiveness. . .                                                  4
B. Physical Progress. . .                                              4
C. Costs and Financing Plan              . . .10
D. Disbursements .         ...............                             11
E. Procurement                           . . . .11
F. Performance of Consultants and Contractors    . . .12
G. Reporting.                        ............ . 13
H. Coemt ........................... 14
I. The Role of IDA .14
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE.                                                 15
A. Hotels and Lodges .15
B. Anti-poaching Program .15
C. Technical Assistance and Training .S
D. Marketing .............,.,                                          16
V.   INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE .17
VI. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE .17
VII. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION .18
VIII.CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS    ..21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No
AN XfS
1.   Statue and Types of Rehabilitation Works .............................. s .......... se23
2.   Contract Data ...... ...........                 ..  .......   24
3.   Itemiaed Total Costs           ................... *....... ....... ...... 25
4.   Caoparison of Appraisal ad Actual Costs ..................... 26
S.   Allocation of Credit gzpnditures ........................... 27
6.   Perforonce of Dlmbursamts.            ......................... . ......... . 26
7.   Caopl^ance with Major Credit Covenants ................... 29
S.   3ednights Sold  nd Forelp Exchangp Kruin«g ................. 30
9.   Compazatlve For ign Szebango lamnegs .................... 31
10.  Room Occupancie by otel  1977-1967 ..................... 32
11. Actual vs Projected led Occupancy Rates 3f TTC Iotls ........33
12.  Sumary of Audited Income Statements of All Hotels..                34
13.  Sumary of Audited Balance Sheets of TTC Hotels..                   35
CHARTS
1. Appraisal and Actual Implementation Schedul .36
2. Disbursement Profile .        ....................... 37
HAP .38



i-1
TANZANIA
TOURISM RE8AUILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 860-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PR'WFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for a Tourism
Rehabilitation Project for which Credit 860-TA was approved in December 1978
in the amount of US$14.0 million. The credit was reduced in September 1984
to US$12.5 upon cancellation of the Hotel and Tourism Training Institute
(HTTI) component.  The original Closing Date, June 30, 1983 was postponed
twice to the final Closing Date of June 30, 1985; final disbursement vas made
in April 1986 1/ at which time approximately US$1.1 million of the reduced
credit was c.ncelled. At project completion, i.e. six months after the final
Closing Date, physical works were about SOX complete.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
Division, Southern Africa Department, of the Africa Regional Office,
on the basis of a draft Completion Report prepared by the Tanzania
Tourist Corporation, documents contained in regional files, information
provided by staff members involved with the project during its execution
and a final PCR mission to Tanzania in May 1988.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on May 4, 1989, for comments by
June 9, 1989, but none were received.
1/ IDA agreed to keep the credit open to allow for the processing of
expenditures committed prior to the extension of the Closing Date.



-Li-
TANZANIA
TOURISM REHAITLITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 860-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Basic Data Sheet
KEY JIOJNC? DATA
Ite3                            Appraisai       Actual or
Expectation    Current Est.
Total Project Cost (US$ million)   19.5         15.8
Overrun or underrrun (1)             -          (18.9)
Credit Amount (USS million)          14.0       12.5  1/
Disbursed                        14.0       11.4
Cancelled                        -          1.1
Date Physical Components Completed 12131182  12/31/85
Proportion Completed by
Above Date                         1002       80S 2/
Proportion of Time
Underrun/Overrun                   -          2001 2/
Economic Rate of Return (2)          22         n.a.
Financial .erformaice                Fair       Poor
Institutional Perform.a:ice          Fair       Poor
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                          ginal               Actual or
P1.0       Revisions  Current Est.
First mention in files                            08i26/7S
Government Application                            01i06/76
Negotiations                                      10/24/78
Board Approval                                    12112/78
Signature                                         01/22/79
Effectiveness Date        04/24/79   06/25/79   083/2X/79
Closing Date               06/30/83   06/30/84   06/30/85
Borrower                        United Republic of Tanzania
Executing Agencies        MNR&T, MOW,             TTC, MNR&T,
TTC. TANAPA,           TANAPA, NCA
NCA
Fiscal Year of Borrower                  July 1 to June 30
Fiscal Year of ExecutinF Agencies         Jan. 1 to Dec. 31
Follow-on Project Name                   n.a.
Amount (USS million)                      n.a.
Loan/Credit Agreement Date               na.
1/  This total reflects a cancellation of US$1.5 million from the Credit in
September 1984 following the deletion of the HTTi ccmponent (para 3.03).
2/  This figure is indicative only; comparisons have been difficult to make
because of significant changes in the scope of work.



- iii. -
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATZS AND ACTUAL DISSURSUMENTS (IDA)
(USS million)
FY6G   PY61  FY62  FY63  FY64  FY65  FY86
(a)  Appr.      1.2    5.4   11.2  14.0
(b)  Act.       1.0    1.2   3.6   5.6   6.9   9.5   11.4
(c)  Act. AS I Of
Appr.      633    222   322   402   49S   663   61S
HISSIO DAtA
Item            monthl    No. of  No. of  Staff-  Date of
Year      Weeks   Perbons  weeks  Report
Ident. I           09/76      2.0    3         6.0         10/29/76
Ident. II          12/76      0.2    2         0.4         12/16/76
Ident. III         05177      0.5    2         1.0         06101177
Preappraisal       11/77      1.0    3         3.0         01/09/78
Appraisal          03/78      3.0    5         15.0        11120178
Post-Appraisal I  05/78       2.0    2         4.0         08/12/76
Post-Appraisal II 08/78       1.0    2         2.0         09/26/78
Sub-total                  9.7    19        31.4
Supervision I      03/79      1.0    2         2.0         04111/79
Supervision II    11/79       2.0    3         6.0         01/07/80
Supervision III   05/80       2.0    2         4.0         06/20/80
Supervision IV    07/81       2.0    2         4.0         08/24181
Supervision V      02182      1.5    2         3.          1
Supervision VI    10/82       1.5    2         3.0         ll/12/82
Supervision VII   05/83       2.0    2         4.0         06110/83
Supervision VIII  02/84       3.0    2         6.0         04110/84
Supervision IX    06/84       0.5    3         1.5         07/12/84
Supervision X      09/84      2.0    2         4.0         10/12/84
Supervision X_    05/85       1.0    2         2.0         06111685
Completion I       10/86      1.5    2         3.0         12/01/86
Cumpletion II      05/c       1.5 iS           1.5         PCR
Sub-total                21.5              44.0
Total                     31.2             75.4
Staff Inputs
(staff weeks)
FY76 FY77 FY78 FY79 FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85
Preappraisal        .7  21.9  14.6
Appraisal                      57.5  ;4.2
Negotiation                            8.1
Supervision                            7.7  15.7  16.9  33.8  21.2  15.4  18.3
Other                                                            2.1
Totals               .7  21.9  72.0  29.9  15.7  16.9  33.8  23.3  15.4  18.3
FY86  FY87  FY88  TOTAL
Preappraisal                           37.2
Appraisal                              71. 7
Negotiation                             8.1
Supervision        1.9   2.7   5.5  139.0
Other                                   2.1
To, 'a             . 9   2 7   s



TANZANIA
TOURISH REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 860-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALLIATION SUMMARY
rntroducrtion and Objectives
1.        The objective of the Tourism Rehabilitation Project was to assist
the Government of Tanzania (GOT) to reverse the physical deteritiration of
tourist facilities ia order to reestablish tourism as an important foreign
exchange earning industry. The project also sought to provide Tanzania with
the trained manpower and marketing tools to optimize use of the improved
facilities. To this end, the originally appraised project consisted of (a)
upgrading and improving seven hotels and five lodges, including acquisition
of needed hotel equipment; (b) construction of a hotel and tourism training
institute (HTTI); (c) preparation of marketing tools and implementation of
promotional campaigns; (d) improvements in the airport terminal at Dar es
Salaam; and (e) technical assistance to (i) the Tanzania Tourist Corporation
(TTC) in the fields of enginearing, marketing, hotel supplies, hotel
communications and tourism services and (ii) the HTTI during its first two
years of operations, as well as training of local teachers pr;.or to its
opening.
2.        The project was partia.ly redesigned in April 1982 eliminating the
airport terminal component, in view of the provision of a new terminal with
French assistance.  In September 1984, the project was further scaled down
replacing the construction of HTTI by a more modest training program based on
upgrading of existing facilities. The latter change led to the cancellation
of US$1.5 million from the credit in 1984.
Implementation Experience
3.         Project implementation, affected by a series of delays and setbacks,
can only be described as fair, at best. The project was carried out during
a period of severe economic downturn which affected not only the volume of
tourists (i.e. revenues) but also the availability of materials and resources
for  physical  execution  of  the  project.    Within  the  context  of  the
macroeconomic difficulties, implementation difficulties besetting the project
includes underestimation of materials not avail5bl, locally, late ordering,
lack of coordination of site activities, ineffective construction management
by TTC's consultants, and shortage of local funds to pay contractors.  The
small volume and the type of works (largely maintenance) dispersed over far
and remote areas rendered virtually impossible the coordination of overlapping
works (i.e. between civil, electrical and mechanical works).  As a result,
imported materials remained idle for a number of years and, in some locations,
materials have still not been put to use (para 3.16). The project was halted
in mid-1986 with 902 completion in the best cases, to less than 30S completion
in the worst.
4.       Lengthy delays led to a significant reduction in the volume of work
performed and cost escalations (in local shillings), due to inflation, and
progressive devaluation of the shilling, among other factors (para 3.31).



-vi-
5         The mjor problem #ith the project in retrospect, however,  is a
problem of project design which underestimted the amount of work required to
physically rehabilitate the designated hotels and lodges. This vas compounded
by the lengthy delays during implementation which led to further physical
deterioration. It appears that the more critical physical needs of, say, a
selected number of hotels and lodges were omitted from the project, e.g.,
structural problems caused by beach erosion undermininS one of TTC's beach
hotals; extensive roofing damges: and corrosion of the plumbing system.  A
more seriou. evaluation and prioritization of the rehabilitation needs prior
to start of project might have helped to identLfying these critical
shortcomings and including them in a concentrated program of urgent repair and
upgrading of a selected number of facilities.
6.        IDA's supervision of the project was on.y fair as it was affected
by the dank's termination of dirLCt involvement in the tourism sector in the
early 1980a and corresponding shift in sectoral priorities.  IDA's role in
project supervision might have been enhanced if a general mid-implementation
review of the project had taken place.
7.        Project management was affected by the lax supervision of the
consultarn:y services provided to TTC (para 3.35, 3.36).
8.         The impact of technical assistance under the project was mixed.
The training program was partially successful in improving standards at the
hctels, and TTC considered the technical assistance provided in finance.
auditing and hotel systems to be useful while the exper-ts were on site.
However, because of the absence of a structured training program. local
courterparts who have nov taken up these positions remain ineffective. The
performance of the remaining experts was judged to be only fair.
9.         Marketing and promotional campaigns were effectively carried out.
However, it was felt that these efforts were not well-timed as the allocation
for this component was spent before contracts for rehabilitation works were
awarded.  The long-term effects of the marketing and promotional campaigrs
may have already been jeopardized by the closing of all of TTC's foreign
offices (para 4.10).
Results, Suatainability and Findings
10.        Financial performance has not been satisfactory, based on limited
financial data received to date. TTC has been showing increasing operating
losses in all of the past eight years but one.  Its hotels have also been
running annual operating deficits in spite of regular annual rate increase..
None of the financial criteria identified at appraisal were met during
execution. TTC still needs substantial strengthening in its accounts section,
particularly to assist it to bring its records up to date and to sort out the
investment coets incurred at each hotel in order to apportion these costs and
their eventual debt servicing appropriately.
11.        Largely on account of the marginal improvements in most of the
hotels, the high costs incurred, the lengthy time overruns, the lower than
anticipated tourist traffic (the basis for the incremental revenues) combined
with leakages in the foreign exchange control system (para 7.08), the actual



-vii-
economic rate of return would be much lower than the appraisal estimate of
22Z and perhaps even negative.  An ex post econAOic rate of return has not
been calculated because of the lack of reliable data On which to bass such an
analysis.   The additional employment  generated,  consisting primarily  of
temporary employment during physical implementation, was modest. Significant
staff reductions have taken place in the industry, and moa are anticipated
(para 7.06).



TAN AI
TOURISM RUEStILITATIOI PROJKCT (CRIDIT 860-TA)
PROJMCT COILZTION RECPORT
I.    14TRODUCTION
1.01      Tanzania's tourist attractions combine exotic scenery, wildlife and
beaches. as vell  as historical  and archaeological  sites.   Its vildlife
resources, among the finest in the world, together with the attract-on of
Africa's  highest mountain,  the Kilimanjaro.  have  long been part of an
established East African tourist circult. Additional attractione include the
fine sandy beaches south of Dar-es-Salaam. the 'spice islands' of Zanzibar and
Pemba, and Kafia Island which is widely known for deep sea fishing. Along the
Indian Ocean coast are the remains of ancient settlements of great interest
to historians, including the discoveries of the traces of the earliest man at
Olduvai.
1.02      Despite these attractions, tourist flois into Tanzania experienced
a dramatic decline in the l970s. rotal visitor bed-nights increased by only
3.52 per annum from 1972  to 1976 comparen with an 18? annual  increase
experienced from 1962 to 1972. Bed occupancy rates remained at the low 1972
levels throughout the seventies (about 43 to 45?). This depressed performance             r
had a negative impact on foreign exchange earnings which actually dropped in
real terms d4ring the 709.
1.03      the relative decline in the performance of the tourism industry had
been attributed to the generally unfavorable socio-polit.'cal attitude to
tourism which prevailed in Tanzania in the early 1970s; the main issue being
the compatibility of tourism and socialisL development. The period was ilso
marked by a worsening in Lhe country's economic condition and a steady
deterioration in the level and qiuality of tourism services. A related problem
constraining the tourism industry was the strict control on foreign exchange
and reluct'nce of the GOT to provide foreign exchange funds to purchase even
the most 'asic hotel supply items.   Major hotel appliances and fixtures
deteriorated -apidly as foreign exchange need-d for their maintenance, spare
parts or replacements was in very short supply. Finally, there were a number
of problems relating to lack of adequate hotel training and staffing of the
TTC. a parastatal organizatior controlling about two-thirds of hotel capacity.
in the areas of hotel supplis. engin.ering. reservations and-marketing.
1.04      Beginning in mid 1975 the attitudes of the GOT began to change as
information became available on the contribution of tourism to foreign
exchange earnings and employment, and as GOT became confident that any adverse
impact of tourism on political and social values could be avoided.
Accordingly, the GOT and the hotel managemeute embarked on a campaign to
educate workers. Subsequently, the GOT relaxed its restrictions on foreign
exchange allocations to the sector and increased its financial support to the
TTC for promoting Tanzania's tourist attractions.   Hotels were allocated
foreign exchange to purch.se essential equipment and supplies from abroad, and
maintenarce expenditures at state hotels were increased.



1.05      Additionally, following the closure of the Kenya border, ard the
cessation of operations of the East African Airways (EAA) in 1977, the GOT
provided funds for the startup of Air Tanzania Corporation (ATC) to provide
links between Tanzania and its neighboring countries and Europe and allowed
the expansion of small charter airlines.
1.06      It was further stated by the GOT that it had no intention to
nationalize the tourism industry and that all foreign investors were protected
under the Foreign Investment Protection Act of 1963, which guarantees foreign
investments against expropriation. The Association of Hoteliers vas revived
in early 1978 and discussions on the needs of the private sector were
initiated between GOT and the private hotel operators.  Private investors,
national and foreign, were invited to invest in tourism.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. The Process
2.01      The Tourism Rehabilitation Project in Tanzania arose from a request
from the GOT for IDA support to reverse the deterioration of the tourism
industry.  This project was  first conceived by a Bank sector mission in
December 1975 and further defined by an identification mission in September
1976. The latter mission also prepared, at the request of the GOT, detailed
terms of reference for a study of the measures required for rehabilitating and
increasing the utilization of existing tourist facilities.  Funds for the
study were made avaiiable through an IDA technical assistance Credit to
Tanzania (Credit 601-TA). Proposals from four consulting firms were received
in March 1977 and in May, Coopers and Lybrand, in cooperation with Norman and
Dawbarn, were chosen to conduct the study. The consultants completed work in
early 1978 and based on their report 'Tanzania Tourism Study', th- project was
appraised by IDA in March 1978.  Cost estimates were based on preliminary
architectural and engineering studies carried out by the consultants and were
updated to October 1978 prices.
2.02      Negotiations  were  held  in  Washington  in  October  1978.    The
Government delegation consisted of representatives  from the Ministry of
Finance and Planning, Attorney General's Chambers,- M3nistry of Natural
Resources and Tourism, TTC, and Tanzania National Parks.  The main issues
centered on: (i) a requirement for the GOT to classify tourism as an export
industry by December 31, 1979, in order to ensure the availability of adequate
foreign exchange; (ii) GOT providing the Serengeti Safari Lodge Limited (SSLL)
with additional equity funds (totalling TSh 19.5 million) equal to the due and
overdue principal and interest on its loans; (iii) GOT providing sufficient
funding for TTC to perform all its obligations; and (iv) the need for an
increase in the international airport departure tax once improvements to the
terminal building weLe completed in order to recover the improvement costs.
2.03      Agreement was reached on most of these issues and recorded in the
amended draft Development Credit Agreement. The requirement for an increase
in the international departure tax coula not be endorsed by the Government
delegation as it dealt with a taxation issLe whicn could only be finalized by



Parliament.  In view of this and their assurance that IDA's vievs on this
matter would be considored at the appropriate time, IDA had no objection.
2.04      The :ollowing additional amendments were made to the project at that
timet (i) a covenant initially added to the Development Credit Agreement
counitting the GOT to upgrade and maintain the Makuyuni-Serengeti Road
(essential for access to the northern national parks) was deleted as it was
agreed that the then proposed B-hway Maintenance Project (IDA-financed,
Credit 876-TA) would include I ancing for this construction, and its
implementation would address this requirement; (ii) an anti-poaching component
totalling about US$500,000 was added based on proposals presented by GOT at
negotiations; and (iii) based on the revised cost estimates brought to ths
negotiations by the Tanzanian delegation for the interim passenger facility
for the Dar es Salaam airport, an increase of US$250,000 was made.  These
changes led to an increase of approximately US$1.0 million In the IDA
allocation for t'ais project to US$14.0 million.
B.   Objectives and Project Description
2.05      The principal objective of the project was to assist the Government
in reversing the deterioration of tourist facilities and services begun in the
early 1970s rnd to provide the country with the trained manpower and marketing
tools to optimize use of its facilities.  It therefore included provisions for
hotel rehabilitation, training of hotel employees, and intensified promotion
of T.nzania's tourist attractions.
2.06      The prK-ect components as agreed at appraisal consisted of the
followings
i.   Rehabilitation of seven hotels and five lodges operated and owned
by the TTC;
ii.  Construction,  furnishing,  and equipping of a Hotel and Tourism
Training Inst.tute (HTTI) to be located in Dar es Salaam;
iii. Technical assistance to:
(a) the TTC consisting of r5 man-years of internationally recruited
specialists' services in the fields of hotel maintenance,
marketing, hotel supplies, hotel communications, and project
coordination;
(b)  the  HTTI  consisting  of  18  man-years  of  incernationally
recruited   specialists'   services   and  20  man-years   of
fellowships;
iv.  Marketing campaigns and the preparation of promotional materials
aimed at the tourist travel trade;
v.   Improvement of the terminal building of the Dar es Salaam airport,
including construction of a new international passenger processing
unit adjacent to the existing terminal building, and installation



4
of luggage conveyors and *%wipment for moving luggage to and from
the aircraft; and
vi.  Equipmet and vehicles for the anti-poaching units of the Tanzania
National Parks (TAKAPA) and the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority
(NCA).
2.07      The project scope was amended in April 1982 and September 1984 with
the deletion of thi airport terminal component at Dar es Salaam and the
replacement of the construction of the HTTI by a training program based on
upgraded facil ties, respectively (paras 3.02 and 3.03).
III. IMPLEHENTATION
A. Effectiveness
3.01      Credit effectiveness  was delayed by about  four months  pending
compliance with the only condition of effectiveness -- the signing of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the GOT and the TTC.  The Credit became
effective on August 24, 1979.   The delay in credit effectiveness did not
forestall preliminary startup activities, however, as equipment and materials
for the marketing program were purchased early in. 1979; retroactive financing
in the amount of US$400,000 was made available for these items.
Amendments to the Protect
3.02      Part D of the proj  t, improvements to the D*r es Salaam airport
terminal building, was deleted from the project in April 1982, as it was
included in a larger package of major improvements to the Dar es Salaam
airport, including construction of a new terminal building funded by the GOT
with French bilateral assistance.   This led to a reallocation of US$0.9
million to the civil works component of the Credit.
3.03      Likewise,  the establishment  of the HTTI  in Dar es  Salaam was
deleted, primarily because of cost escalation brought about by delays in site
selection. After a lengthy search for a suitable site, acceptable to the GOT
and IDA. one was finally selected iu March 1981, and consultants were
appointed to prepare preliminary design and revised cost estimates.  Despite
IDA's warnings t, the contrary, preliminary designs were drawn up for an
elaborate institute, in accordance with the requirements of the MNR&T. The
estimated cost exceeded appraisal estimates by over 170S. Attempts by GOT to
secure additional and/or alternative financing failed. As training of hotel
staff was still considered to be essential, and as time available for the
construction of HTTI began to run out, it was agreed ii August 1984, to
substitute it with an expansion of training activities at existing training
facilities to cater for the project's needs. Following its deletion, US$1.5
million was cancelled from the Credit on September 1, 1984.
B. Physical Progress
3.04      The physical components consisted essentially of the rehabilitation



of the twelve hotels and lodges owned by TTC. located in different and not
always easily accessible parts of Tanzania (see map attached). Rehabilitation
consisted mainly of maintenance and minor repairs to kitchens. laundry areas,
and sanitary facilities. Provisions vere also made to rectify the electrical.
ventilation and airconditioning systems. Overall progress was poor; physical
works took over sewea years to complete as opposed to four years and a much
lower volume of work was done than had been anticipated at appraisal.
3.05      Implementation was slowed by a series of interrelated factors both
internal and external to the project.  The country was going through a very
difficult economic period which restricted che availability of forei;n
exchange and slowed the procurement of vehicles, and other essential equipment
and materials required to execute the project efficiently. At the same time.
the project got off to an ominously slow start caused by (i) a ten-month delay
in the appointment of the Project Coordinator; and (ii) delays caused by the
change of supervising consultants. The original consultants were replaced by
a team of architeq..ts, engineers and quantity surxeyors (already engaged by T!C
in the construction of an extension to the New Arica Hotel). IDA agreed to
this change cautioning that new consultants would unnecessarily drive up the
costs as they would duplicate work already done, e.g. re-survey of all
facilities involved and review of the work done by the earlier consultants.
3.06      The change in consultants in reality turned out to be superficial,
involving only the change in leadership but essentially maintaining the same
staff, although the fears expressed by IDA regarding cost increases turned out
to  be  the  case.    Following  a  re-assessment  of  work  required  by  the
consultants, a program for minimum requirements was agreed upon which
substantially exceeded the original envisaged scope.  In order to keep the
total cost of rehabilitation close to app-aisal estimate of US$10 million,
the list of rehabilitation works had to be reduced to 'items considered
absolutely essential for an effective minimum standard of operation'. Tender
documents were delayed and did not become available until the end of 1980; as
the nature of works (largely maintenance) did not attract an overwhelming
response from civil contractors, TTC resorted to local competitive bidding.
The first award of contracts for civil works were made in Hay 1982, almost
three years after Credit effectiveness.
3.07      Contracts  for the  implementation  of civil works  went  to four
different local contractors: (i) one contract for all hotels and lodges in the
Northern area; 'ii) one contract for the two hotels in Dar es Salaam; (iii)
one contract for Hikumi Wildlife lodge; and (iv) one contract for Kunduchi
Beach Hotel and the Mafia Island Lodge.  Civil works contracts were packaged
by location in order to attract contractors to the small volume of works to
be done at each site. Contracts for the electrical and mechanical works were
packaged by specialty as opposed to location of hotel unit and went to three
contractors (one separate contract for Mafia Island because of its
remoteness). What ensued was a cumbersome job of scheduling and coordinating
work between contractors, organizing overlapping activities and bringing them
in line with the necessary building works, all of which overburdened the
management capacity of the contractors.  Schedules were poorly maintained;
supervision ineffective; communication weak; and coordination, which is highly
essential in the context of Tanzania's difficult logistics and low level of



6
infrastructure development, was virtually non-existent.
3.08      Once the civil works contracts were awarded, startup was delayed by
almost one and a half years (end-1983) primarily because various building
materials were not available locally and because of management difficulties
within TTC.  The lack of foreign exchange, another inhibiting factor, vas
circumvented by special arrangements between IDA and the Treasury allowing
import of materials, construction equipmont, tools and vehicles for the
contractors financed out of the Credit. (This was achieved by limiting IDA's
financing of Civil Works to covering only the direct foreign expenditures).
The costs were to be recovered in Tanzania shillings equivalent from the
contractors, though with great difficulty (para 3.37). The imported materials
finally arrived in December 1983, held up in part by uncertainties caused by
IDA's country-wide suspension of disbursement between July to November 1982
(para 3.32).  The Bills of Quantities were then out of date and, for cost
containment purposes, the scope of the civil works was further reduced.
3.09      During the same period, the fixtures, spare parts aud equipment
(needed by the mechanical and electrical contractors) arrived and were
distributed to the hotels but had to be stored for considerable periods before
they could be installed, as their installatio3 had to be coordinated with the
civil works.
3.10      Overall  project  supervision  on  the  part  of  the  supervising
consultants (para 3.35) was considered lax; they relied largely on the reports
of clerks of works for information.  This situation contributed to sluggish
performance and poor workmanship.  Supervision was done without the benefit
of a consolidated schedule of works, which added to the confusion and lack of
control over contractors during implementation.   Supervision of physical
progress improved moderately at the final stages of the project, as IDA made
the preparation of a firm schedule of implementation a requirement for the
second extension of the Closing Date from June 1984 to June 1985.
3.11      In summary, physical works proceeded rather slowly, affected largely
by the way the contracts were packaged, the small volumes and distait location
of works, contractual disputes, failure of contractors to perform leading to
their suspension, delays in importation of materials, poor supervision and,
at times, failure of TTC to pay because of the shortage of local funds. Some
of the works that were eventually carried out have been overtaken by
accumulated physical deter.oration.  By June 1985, the Closing Date of the
Credit, approximately 802 of the works that were finally commissioned were
completed. The total value of physical works amounted to Tshs 147.9 million
which is 140Z over the appraisal estimates for physical works.
3.12      The status of work performed at each hotel and lodge is provided in
Annex 1; related contract data are provided in Annex 2. The details of the
physical progress for each hotel/lodge follows
Moshi hotel
3.13      The  civil  works  specified  in  the  Bill  of  Quantities  was
satisfactorily completed; cost overruns were minor (1.5Z).   The supply of



I
equipment procured for this hotel, however, have not been fully utilized,
e.g., sanitary facilities vere installed but have not yet been connected and
remain dysfunctional as pipes to connect them to the drainage system were not
available.
New Safari hotel
3.14      Civil works are 902 complete.  The mechanical and electrical works
appearing in the Bill of Quantities were carried out satisfactorily but
remained incomplete because of the unavailability of basic spares and
material.    The  specialized  contractor  for  these  works  claimed  that
requirements for materials and equipment given in the Bill of Quantities were
insufficient to complete the works.  This was partly due to deterioration of
existing installations which took place during the long intervening period
between  preparation   of   tender   documents   and  eventual   startup   of
implementation, and partly also to changes in design introduced during
implementation.   As a result,  this hotel was  left with  the basic work
incomplete, e.g. removal of kitchen windows and tiling of kitchen floor;
repairs to the ceilings of the dining room and reception/lounge; and paint to
bar area walls. The steam and plumbing installation consisting essentially
of supplying and installing waste and vent pipes and fittings was also not
done for lack of basic supplies. Final contract for civil works amounted to
Tshs 2.3 million, an increase of 72 over the bid value.
Lobo Wildlife Lodge
3.15      Most of the works included in the Bill of Quantities were carried
out as planned. The final civil works contract amounted to Tshs 3.7 million,
an increase of 40? over initial estimates.
Seronera Wildlife lodge
3.16      Civil works on this facility is essentially 952 complete.   The
quality of workmanship suffered from the lack of basic materials, e.g. door
handles to toilet doors,  locks, bolts and shelving.   Water and sanitary
facilities, including overhauling of boiler were left incomplete because stop
valves, seals and washers were not provided. Also, materials were procured
but not installed, e.S. water softener equipment. Final civil works contract
amounted to Tshs 2.5 million, a difference of Tshs 0.4 million over bid value.
New Mwanza hotel
3.17      Civil works, mechanical and electrical works were carried out as
commissioned on the kitchen,  ground and first floor public areas.    The
sanitary installations were not done though it was part of the contract.
Final contract amounted to Tshs 4.1 million, an increase of Tshs 1.8 million
over bid value.
Lake i4anyara hotel
3.18      Most of the works (95?) described in the Bill of Quantities were
carried out in addition to extra work executed under variation orders.  There



were several omissions, e.g. construction of vater pump foundation was never
installed  due  to  an  oversight  in  specifications,  neither  the  steua
installations  nor  sanitary  installations were done.   Final civil works
contract amounted to Tshs 6.1 million, an increase of Tshs 1.9 million over
the bid value.   Currently,  the Hanyara appears to be one of the better
preserved hotels as it has received post-project maintenance funding from the
GOT.
Niorongoro Wildlife lodge
3.19      Most of the works,  including repairs to t?e kitchen,  boilers,
generators and roof were executed. Final civil works contract value amounted
to Tshs 17.3 million, an increase of Tshs 12.0 million over bid value.
New Africa hotel
3.20      Civil works were 90S complete by the end of the project.  Unlike
many of the other facilities, most of the steam installations were completed
except for the installation of gas due to the non-availability of gas valves.
Final contract amounted to Tshs 4.8 million, an increase of Tshs 0.3 million
over bid value.
Kilimaniaro hotel
3.21      Civil works  started  in December  1983  and  ended  in mid-1986.
Extensive  work  was  carried  out  on  the  mechanical,   electrical  and
airconditioning   installations   of  this  hotel.         Replacement   of  the
airconditioning units added US$350,000 to the cost of rehabilitating this
unit, procured through a reallocation of the proceeds of the Credit.
Additional works were commissioned in December 1985 to operationalize the
aircondition system.   The cooling system is still not functioning well,
however, because of mechanical flaws and system deterioration: e.g the chiller
had defective units, and the blowing fans corroded more quickly than expected
needing replacement. By the end of the project, the civil works on this hotel
were 80? complete.  Final contract value amounted to Tshs 4.5 million, an
increase of Tshs 0.4 million over bid value.
Mikumi Wildlife lodge
3.22      Approximately  95Z of the civil works were executed, with some
variation, and in general, physical work. were satisfactorily done despite
extended delays. These delays were caused largely by the lengthy period for
procuring additional mechanical (e.g. fittings a-i plumbing accessories) and
electrical materials required for kitchen operrtions.   Connection of the
airconditioning units to the electrical system was delayed by an oversight as
the lodge was not connected to the main supply.  Later in the project, two
small generators were procured for the operation of the aircondition units;
the airconditioning units, however, remain inoperatil?e.  Steam and plumbing
installations were also initially hampered by lack of fittings and
accessories.   Final civil works'  contract amounted to Tshs 4.7 million,
approximately 47Z above original estimates.



Kunduchi Beach hotel
3.23      Many items in the Bill of Quantities were not fully carried out,
some due to professional oversight and to failure to discharge obligations
(lack of vehicles, equipment and personnel). This resulted in work being left
half done or totally undone. For example. two chillers and compressors had
to be replaced in order to have the airconditioning equipment functioning, but
these were never replaced. Completion of the civil works at the Closing Date
is about 801. The total civil works' contract for this facility amounted to
Tshs 3.9 million as compared to the original contract amount of Tshs 4.0
million.
Mafia Island lodge
3.24      This facility was about 302 complete by the end of the project.
Start-up was initially delayed by contractor.' reluctance to accept the small
vol,,me of work to be done in an isolated and difficult to access region of the
country. Moreover, labor on the Island is scarce. The contractor who finally
accepted the work performed poorly. Materials were delivered on site but not
installed by the contractor who vas subsequently ordered to leave the site.
In order to avoid lengthy arbitration procedures, the termination of the
contract was negotiated and the contractor was paid for preliminaries and
minor work to sta'f quarters and drainage channels plus suspension costs
amounting to TShs 770 thousand. The remaining works were awarded to another
contractor, whose performance was also unsatisfactory. TTC managed to install
the air condition units vith its own in-house labor, but most of the equipment
currently remain unused on the Island. The difficult logistics on the remote
Island (complicated by the ineffectiveness of the contractors) proved to be
the major constraining  factor  to rehabilitating this  lodge.   The  final
contract value amounted to Tshs 2.7 million, which ls Tsha 1.97 million less
than bid value despite the fact that only 301 of the work was carried out.
Training
3.25      Initially,  a  sum  of  US$2.9  million  was  earmarked  for  the
construction of the HTTI and an ambitious technical assistance package for its
staff. By 1984 when construction was deemed no longer feasible (para 3.03),
IDA agreed to utilize a portion of the funds for a scaled-down training
program for staff employed by TTC hotels. By contract dated October 29, 1984,
TTC and MNR&T engaged consultants for this purpose.  After a comprehensive
evaluation of the TTC hotels and lodges, the consultants prepared a program
consisting of local and overseas training for approximately 160 hotel staff
in manAgement and services. The overseas program in Switzerland included both
theoretical and practical training, including a four-week on-the-job practicum
at first class hotels and restaurants in Switzerland.
Hotel and Tourism Training Institute (HTTI)
3.26      After spending about three years preparing for the erection of this
facility it was eventually dropped from the project.



1id
Passenger Terminal at Dar-es-Salaam Airport
3 .27     This component was timely deleted froc the project in April 1982 as
alternative financing was secured for more elaborate improvements to the
airport, including a new terminal building, which have been completed and is
in use.
Anti-Poaching Program
3.28      The  anti-poaching  program was carried out  as foreseen  in the
Development Credit Agreement. By aid 1980, the Wildlife Division of MNO&T in
charge of this component, had acquired 28 landrovers through MOW directly from
the importer of these vehicles (Landrover, Australia) and had prepared a list
for remaining equioment to be procured through ICB. consist-ng of vehicles,
radio transmitters, receivers, and binoculars for the anti-poaching program
in Serengeti National Park and in the area of Ngorongoro Conservation
Authority. By mid-1981, the vehicles had arrived and were being put to use
effectively. The Division also complied with the covenant in the Development
Credit Agreement to report dnnually on the wildlife situation in Tanzania and
on the results of antipoaching activities.
Marketing and Promotion
3.29      TTC embarked upon its publicity and promotional campaign early in
the project.   By end 1979, TTC had already commissioned the design and
printing of brochures, maps and the opening of a new office in Stockholm. Its
overseas marketing and promotion have since come to an abrupt halt, however
(para 4.10), due to budgetary constraints.
C. Costs and Financing1 Plan
3.30      Annexes 3 and 4 indicate that the actual total cost of the project
amounted to TShs 221.6 million, or 42? above the appraisal estimates of TShs
156.5 million.  The actual cost of the project in US dollar equivalent has
been estimated at US$15.8 million, or 192 less than the appraisal estimate of
US$19.5 million.  This reduction reflects savings in US dollars caused by
successive devaluations of Tanzanian shilling against the US dollar during
implementation of the project. The IDA Credit of -US$11.4 miilion financed 72?
of total project costs as summarized below and detailed in Annexes 3 to 5.
Summary Project Financing
(1980-86)
(TShs mill)               (US$ mill)
Est.      Act.            Est.      Act.
IDA Credit      112.0     160.0           14.0      11.4
GOT Funds        44.0      61.5            5.5        4.4
TOTAL        156.0      221.5           19.5     1.8



12
3.31      Given the implemntation context of this project. cost overruns in
Tanzania shillings were miniml.  They would have been excessive had the
volum  of rehabilitation works not been significantly  scaled down.   An
analysis  of  the  cost  overruns  suggests  the  following  causes:  (a)
implementation delays; (b) frequent changes in consultants/contractors; (c)
additional costs for early contract termination and suspension; (d) domestic
price increases; and Ce) exchange rate movements.
D. Disbursements
3.32      Disbursements from the various categories of the Credit are shown
in Annex 6, and accumulated disbursements from the credit by quarters compared
with appraisal estimates are given in Chart 2. Project capital expenditures
were expected to comence in the second quarter of calendar year 1979, with
disbursements  lagging  behind  expenditures  by  one  quarter.          Actual
disbursements took place at a much slower rate, requiring seven years
compared  to the  appraisal  estimate  of  four years.   While  the  capital
expenditures commenced on target, the level of expenditures and therefore
disbursements, was much lower, so that by the end of the third year of
implementation, disbursements totalled US$3.6 million, or 322 of appraisal
expectations. Initial delays were primarily attributed to TTC's procedural
errors  in  submitting  withdrawal  applications  to  IDA.    For  example,
applications for the purchase of hotel equipment had to be returned to TTC for
rerouting through the proper channel, i.e., the Treasury. The late start of
civil works and delays in deciding on the fate of HTTI also contributed to the
lag in disbursement. the general country-wide suspension of disbursements for
non-payment of loans between mid July 1982 and November 1982 was a further
contributory factor. By mid-1986, approximately ten months after the close
of the project, a total of US$11.4 million was disbursed; the remaining
balance of the reduced credit (para 3.03) was then cancelled.
E. Procurement
3.33      Procurement, except for civil works, was generally carried out in
accordance with provisions of the Credit Agreement and of IDA Procurement
Guidelines.   Tenders  for civil works were  invited early  in 1981 under
international competitive bidding; poor initial responses (only two bids
received) led to further retendering. with little success.  It is believed
that the comparatively low value of some components, small quantities, and
scattered location of the facilities rendered the contracts unattractive.
Civil works contracts were subsequently awarded to local contractors following
local competitive bidding procedures, with IDA agreement. Contracts for the
supply and installation of equipment were also awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding.
3.34      The   procurement   process   was   cumbersome   and   inefficient.
Centralization of the procurement procedures in TTC and poor coordination were
important contributory factors. Bidding documents were not well prepared and
required frequent clarification of items and subsequent retendering.   For
example, inconsistencies were found in unit costs and other conditions of
tender. There were numerous changes in specifications for the items which
were to be procured from overseas largely due to omissions in the Bills of



Quantities. Poor coordination between TTC and the supervising consultants led
to the carrying out of variation orders by TTC technical personnel in
conjunction with the contractor without any liaison with the supervining
consultants; these procedures added to the delays in procuring of overseas
items and in delivering materials on site.
F. Performance of Consultants and Contractors
Supervising Consultants
3.35      Involvement of the initial consultants in the project started in
September 1979 and proceeded smoothly until a dispute arose between the
consultants and the TTC about remunerations. The dispute arose just at the
time when the already delayed bidding for civil works was to start.  Work
stopped, and again almost ore year was lost. As no suitable agreement couid
be reached, the consultants decided to withdraw their services in early ifi3.
This had a marked effect on physical progress and project costs. By the time
the 'new' consultants took up their positions in mid 1982, the costs on which
the Bills of Quantities were based at appraisal in 1978 could no longer be
applied because of inflation and further deterioration of facilities.
3.36      The change in consultants represented merely a change in leadership
as  the personnel  remained essentially  the  same.   It is not  surprising
therefore that performance of the new consultants did not improve appreciably.
marked by loose supervision and staffing problems (e.g. premature termination
of key staff in 1982 after onily four months on the project), and the residual
effects of the dispute on remuneration.  It is unclear to what extent the
retention of the same staff affected the quality of supervision of the
project, but overall consulting supervision was judged to be lethargic by both
IDA supervision missions and TTC.  For example, little attempt was made to
guide the pace of implementation. to establish a schedule of implementation
of the various works and estimates of final costs and to propose a method of
recovering from the civil works contractors the advanced expenditures for
imported materials (para 3.37).
Physical Works Contractors
3.37      The performance  of the civil works'  contractors was  generally
unsatisfactory both in terms of efficiency and in the quality of work
performed.  They were slow in responding to payments for the local costs of
acquirinr plant and vehicles needed to speed up implementation as had been
agreed on (para 3.08), and thus held up implementation. Consequently, while
TTC agreed to hand over plant and construction equipment to the contractors
prior to receiving any payments from them, the vehicles had to be stored with
the supplier's local agent pending payment. The contractors were therefore
slowed by the lack of vehicles needed for their work. Eventually a compromise
was reached whereby TTC reluctantly agreed to recover payments from payment
certificates as the contractors claimed they were experiencing cash shortages.
3.38      The mechanical contractors performed satisfactorily, but because of
poor supervision they overextended their work submitting numerous and often
unnecessary  variation  orders.       The  contractors  responsible  for  the



23
airconditioning repairs performed only fairly. partly due to the fact that
the scope of work was not well defined initially, which led to a complete
overhauling of the airconditioning systems when tho contractors were halfwa7
thronSh their initial work.  The electrical vork was judged to be fair in
terms of materials and workmanship.   Furniture repairs suffered from poor
vorkmanship which led to early termination of the contractors. One can fairly
surmise that the contractors, ineffectiveness was linked to a lack of
comitment to contractual obligations at the expense of TTC which eventually
had to pay approzimately Tshs 4.14 million in suspension costs.
Training oZ Hotel Personnel
3.39      The consultants contracted for training of TTC hotel personnel
performed efficiently, within the agreed time frame and budget allocation.
The consultants were able to procure vehicles and all required equipment and
ship them to Tanzania on time to start the local tra ning program at the
Kunduchi Beach Hotel. The overseas training program was implemented without
incident.
G. Reporting, Accounting and Auditing
i 40      At the start of project implementation, it had been agreed with the
executing agencies (TTC. TANAPA and MNR&T) that quarterly progress reports
would be prepared by the agencies and forwarded to the Project Coordinator in
the MNRLT who would summarize the information and then forward the report to
IDA.  The first report was expected in January 1980 covering the six-month
period July to December 1979 in view of the startup delays, followed by
regular quarterly progress reports.  The frequency as well as the quality of
reporting 'as less than satisfactory. By June 1985. a total of 12 reports had
been forwarded.   In order to simplify the process, IDA suggested during a
supervision missiou in 1984 that future quarterly progress repoLts be
submitted by TTC directly to IDA and a copy be sent to the Ministry. IDA had
made its recommendation on the basis that TTC was the sole executing agency
from 1984 onavrd, with the deletion of the airport component, the completion
of the anti-poaching component, and the i-iinent deletion of the HTTI.  The
reports, however, were not forthcoming. One of the reasons adduced by TTC was
that the slow pace of execution did not justify the preparation of periodic
quarterly reports.
3.41      Project accounLs were not kept separately as agreed upon.   The
project accountant did maintain commitment records in a subsidiary ledger for
all foreign expenditures and in a cash book for local payments, but no
information on actual expenditures was recorded. This has made the process
of accounting for commlitments/expenditures by project component very time-
consuming at the project completion phase and has rendered very difficult the
task of apportioning erpenditures by hotel/lodge.   Auditing of individual
hotels and lodges was done as agreed, though it tended to lag considerably,
by at least three to four years.  The reasons for the delays in submitting
financial records to IDA still persist today, namely, lack of experiencea
staff, high turnover of accounting staff, and TTC's inability to lure
qualified accountants to upcountry locations. TTC's involvement in litigation
during project execution further delayed the processing of accounts as records



1(
were being held by the police as evidence in legal proceedings.
H. Covenants
3.42      The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement include
a comprehensive set of covenants. The overall performnco of the GOT and TTC
in meeting the various covenants was fair, at best (Anneo 7 provides a list
of covenants and status of compliance). In soaw cases. o.g., the appoint:mnt
of a Project Coordinator, the covenanted deadline had to be extended by about
ten months, which delayed project startup. TTC did not fully comply with the
covenant to increase the annual level of maintenance expenditures to at least
6Z of its annual hotel sales or 2Z of the total current value of its fixed
assets. Despite general statements in supervision reports (not benefitting
from details per hotel) that this covenant was complied vith, it was very
unlikely, given the difficulties in procuring essential materials for
maintenance and repair, that adequate maintenance could have been taking
place, even if sufficient funds were available for this purpose (as suggested
in TTC reports).
3.43      Most of the covenants were appropriate, particularly the c venant
requiring TTC headquarters to submit audited accounts reflecting 1. 'oject
related revenues and expenditures.   In retrospect. however,  submission of
audited accounts for each of TTC's subsidiary did not appear to be of any
specific value under the scope of the project.
I. The Role of ID..
3.44      IDA's  role  in  the  supervision  of  this  project was  less  than
satisfactory, both in terms of IDA's frequency of supervision as well as
supervision quality.   A total of  39.5 staffweeks  or an average of 1.5
supervision missions per year were spent on this project, which, in
retrospect, turned out to be far too low for a project which faced major
execution problems  from start-up and throughout its evolution.   Staffing
continuity was not a problem under this project although it did not turn out
to be an enabling factor to efficiency.  IDA could have been more firm on
particular aspects of the project given the macroeconomic problems of the
country at the time. Instead, :DA took a soft approach e.g. making foreign
exchange available to contractors for importation of basic supplies.   In
hindsight, however, it did not work out and it highlights the lack of
commitment of management of TTC to the project.
3.45      In retrospect, the GOT might have benefitted and p.ysical progress
enhanced if a general mid-cycle implementation review of the project had been
undertaken by IDA.   This might have facilitated timely redefinition and
adjustments to the scope of the project and might have resulted in greater
effectiveness in the use of the country's scarce resources. It appears that
the project would have had a greater impact on the industry if the
rehabilitation works were scaled down by at least half, concentrating on, say,
six hotels as opposed to diluting efforts on twelve. TTC's supervision and
coordination would have been more manageable, contractual problems reduc;d,
transportation and comunication difficulties minim=zed, and the benefits of
civil works, electrical and mechanical repairs might have increased.   The



15
quality of IDA's supervision reflects largely the shift in sectoral priority
in the early 19809 when the Bank te.&mlnated its direct involvement in tourism.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
A. Hotels and Lodges
4.01      There have been a number of enhancements to the hotel facilities
and the industry as a vhole as a result of the project, which have led to
improved operating performance in some areas of TTC's hotels and lodges.
These include the establishment and improvement of radio comunication: an
intensive training program of hotel managers and service personnel; the
provision of vehicles in each hotel; and the renovation of staff housing for
hotel employees.
4.02      Most of the hotels and lodges are in a marginally better physical
condition than they were prior to the rehabilitation, having benefitted from
some mechanical. e.Lectrical and building works, additional furniture end
recreational equipment. Much more needs to be done, however; major upgrading
is required in order to rescue the structures from collapse, in extreme cases,
while. in others, to bring them up to international standards.
4 03      In terms of the impact of the rehabilitation on tourist arrivals
and hotel occupancy rates, recent statistics reveal that the package of
improvements introduced b' the project has done little to attract foregn
visitors to the country. A 502 decline in tourist arrivals was recorded for
Tanzania during the period 1975-85.   Kenya,  on the other hand,  a good
comparator for Tanzania, recorded an increase of more than 202 over the same
period.   Compared with three neighboring countries  (Kenya,  Botswana and
Zimbabwe) Tanzania recorded the lowest volume of tourists during 1975-84.
Foreign visitor bednights have been low (in several hotels far below the level
required to breakeven) as indicated in the tourism statistics in Annexes 8 to
11. Correspondingly, data on foreign exchange earnings per foreign bednight
(Annex 8) indicate declining rate of earnings.
4.04      The lack of improved performance in the industry can be attributed
to the following additional factors: (a) relatively high tariffs combined with
low standard of facilities; (b) fewer purchases of services offered by the
industry; and (c) leakages in foreign exchange controls.
B. Anti-Poaching Program
4.05      The anti-poaching program effectively implemented under the project
has led to increased attention to the need for protection of Tanzania's
wildlife.
C. Technical Assistance and Training
4.06      A t.ital of 10 technical  essistance experts were financed under the
project to strengthen TTC in various areas which are vital to operational
efficiency. The management operations of TTC have not significantly improved



ii
despite the technical assistance provided under the project. Four experts in
finance and hotel services were appointed.  The performance of the finance
experts was fair; manuals, systems and procedures we e introduced for use by
TTC.  The effectiveness of the nev procedures. however, was limitid by the
absence of an on-the-job training program.  Thus. while local counterparts
have taken over these key finance positions, they have not been able to
achieve  improvements  in standards.   This problem is complicated by the
difficulty TTC has experienced in retaining qualified local accountants and
financial managers because of the comparatively low pay offered by TTC.
4.07      Technical assistance for hotel services proved to be marginally
useful; it triggered further actions in setting up improved systems and
procedures in hotel operations (e.g reorganizing the hotel supply and
distribution systems, upgrading the hotels reservation and coumunications
system).
4.08      The participants in the training program were motivated and received
passing marks in their final exams. The success of the comprehensive training
program is evident in the relatively improved standard of performance in
several areas of hotel operations.  The cverseas training element has made
managers aware of the meaning of international standards. Much remains to be
done, but this initial effort has resulted in improvements in services and
operations.   The benefits of training can only be sustained, however, if
nece ary tools, spare parts and equipment are provided to adequately operate
hott facilities. Moreover, the training received under the project needs to
be continually reinforced to enhance the country's competitiveness in the
regional tourist arena in the long term.
4.09      In general, it appears that the dollar amounts spent would have been
more effective in the long term had the institutional needs, particularly in
finance and accounting, been more comprehensively evaluated at appraisal and
followed-up during implementation.  This might have helped to sensitize TTC
to the structural nature of its financial probler- and to the critical need
for long-term solutions. An action plan for upgra".ng the accounts department
might have been an important legacy of the project and a useful contribution
to the development of TTC's weak finance and accounts' section.
D. Marketing
4.10      The promotion and marketing abroad of Tanzania's tourism indust-y
was given addcd impetus under the project with the printing of marketing
materials and the opening of an additional foreign office in Stockholm.   A
total  of US$0.5 million was  expended on promotional materials  such as
brochures, films, slides, postcards, maps used by TTC hotels, travel agents
and overseas tourism offices.   Initial Government commitment to authorize
outlays for the marketing program was damoened, however, by the overall
shortage of foreign exchange and the recurrent cash flow problems of TTC. It
is difficu±t to assess the impact of zhis program on the industry since it was
shortlived (approximately two years), and all the foreign offices (13) have
now been closed for lack of financing, and, in any case, the physical
facilities in Tanzania for tourism are less than what would reinforce the
promotional campaign's messages.



12
V. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGDMENT & PERFORMANCE
5.01      Overall project  coordinat %n was vested  in the office of the
Principal Secretary, MN)&T. An expatriate project coordinator was appointed
for this purpose.  Startup difficulties. largely communication and adaptation
to country coniitions led to his early termination.  He ' u replaced by a
local coordinator within the TTC who oversaw the contracts related to the
hotel reb:bilitation component. The effectiveness of the local coordinator
was limited by lack of decision-making authority.   As the other major
components (i.e. construction of HTTI and airport improvements) were dropped.
the project became more streamlined and the coordination function placed
within TTC seemed to be apt and logical.
5.02      Because of its relative inexperience in supervising rehabilitation
works, and its weak capacity, TTC would have benefitted from a strengthened
project irit instead of having a single project coordinator. The project unit
concept would have been beneficially applied to TTC, providing it with the
team experience to supervise and monitor wide-ranging rehabilitation works and
transferring this experience to future operations.
5.03      TTC's  ineffcctiveness  in  coordinating  the  flow  and  pace  of
implementation was exacerbated by its sometimes strained relations with IDA
and TTC's perception of being sidelined during IDA's supervision of the
project.   TTC felt that the connecting point was the consultants as the
project coordinator (at TTC) was not kept fully apace with developments.
VI   FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
6.01      At appraisal the project was expected to contribute to a significant
strengthening of ITC's weak financial position to enable it to produce the
following results:
(a)   by 1982, internally generate sufficient funds to cover all debt
service and operating requirements, including normal capital
replacement;
(b)   by 1983, considerably  improve  its  liquidlity and debt  service
capability to produce a consolidated current ratio of 1.5 to 1 and
debt service coverage of 3.9, assuming no new capital expansion
projects  or  long-term  borrowings  other  than  those  already
initiated; and
(c)   in 1983, show a net income of about TSh 22 million,  representing
a return of 11.61 on equity and 62 on book-value of total assets
employed, compared with a return of negative 14.2Z on equity and
a negative S.9Z on total assets in 1977.
6.02       It has not been possible to evaluate the financial impact of the
rehabilitation project on TTC to the same degree as projected at appraisal.
The major reason has beer that TTC defaulted on the subsidiary loan agreement
between TTC and GOT signed in January 1979 which required TTC to start



1i
repayment in 1983.   Its failure to do so stems in part from delays in
apportioning the expenditures to the individual hotels because of deficient
record-keeping of project accounts, which makes it difficult to determine the
exact amounts of the project costs incurred at each hotel in order to levy the
appropriate charges.  Moreover,  despite the technical assistance received
under the project, TTC remains unable to produce its financial results
according to standard accounting principles  (para 6.03).   The accounting
section is in the process of attempting to bring its records up to date; this
is an important area in TTC's operations where a carefully targetted program
of technical assistance could have been provided under the project, but it
still remains critically lacking.  Based on financial and operational data
obtained from the accounting section of TTC, a partial assessment can be made
of its financial condition.
6.03       TTC's audited financial statements for the period 1980 to 1984
(Annexes 12 and 13) depict a continued, inconsistent and unprofitable
financial performance. While revenues from room sales and sales of food and
beverage have more than doubled over the five-year period 1980 to 1984,
largely due to regular price increases and the favorable exchange rates as a
result of the devaluation of the Tanzania shilling, during the same period,
expenses almost tripled, and salaries and other admiministrative overhead
accounted for more than 70Z of total expenses.   Debt  servicing,  mainly
interest payments, also grew substantially, from TShs3.2 million in 1980 to
TShs  6.1 million in 1984.   These  results are illustrative at best,  as
financial management controls and procedures at TTC and its subsidiaries do
not meet with standard requirements of a business enterprise. The auditors
were not able to provide an unqualified opinion about the accuracies of TTC's
accounts for several years because of significant inconsistencies in
reporting, specifically of depreciation charges, accounts receivables, cash,
interest on long term loans, and capital reserve.
6.04       Related to its financial weakness are the poor operational results
obtained in the industry: lower than anticipated tourism traffic (declining
by 50Z during 1975 to 1985); decline in foreign bednights as a percentage of
the total by more than 502 during 1975-1985.  Lower than anticipated hotel
sales did not allow several of TTC's subsidiaries to breakeven from year to
year.  It is unlikely that these facilities would be able to service their
debt (once apportioned) from internally generated funds without a sizeable
infusion of soft loans or subventions from GOT.  As such, the project has
defaulted on its financial goal3 agreed upon at appraisal as outlined in para
6.01 above and covenanted in the Credit documents.
VII. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
7.01       At appraisal,  the basic  rationale  for the  increased  economic
benefits to the sector was the increased visitor traffic to Tanzania brought
about by (a) the establishment of alternative transport to Tanzania following
the 1977 border closure with Kenya and the cessation of operations of East
African Airways (EFA); (b) hotel renovation and improvement in hotel services
provided by the project; and (c) lower prices attainable in Tanzania than
competing destinations offering similar services.   On the benefits side,



1t
increased visitor traffic to Tanzania was expected to result in higher hotel
occupancies and greater total expenditures by holiday and business visitors.
A second source of project benefits was expected to arise from increases in
room rates, averaging 102 in wildlife and beach hotels and 152 in city hotels
7.02       The related costs  included project  investment. replacement  of
investment, procurement of goods and services related to the incremental
guests and repair and maintenance. Maintenance costs were estimated at the
higher of 2 to 32 of replacement costs or 62 of hotel sales. Occupancy levels
of the various facilities was expected to expand, the ratio of operating costs
to sales to decline, reflecting the fixed cost component in total operations.
Based on the above cost and benefit streams a rate of return of 222 was
projected at appraisal.
7.03       The methodology  used at appraisal  included a second analysis
incorporating the costs of the airport terminal building, 452 of the cost of
marketing and 45S of the cost of the HTTI and costs of the tourist road to the
northern wildlif'  area lodges.   Added benefits  included the incremental
revenues to the MW.  Meru Hotel (non-project hotel) and the benefits to the
airport users. A parallel ex post analysis, however, was deemed unfeasible
because of the cancellation of relevant cost items needed for this analysis
(i.e., construction of the HTTI, and repairs to the airport terminal
buildi.xg), and the overall poor state of record-keeping.
7.04       It  is unlikely  that  the ex-post  analysis  could parallel  the
appraisal analysis in detail, as the same constraints identified above for
the financial performance have affected analysis of the economic effectiveness
of the project. Annexes 8 through 11 provide statistics on tourism flows and
revenues.  Visitor traffic and therefore hotel occupancies measured by the
room occupancy rates for the period 1979-1985 shoved a steady decline. Actual
bed occupancies registered far below appraisal project..jns for years 1980 and
1985 (the only two years for which ccmparable data exist). Correspondingly,
the ratio of foreign bednights declined continuously over the seven years of
project implementation, from high levels of 382 in 1979 and 41Z in the
following two years, down to 261 by 1985  (Annex 8).   Tourist  receipts
fluctuated in current shillings from TShs 170 million in 1980 to TShs 149
million in 1982 rising to TSha 199 million in 1983 then droppirg again to TShs
185 million by 1985. The periodic increases registered from year to year can
be attributed to price increases at periods of devaluation of the shilling.
In cturrent dollar terms, however, tourist receipts declined dramatically. By
1985,. foreign exchange earnings registered at 50 (US$10 million) of the
earnings of the peak year 1981. The actual project investment costs incurred
were higher than anticipated and for a much lover volume of work than
appraisal expectations.  Given the very low levels of incremental revenues
from year to year, and the slump in foreign tourism traffic, the actual rate
of return would be much lower than had been anticipated at appraisal and most
ikely even negative.
Additional Benefits
7.05       Direct beneficiaries of this project were expected to be (a) the
GOT; (b) employees in hotel and other tourist services; (c) owners of other



20
hotels catering to tourists; and (d) produa2rs of curios and handicrafts.
Thu budgetary gains that were to accrue to GOT were expected to be in the form
of reduction of subsidies and higher receipts of taxes on profits. By 1983,
taxes on TTC profits were expected to amount to TSh 20 million and after-taz
profits of TTC estimated to amount to TSh 22 million. Sales taxes on hotel
room ano full board rates, directly attributable to this project were expected
to add an incremental TSh 3 million. GOT revenues and incre-sental entry fees
to parks and wildlife areas were also expected to add a similar amount. As
indicated in Section V. financial and operational results indicate that these
targets have not been achievable and suggest that unless TTC reorganized,
perhaps even turning the cperations over to the private sector as is the case
in Kenya, the budgetary effects on the GOT could produce significant
incremental financial demands on the public treasury.
7.06       In terms of employment benefits, some 600 construction jobs were
expected during the construction period, and about 45S jobs created or siv_d
in TTC hotels as a result of the project. A similar number of jobs were to
be added in directly related areas such as shops, travel agencies, parks,
transportation services and handicrafts.  Hainly because of the generally
slower rate of growth in the tourism industry during the project, employment
performance since project commencement has not been as optimistic as
anticipated at appraisal.   Direct employment as a result of the project
amounted to about 600 by 1984 (i.e., from 2,400 in 1982 to 2,995 in 1986) but
declined steadily thereafter to about 2,500 at present, and further cuts are
planned in all areas of the industry, including hotels, state travel services,
TTC headquarters, gift shops, safaris and oversess offices.
7.07       The benefits from the marketing and promotion component were to
spread beyond TTC hotels to other hotel owners through increased occupancy
rates and earnings. Producers of curios and handicrafts were also to benefit
from the project through increased tourist expenditurea on curios and
handicrafts which were expected to reach abou' TSh 16 million compared to
about TSh 8 million in 1976. Despite the efforts and aspirations of the TTC.
the marketing and campaigning program had to come to an abrupt halt as funds
to maintain these initiatives were not made available.
7.08       Tanzania was expected to retain an average of about 722 of the
gross foreign exchange receipts it earned from the project. While the foreign
exchange inflows coming from tourist expenditures within the country has been
increasing in current sbillings over the years from Tshs 95 million in 1978
to an estimated Tshs 185 million in 1985, it is very unlikely that there has
been a net inflow of foreign exchange earnings over the project execution
period.    Given  the  significant  outflows  arising  from  replacement  of
investments, repair and maintenance costs (both current maintenance as well
as the accumulated backlog), operating costs and credit repayments, they would
exceed possible inflows from touriqt expenditures.  Further, weak exchange
controls, with implications of major leakages, worsened the foreign exchange
earnings' position from tourism. Government has tightened up these loopholes
and has initiated measures to tap a more significant amount of potential
benefits  derivable  from the tourist  industry.   These  include:  stricter
exchange control monitoring at points of entry, accommodation. and departure;
strengthening of the capacity of the exchange control offices; and enhancing



21
the quality of tourism sector data.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
A. Conclusions
8.01       The project was a sizgle, one-tim  operation done without the
benefit of plans or a vision for a long-term program of improvements in the
industry.  If this project was intended to stimulate the GOT to revive the
tourism industry, then the project has been a partial success. The GOT has
shown renewed interest in revitalizing tourim as evidenced by its frequent
discussions vith foreign investors to participate in the industry, including
divestiture of management responsibilities of TTC-owned hotels and lodges.
Opening up the industry to keen competition would further its revitalization.
TTC nov needs to introduce with urgency a major program of continued
rehabilitation, upgrading, and regular maintenance of project investments
already sunk in order to consolidate any gains made under the project. Its
limited manpover needs to be further strengthened and developed in order to
prepare for the challenges ahead.
8.02       With respect to the design of the project, it appears that a more
thorough review and analysis of the components prior to implementation might
have identified some of the weaknesses in design which afterwards became
apparent, and could therefore possibly have reduced the lengthy implementation
overruns. IDA nevertheless proceeded with the project as it considered that
conditions in Tanzania justified a start being made on addressing some of the
fundamental bottlenecks stifling the tourism industry.
8.03       Given the record of this project, the question arises whether the
GOT should have been involved in the hotel management aspect of tourism.  The
dollars invested in this project might have yielded appreciable returns if the
Government had focussed more on the policy aspects of tourism and on
facilitating more  involvement from the private  sector.   Success  in the
industry in the future would inevitably depend upon appropriate and efficient
management.
8.04       At this juncture, the Bank/IDA no longer provides direct financial
support for the development of tourim.   The Bank's  policy limits its
involvement to indirect support through specific investments such as
transportation, water supply and sewerage, urban services, financial sector
opArations and technical assistance. The GOT may find it useful to capitalize
on the Bank's involvement by encouraging increased participation of, and
further investments by, the private sector in revitalizing tourism.
B. Lessons
8.05       The following lessons have been derived from the experience of this
project:
l.    IDA should have been more realistic in its financial, operating
and economic expectations for the tourism industry in Tanzania
given the adverse economic climate in which the project was



22
identified  and  eventually evolved.    Logistical  and manpower
constraints in Tanzania were not realLstically assessed, and these
factors turned out to be major inhibitors of project efficiency;
ii.   IDA might have been more thorough in its analysis of the project's
components and might have been more selective in vhat could have
been realistically accomplished at the time; instead IDA tried to
cover too many minor repair tasks (in distant locations); more
serious rehabilitation work was left undone; the logistics
stretched the manageoent capacity of the project and reduced the
project's effectiveness;
iii. Technical assistance requirements should have been more effectively
assessed at appraisal and an appropriate program of technical
assistance provided to strengthen TTC in critical areas of
operations,  particularly  in  finance  and  accounting.    It  is
important for a country such as Tanzania to capture and retain some
of the benefits of project-related technical assistance after the
departure of the experts; and
iv.   IDA supervision would have been more effective if timely measures
were taken to redirect, adjust and redefine the project scope and
pace of implementation, particularly during the lengthy periods of
work stoppage.



OECT CWHPLETII KPT                                                  ANNE
TlNZUIA                                                   Table  I
TOIRISN REHAILITATION PROJECT (CRIT1? 80-TAI
Status of korks ExKeuted  s It Decoemr 1995
--------------------------------
Location of Contract Norks
Type of Contract :Kili.:Neu Afr:kunduchinikuai:mifia :Nanza1Lobo :Scron.,Nqoron,flanyafa:Safjri:Noshi:
------------------------- - -------------
Civil lorks             so8      90        so:  100:   30          95: 100 1   95         95       95:   go 1oo:
Pluding L Steam   '         '
Installation                    9 90:    95s  90  95:    0          :   so:   so:    95           90      95    95:
Airconoitionl        : '      '        '               '       '      :              : I               : t
Ventilation         190                  too 100         too     90:  90       90:    90         90    100   100:
Electrical           '
Installationis         75s1    75         97:    0:   98'   80 o -:    S0                95:      95    100   1001
Diesel               '        ,      '         '                      :      : '  '                                   I
Genurator              -       -        -    ,1001              -   :100    100:    100          100i 1  -   '  -
I     ,        I         ,       .       ,       ,      ,      I        ,        .       .
Cold Machinery       '                         :              :       : '  '  ,  ,            ,
Installation          I00'   100         100:               100 1001 100' 100:100       1o:    io    100:100'
Furniture Supply            : '      '         '       '       '      '      '
SRehabilitation        90'   90          100    I         90:    90   701   90           90 I '           9:      I '
Radio                '      '        ,         :       :       :       :     :       :        :
Communication          -  .   !00        100    100    1001  -   '100    100:    100:   100    100  o100
NOTE:
- wens 'not comissioned'
I furniture was approximately 75 percent complete, but was rejected
because of inadequate speification and poor worknship.
Minor additional isprovnmnts have been made at specific
locations subsequent to IDA's involvement, financed by GOT funds.



-24-
POECT COIWIUU 1EPT                                                        ANNM
TUZNIi                                                          Table 2
TOURISI KNAILITATI0   PJECT ICUIT k0-TA)
c o N T R A C T D- T A
(Asuts in Tsbi)
----- - ----------     ----------------     ----------------.-------
*           I~~                        ~      ~ t  H      I            I       
Loun                      Locatami                                        !Coutract  lld VaSlUi
Cat.  Description         Hotel lui       Coatractor          lationality:Date         TShs         :Final Cost
------------         -    ------------    ------             ------ .       ---------   --..----_.-----*  .  ---- * - -
sI)    Ciiil larks       Maoshi           United Iullders :Tanzania        Mar 1963   2,1i0, 036    2,141,691
Nov Safari                                                    2,170,651    2,326.,573
L. Manyafa                                                    4,220,'13    6,132,780
Naorongoro                                                    5,275,912    17, 34,481
Suranvra                                                      2,190,165     2,545,876
LoDo                                                          2,619,197      3,466,149
kg ftmnza                                                     2,305,724 !  4,110,211
*               I                                                          ........ I
;                ~~~~20,99,305    39,229,917
11)   Civil Works        Kaiatnjaro   Kassam Constr.   Tanzania            Sep.  1982! 4,094,625      4,461,919
Nov Africa                                                    4,548,"4    4,848,939
(1)   Civil  brkrs       Kunduchi         Sagqu Constr.      Tanzania      Oct. 1932! 4,006,427    *,857,69S
MIafi                                                         4,643,55'      2,670,071
f1)   Civil Works        Maikums         Ta; Mohamed         Tanzania      Sep. 19S2  3,160,543       4,614,620
Subtotil                                                                        41,336,236   58,763,234
2)   ELECTRICAL    ME
Plumbang &         all hotels  . 5s Intn'1             Tanzania     Apr. 1982:17,994,629   16,897,272
Stac&  Inst.       and lodge
(12 units)
Electrical Inst; all facil.
- inc. supply   except Miku-; SLS Intn'l             Tanzania    :May 1931   4,116,775         4,806.399
- bulk order    SI  I Lobo        91S Intnl                      !May 185   4,645,493        5,992,695
Diesel Senerato;
Plant             S facalat.      HIS  Intnl         'Tanzania    May 1991   1,759,000         2,192,550
Airhano. Unit    Kunduchi          915 In# 'I          Tanzania    :May  985   4,596,945        4,516,945
Airconditioning: All except    ETCO Ltd.               Tanzania     May 1S91   5,962,150        6,050,000
Airconditioning! Kunouchi          AISCO Ltd.          Tanzania          1S95   3,143,569       3,203,155
Nov Africa
Mikumi
Cold room          All
machinery         facilities    AISCO Ltd.            Tanzania    May 1S91   2,603,990         3,332,997
(2)   FURNITURf          All
Furn. rehab.       facilitin       Timber & Hard.   Tanzania             1993   2,172,397       2,689,774
12)   VEHICLES, E9UIP!
Vehicles                           Toyota              Japan
Landrover         ;U.K.
Australia
Radio  Cosm.       All except    Telefonalatam
Telephones        KM I NMM         Bolalet           Su den             1995
I c 



-25-
Sanitary mppl.                 I uita hlbn                    I          I           I             I
Arita, Shuskal                1                      I
I  C arro  Ltd.  I                192
Kitchn equip.                  0 HoNWds           U.K.             19t22  5,27,090    8 ,230,000
Tablsn  I & cb                                   Ich
(stainless ste.:                H Norton Coveln         I .K.         2 1  620,000 1    620,000 0
Laundry equip. I                Nybor            I    artwk    Aug. 19911 1,250,000 1 2,481,000
Opir. equip.                  0 Norton Covel     U.K.                   16,50,000   10,738,000
O Rebecca Vickers 1                   
RKreation
equipeent                    O U.I.N             U..         I                      a
Kristiensu.      Soe"de                 0                         a
Oa: Niishizaa Ltd.  IJap                                  I                        a
Carpeting                     I Bmnar & Hotex    U.K.          Feb. 19951   916,000    116,000
Spares                          Various supplisr                         I 2,300,000    2,722,000
Subtotal                      I                  a            a
(3)   Consulting                     0                 a            a          a
Services                       Coviconsalt      0011
Claus Browr 
! iik r & Berto               °
Subtotal   t   0               O                      O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,350,000   li 16156, B"
14)   Technical                                         :I Otaly, U.K.,l t -19SM   
Assistance                     10 Sp ecialists  lNolland, In!            
:Pakistan, N10                       41,2883,0 M
i                 Oln Zal nd    I        O. 
O  ~        ~~~ TouristConsult  ISwitzerlandO         
subtotal                                  
(5)   Marketing       OMOa^hler                         :Austri a    Oct. 19  a I             6,967000 
6 JYM   TOTAL   O                                                                    O
Contractors not ocntion d in above list: NEDCO, KJ Hotwrs



-26-
AMU
TWble 3
PIOJECT CUNPUT ION 
TYUAN! A
TOIMISN REWJILITATIOIN PROJECT iCRE3IT  O-TA)
Itemized Total ProjKct Costs
AWi ulO                 AW&riull  
Estiute   A ctul        Estimte   Actual
Tubs OOO   Tss'000 I USS'000    US SOOO
A.  Funiture, Fixturn & Equipmt                                 t
Plumbing and Stea                   O           0   21,000 0            I    1,500
Aircomditioning & Ventilation                   0   17,500           .       1,250 t
Electrical Installations                            10,790 1                   771 I
Dinesl 6enerator Plant                               2,192                     157
Comunications                                          900        1             64:
Cold Ra  ebachinery                                  3,333                     238
Sanitary Appliancen                                  1,500 0                   107
Kitchen Equipmnt                                     8,230 1                   586:
Stainless Stel Tabln  & Iehn ce620 t                                    I       44 
Laundry Equipment                                    2,481 1                   177
Operating Equipmt                                   10,738                     767
Furniture                                            2,690 0            0      192
Seafaris Equipmnt                               O    2,000                     143
Yehicles                                        t    2,500:                    179t
Spare Parts                                          2,722                     194
Additional Airconditioning                I                 I           O
Subtotal A                       37,5        89,196       4,696 1    6,371 0
1.  Civil  orvks                            23,970      58,763 1    2,996 t    4,197 t
C.  Professional Services n                   7,244      16,157         90*  0    1,15'.
D.  Marketing Egpendituren              '    6,688 :    6,967          83u  0       4"
E.  Tech.Asst. & Training                    6,592      41,288 0        824 0    2,949 0
F.  Contingencies n                     O r,220 t                    2,403 .
Subtotal Hotel Rehab.        0  101,280 1 212,371 0   12,660 '   15,169
6.  Antipoaching                             5 5,170 O    6,900         6 64 6      493 t
H.  Cons, Services n                         11,550       2,300:      1,444:        164t
1.  HTTI Construction            :          22,000         O -- O    2,750 0
J.  Airport Terminal                    :   16,000 '    --           2,000 0    --
TOTAL                        :  156,000 1 221.571 1   19,500 1   :5,827 0
Exchange Rate                             1:6          1:14 Uave)
- z::sza:::a::: asaz:sz::::::sz:z~~~~~~~~~.j~z:zam:uus:uz:s:z::zzzzuuuas~~~~~~



-27-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                                                       ANNEX
TANZMIA                                                               Table  4
TOURISN REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 860-TA)
Comparison 0f Appraisal and Actual Costs
A P P R A I S A L                 ,A C T U A L
, TShs        USS
TSh (millions)            US, (lillionsi         (millions)
Local  Foreign Total    Local  Foreign Total  :Total           Total
ZZsZsss:282s::s::ZZX::sta:X3XZ::::ZZ:XZssssM2232s2Zs s:ssszzzzzas:z sazzas::sss:sassosa:
A. Rehab. ei hotels
and lodges       18.90  49.80   67.70        2.35   6.11    8.46 1147.95        10.57
B. TTC uarketing
expenditures       1.40   4.40    5.80        0.19   0.54    0.7' '  7.00         0.50
C. HTTI                 5.70   9.70   15.40       0.71   1.22    1.93    0.00          0.00
D. Airport Terminal   3. 30   7.30   10.60        0.41   0.92    1.33 '  0.00         0.00
E. Technical Asst.
a. TTC              0.50   4.90    5.40        0.07   0.61    0.68 1 59.75         4.27
b. RTTI              0.80   7.30    8.10       0.10   0.91    1.01 i  0.00         0.00
F. Anti-poaching
equipment         0.60   3.20    ; 80        0.07   0.40    0.47    6.90         0.49
_      -- --   -- --    --  --    -- --  -- -- _---* --       *- _-_--
Subtotal           31.20  95.60  116.80        3.90  10.71   14.61 '221.60        15.83
Phvs. cont. (8l)   2.50   6.85    9.34         0.31   0.86    1.17 '
Price cont. (261)  8.11  22.26   30.37         1.01   2.79    3.80 '
-   ------  ------  ------   ------   -----   _ . _   _    _ , *__--   -
Subtotal conting. 10.61  29.10   39.71         1.33   3.64    4.97    0.00         0.00
TOTAL COSTS        41.81 114.70  156.51        5.23  14.35   19.58 '221.60        15.83
:WSst2 StX   :::sS S      :::SU: 2 SSXtS  S:SSSS zzzz  :Z::SUS  :SSSS_     '



-28-
PROJECT CORPLET ION REPORT
TANZANIA
TOURISI REN4ILITATION PROJECT 1CREDIT 960-TA)
ALLOCATION OF CREDIT EXPENIRTUMES
AMIOUNT OF CREDIT ALLOCATED IN US$ EGUIV.
CATEGORY                  (a)            (bl          lt)         (d)
(1)  Civil works               3,500,000   3,400,000   1,100,000   1,549,507
12) Furniture, fixtures,
equip. S vehicles        5,000,000   5,000,000   7.473,0e   6.384,617
(3)  Consulting service.
for (1) and (2)            400,000      360,000     700,000      57.,9855
(4)  Other tech. asst.         1,500,000   1,640,000   2,400,000   2,502,309
(5)  Narketin; expenses          500,000      500,000      700,000     424,952
(6)  Unallocated               3'100000   3,100,000        125,000           0
TOTAL                    14,000,000  14,000,000  12,500,000  11.437,239
Legend
(a) As published in the Developmnt Lredit Agreeent dated Jan. 22, 1979.
(b) As a"nded on April 1, 1982
(c) As amended August 15, 1994
(d) Actual results. In April 1916 USSI.1 sIhion of the reduced
Credit was cancelled.



-29-
ANNEX
Table 6
PROJECT  COMPLETION  REPORT
TANZANIIA
TOUR N REHABILITATTIOrN FROJ.ECT   OCREDIT 8t:-TA
-srior-mancSe ct Disbursements
..Actual vs Appraisal >
(US$ rnillions
!;ppr.   :Appr-.                       : ActuLal
;Est.     'CLnuml .       iActua'      'Cumul.
1980   1  :                                         '
Z  '    :>.4  '        s:).4         0.2
- ,    S      
4         .8           1.   '.8  '                  1 . O
1.9el   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
'981    1              F             I             
71 '    1 . 3  '       . . ) '       (, .')         1. 2 
-  ,   ,           |        1 1. t )  ,   1  .  2  ,:). 
4    . 4               5.4  1        0.0  i         1.2
1 98    1                                    21 .. 4
F  ..8        8~~~.26         00           62 .4
~~ ,    _ . 8  ,  8 . ~~~ '  ).O           . 4
- ,           F                        ,.0 )       2 . 4
4          C C)      11.             1.                 6
198-.   1                                       .8          4.4
2       2.. '        1 . 4             .           4.4
-  I          I              ,       1 . ? 1       5.6
4        '). 6       14. C:           ). :)         5.6
1984   1                                      0.4           6.0 .
_             F ,                    o 0. 0         6.0
-,            I              ,>C'.9                6.9
4I                                   0.0           6.9,
1985   1               :                      1.0           7.9  1
0.8           8.7
0.5  1        9.2
4                            I. :Z                  9.5
1986   1                                      1.8  i       11.Z
_ '                      ,         c0.1  11.4
=== = ====================



ANNEX
-30-                                                         Table 7
PROJECT CONPLiTION REPORT
TANZANIA
TOURISII ARE ILITATION  OJECT (CREDIT U0-TA)
Co4p1ance with Kajor Credit Covenants
Diw. Credit
A eoment
SectLons                     Covenant                                  Results
;.01 (0c       Couplet, a Subsidiary Loun                 In coupliancn
Agreemnt betwn  6ovt and TTC
3.01 (a)      Locate the HTTI in Dar es                   Condition met, but coponent
Salaaa on a site deteruined                finally deleted froo the project
in consultation iith IDA
'-02  (1)     Undertake study on financing                No longer relevant as the HTTI
operation of the NTTA                      was deleted froa  the project
3.02 (I)      iouinate head teacher                       No longer relevant as the HTTI
for HTTI                                  wvs deleted frou the project
;.03          60T to fund capital expenditures by   The situation did not arise
TTC in excess of Tsh2 siillion per
year if funds not received through
lcng-ters borrowing by TTC and if
TTC's ratio of current assets to
current liabilities after such
expenditures faill below 1:1
'.07          Upgrade major access road to                Some improvesents were
National Parks (Nakuyuni-Serengeti    carried out
Road) to all-weather standard
3.06          60T to continue to pursue policies          In copliance
consistent with preservation of wild-
life resources. GOT to furnish annually
to IDA report dealing mith wildlife
situation and results and antipoaching
activities.
Project
Aq.ueeent
Sections
: 02          Esploy a qualified and exper-               In compliance
ienced specialist to supervise
and coordinate hotel rehabili-
tation progras by DK. 1979
3.05          Prepare and submit to IDA a study           In compliance
examining feasibility and magni-
tude of real rate increases at
hotels and lodges by Dec. 1979
4.02          Audit accounts and furnish to               Nnt in compiance
'DA within 6 sonths after end of



PROJECT CORPK14i REPORT
TANZANIA                                                                       ANNEX
TOUUISN REHABILITATION PROJECT (CROIT 860-TA)                                                    Table  8
Sednights Sold and Foreign Exchange Earniaps-
*          ' Foreign        Avg RatgAvq.
; edn;hts in '000       3ednights:   Exchange    p.r bed IUngth
Year  -------------- ----    -                Tshs   USS   :night   :of Stay:
Daecitic Foreign Total   7 Foreign  mill.   ill.  IS0II    (days)
19751     467      5'2      999 '       53       9 a3 :  -   :          1 3.4 :
1976      436      562      9998        56.    8: a       3s       23     3.4:
1977      440      393      823:        47:    72:        9        23:    2.5
19791    589       318      907         35       95    12t        39:    2.4:
1979'    629       383    1012'         389    140'   19:          47:    6.0'
1980 '    661      453    1114 .        41      170 1 18          40 1   6.0
1991      695      486    1181'         41:    197       20:       41     6.6'
1992 .     o:      415    1216:         34      149t   15t         36S    6.4.
1993      842      397    12:9:         32'   199M    16:          40:   6.6:
1934     1037      364    1401:        2'1    177'   101          27:   6.1:
!985      lose88   393    1471          26:   185 1   10           261   5.1
Source: Tan:anisTourist Corporation



-32-                           ANNEX
Tablea 9
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
TCURISM REHAEILITATION PROJECT 'CREDIT 86o-TA)
Comparative Forelqn E:-change EarnxnQs
kUSS Millions)
Year 'Tanzania :k:enya :Zimbabw.lZambia
1976         13    103 : n.a.          13
1977          9    121 1      15 '    13
1978 '       1  :  158 .      15 .    13:
1979         1s    176         18i    15
1980         18 : 2_O :       16 .           -}
1981 '          :O  240 :     17       45
198'         15    19 2       2O   n.a.20
1989* '16 :  152              26   n.a.
1984         10    190 '0 , n.a.
1985         l0    196    n.a.   1 n.a.
Source: Tanzania Tourist Corporation



-33-                                                 ANNEX
Table 10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 660-TA)
Roce occupancies bv Hotel 1977-1997
1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1992 1983 1984 1985 1996 1987
Location/Name o; Unit
DAR ES SALAAN
Oilimanjaro Hetel         93   95   95   95   92   92   46   63   63   89   90
New Airica Hotel          97   95   99   94   88   86   93   94   90   75   79
DAR ES SALAAH BEACH
tunduchi Beach Hotel    62   80   87   64             ' "    33   32   39   50   53
NORTHERN hILDLIFE
Lake Manvara Hotel        17   19   27   25   27   25   21   31   26   31   45
Ngorcngoro H life L.    '0   17   22   20   32   19   21   31   40   41   62
Seronera N/'Ife Lodge   14   17   29   29   22   24   20   24   29   38   55
Lobo W'life Lodge           7    9   15   11   12    9    6    7    9   13   20
ARUSHA/MOSHI
Moshi Hotel               32   38   40   45   48   97   67   73   75   71   64
New Safari Hotel          35   35   44   35   43   40   53   67   65   67   64
Mt. Meru Hotel             15   29   42   40   51   40   41   44   40   37   45
OTHERS
Mikumi W life Lodge       32   29   34   40   33   40   44   50   44   59   60
Mafia Is. Lodge            16   24   24   22   17   20   31   22   29   20   24
Ne. Nyanza Hotel          68   77   89   49   76   60 n.a. n.a. n.a.   73   S1
Weighted Average       45   50   48   44   45   45   39   52   52   44   49
Source: PCR Mission Compilation
NOTE: These figures are seant to be illustrative and represent
the best estimate (within a 10 to 15 percent margin of error)
based on data provided by TTC.  The data were often inconsistent
and conflicting containing nuserous arithmetical flaws.
Caution should be used in citing these figures.



-34-                                                            NE
ANNEX
Table 11
PROJECT CWULETION REPORT
TANZANIA
TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDJT 860-TA)
Actual vs. Projected led Occupancy Raten of TTC Hotels
! No. of!   1976    9I0I   : 1934          1951   :19    :  1117 :
Lucitlon/Nall of Unit: Olds : Actual OProj Actual :Actual Proj Actual Actual: Actual:
DAR ES SALAAN          '       '                      o                            a       a
Kiliaunjaro Hotel          392'      53    57    75       41    57    43       561    540
oew Africa Hotel           159        99:   90    51'   94    90    91 t   80           83
DAR ES SALAAH  EACH                      O
Kunduchi Beach Hotel '   200 '        43    50    46 0   24 1  70    31'   41 1    43
I       a         .            I       ,            a       ,    
NORTHERN WILDI'FE    !
Lake Manyara Hotel         202:      56:   30    25'   25:   71    29:    29            44:
Ngoronoroe 'life L.        1564       53    29    24:    32:   69    340   32 :         58 1
Seronera 'lifu Lodge!   150           34    19    28:    23    44       9 1    36 '    SO :
Lobo W'life Lodge          150        361  20    11        itI   47      9     40 '    211
ARUSHA/NOSHI           ,         '       ,                    a            a       a       a
Nosha Hotel            0 108          37    29  n.a.       78 1  39    63      76 0      5S
New Safari Hotel       '   113:       61    32  n.a.      58 1  60    51 ' 5            52
Mt. eru Hotel              392     n.a.   21    27J    34 1  54    30          27       33'
OTHERS
Nikuei H'iift Lodge  '    96 '        35 I  33    29:    43 '  46    39'   164          49
Mafia Is. Lodge        '    60        20    20    16       171  50    23:       9'    220
Now fvanza Hotel       : 112:'        45 0 52    45'   42   70    58:   41              46'
Weighted Average       176        45 50                4 4          42      45       49:
Source: PCR Mission Coaputations



-35-
AIR=
Table 12
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
TOURISN REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 960-TA)
.OMPARATIVE BALANCE SHEETS OF ALL TTC HOTELS 1end Decemberl
(Tsh'O00)
1980              1981                1982                 1983               1984
APPM    ACTUAL    APPR    ACTUAL    APPR    ACTUAL    APPA    ACTUAL    ACTUAL
Current Assets
Cash                               13,190   16,044   16,060   16,021   18,450   21,907   26,680   14,758    4,066
Inventories                       14,170   24,409   16,180   24,382   18,040   32,514   21,360   27.298   17,117
Receivables                       30,120   50,994   38,990   52,650   47,320   63,917   56,990   87,32S   37,600
Total Current Assets              57,470   91,447   71,130   93,053   83,810  118.238  105,020  129.391   59,803
F!zed Assets
Net Fixed Assets                 225,320  185,228  251.640  451,599  250,430  429,360  242,680  409,920  368,843
Other L.T. Assets                  12.650    8,567   15,510    c,367   20,960    4,706   17,070    4,602    2,116
Total Assets                     295,440  19:        '38,280  457,965  355,200  433,066  364.770  414,522  370,959
Current L:abilities
Creditors & Accruals              30,120    3,4131   :8,890   85.744   47,320  101.837   56,990  110,716   91,121
Bank Overdrafts                    '6,550    5,213   35,660    2,120   11,340    2,875              0    1,951    2,671
Current Maturities                 12.550    4,297   11,910    5,808   11,730   12,679   10,870   15,011   11,660
Total Current Liabil.             79,220   92,941   86,460   93,672   70,390  117,390   67.850  127.678  105,452
Long Term Loans                    85,550  103,727  103,900  107,452  108,970   96,779   98,100   94,961   37,192
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  164,770  i96,66,8  190,360  201,124  179,360  214,169  165,950  222,639  142,644 U                      W
Capital                           215,650  145.194  224,490  413,655  229,010  413,721  230,220  427.373  417,136
Retained Earnings                  (84,980)(148,067)  (76,570)(156,814)  (53,170)(194,924)  (31,420)(235,490)(198,821)
Net Worth                          130,670    2,873) 147,920  256,841  175,840  218,897  199,800  191.883  2218,315
TOTAL LIABIL.1 NET WORTH          295,440  193.795  338,280  457,965  3'5,200  433,066  364,750  414,522  370,959
NET WORKING CAPITAL                (21,750)   (1,494)  (15,330)     (619)  13.420        848   37,170    1,703  (46,649)
Current ratio                         0.73      0.99      0.92      0.99      1.19      1.01      1.55      1.01      0.56
Debt/equity ratio                     0.65      0.00      0.70      0.42      0.62      0.44      0.49      0.49      0.16



-36-
ANNEX
Table 13
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 860-TA)
COtfARATIVE IKCOME STATEMENTS OF ALL HOTELS
lTShs 000)
1980                1981                1992                1993               1984
APPR   ACTUAL       APPR   ACTUAL       APPR   ACTUAL       APPA   ACTUAL    ACTUAL
Revenue
Rooms                             59,790   64,565   79,940   77,770  100,650   92.740  119,490   77.932   93,100
Food & Beverage                   80.320  107,127  101,940  133,919  123,060  174,833  147,170  199,604  270,615
Others                            43,100    7,247   54,920    7,429   64,160    9.610   79,760    8.769   10,696
Total Revenue                    183,210  178.939  236,600  2;9,117  287,970  267,183   46,610  286,304  374,411
Co;t of Sales
Rooms                             10,150   10o606   12,790   11,970   15,310   14,892   18,120   19,078   i5,774
Food & Beveuage                   60,930   79,126   76,030   96,686   90,710  126,748  106,710  135,925  170,699
Others                            "5,380      7,7;9   20.240    7,826   25,630   10,557   32,190   10,568   14,121
Total Cost of Sales               86,460   97,471  109,050  116,492  131,150  152,197  157,070  164,571  200,593
Sross Operating Income             96,750   81,468  127,850  102,635  156.720  114,986  189,590  121.733  173,918
Undistributed Expenses
,'dmin.   6eneral                 51,400   45,840   59,150   59,682   60,170   oB.289   67.120   78.967  117,543
Repairs   M Maintenance            11,240    6,825   14,020   11,584   16,410    9,631    19,020   !2,091   20,146
Heat, Light & Power                9,090   12,902   11,490    9,343                  14.860   16,100   18.067   12,680
Total Undistr. Expenses           71,730   65,467   83,660   90,609   76,580   92,779  102,240  109,025  150,369
nouse Profit/Loss                  25,020   1b.001   44,190   22.026   80,140   22,207   97,350   12,709   23,449
Usage of Operational Assets
Linen                                         1,191                 414               1,524                  594       479
Cutlery/Crockery                                958                 444                 646                 830        549
Slassware/Tableuare                             421                 ;90                 480                   90       614
Total Uc;qe Oper Assets                       2,570               1,238               2,650               1,504    1,642
General Expenses
Management fees                               9,994              11.667              13,956              15,157   20,039
Loan Interest                       5,040    3,171    7,900    5,387    5,700    5,337   11,000    5,931    6,145
Depreciation/iAort.               20,230    9,559   23,980   20,561   28,930   17,701   34,240   18,901   21,109
Total 6eneral Expenses            25,270   22,613   31,980   37,615   34,630   36,994   45,240   39,989   47,293
Other Income                           510    4,543    3,600    5,242    8,37,    5,973   20,360    6,661    7,394
Net Profit/Loss Pretax                (760)  (4,639)   9,710  (11,585)  37.140   ll,464)  21,750  (22,124) (18,102)
Working ratio                         u.39      0.37      0.35      0.37      0.27      0.35       0.29      0.38      0.40
Operating ratio                       0.50      0.42      0.45      0.46      0.37      0.41       0.39      0.45      0.46



I  I.   IND 1369
-*    KENYA
Nj.0
.t ' t . .dODO . 40 4 r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A N Z A N I A
MWMZA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TNAI
Z A  I R E        0.D .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6**;if"<                                             A.    .CN
IAIIA' rZX  ;   -  + -s  X   9to i  w|   fl QC74oMBATANZANIA
TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
g,                         <  H  _ j f- *  TANOA  +NoI-ool irk. O pono r*,*,v*1
R.gi-l b .o.od.,;.$
g   /   <4lunquo     b         )        6 W-    y         =       -ifor " Soloon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,l,~l,nO buno'*
o 204661011    020D 24
\  X ,  2   . '' ' ' .' '       'S    '   S           .- '/              f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
o    20    40    eo    8o    'oD   120    Q0   160
NI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N.
Z A M B I A                                                                                                                                        9,8
1      {    )                    n W ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                ~~A VV '   F  <  
I  \  /              ,  5            r--_    r  _                        ,}   ~~~~~~~MO ZA M B IQ U E                        ETR18



