Document of   FILE  COPY
The World Bank                                         7
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2138-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TANZANIA
TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 20, 1978
Tourism Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TANZANIA
TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =    Shilling (TSh)
US$1              =    TSh 8
TSh 1             =    US$0.125
TSh 1 million     =    US$125,000
MEASURES
1 meter (m)      2        =    3.28 feet
1 square meter (m )       =    10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)       2  =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km ) =    0.39 square miles
1 hectare (ha)            =    2.47 acres
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
HTTI    -  Hotel and Tourism Training Institute
MNR&T   -  Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism
NCA     -  Ngorongoro Conservation Authority
SSLL    -  Serengeti Safari Lodges Ltd.
STS     -  State Travel Service
TAFICO  -  Tanzania Fisheries Corporation
TANAPA  -  Tanzania National Parks
TDFL    -  Tanganyika Development Finance Ltd.
TIB     -  Tanzania Investment Bank
TTC     -  Tanzania Tourist Corporation
TWC     -  Tanzania Wildlife Corporation
TWICO   -  Tanzania Wood Industries Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Government:     July 1 - June 30
TTC:         January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
Page Number
I.      The Tourism Sector                                        1
A.  Tourism Assets                                        1
B.  Government and Public Attitudes
Toward Tourism                                      1
C.  The Hotel Industry                                    2
D.  Visitor Trends                                        3
E.  Infrastructure                                        4
F.  Training                                              5
G.  Contribution of Tourism to the Economy                5
H.  Social Aspects of Tourism Development                 6
II.     Executing/Borrowing Agencies                              6
A. The Ministry of Natural Resources
and Tourism (MNR&T)                                 6
B. Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA) and
Ngorongoro Conservation Authority (NCA)             8
C.  The Tanzania Tourist Corporation (TTC)               10
D.  Ministry of Works                                    12
III.    The Project                                              13
A.  Project Objectives and Content                       13
B.  Project Components                                   14
IV.     Project Cost, Financial Plan
Implementation, Procurement and
Disbursement                                           19
A.  Cost Estimates                                       19
B.  Financial Plan                                       21
C.  Project Implementation                               22
V.      Demand and Market Prospects                              26
A.  Tanzania's Tourism Potential                         26
B.  Visitor Forecast by Region                          27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Page Number
VI.      Financial Analysis                                      31
A.  TTC Corporate Structure                            31
B.  TTC Financial Management                           31
C.  Current TTC Financial Condition                    33
D.  TTC Financial Prospects                            36
VII.     Economic Justification                                  38
VIII.    Agreements Reached During Negol'aLionis                 44
ANNEXES
I.       Tables                                                  47
II.      Hotel and Tourism Training Institute                    68
Appendix I   -  Sources of Candidates and
Qualifications Required               76
Appendix II - Profiles of Technical Assistance
Experts                               77
Charts 1 - 6                                         81-86
III.     Principal Assumptions Used in the Financial
and Economic Analysis                                87
IV.      Related Documents and Data Available in
the Project File                                     94
Map      IBRD 13689
The appraisal mission consisted of Messrs. A. Mates, L. Vera,
I. Christie, P. Murgatroyd, T. Persaud, P. Kontopirghos (consultant)
and Ms. J. de Regt, who visited Tanzania in March and May 1978.



TANZANIA
TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. THE TOURISM SECTOR
A. Tourism Assets
1.01      Tanzania's impressive tourist attractions combine spectacular
scenery, wildlife, and beaches with historical and archaeological sites.
The wildlife resources are among the finest in the world and include the
Serengeti Plains, Ngorongoro Crater, and Lake Manyara in the north and the
relatively undeveloped Selous Game Reserve in the south. These game
reserves, together with the attraction of Africa's highest mountain,
Kilimanjaro, have long been part of an established East African tourist
circuit. Additional attractions include the sandy beaches north of
Dar es Salaam, the exotic "spice island" of Zanzibar, and excellent deep
sea fishing at Mafia Island. Along the Indian Ocean coast are the remains
of ancient settlements, and Olduvai Gorge, in the interior Rift Valley,
is the site of discoveries of the traces of earliest man. To the visiting
tourist, Tanzania also offers interesting arts and crafts, most notably
the Makonde sculptures and carvings done in ebony.
B. Government and Public Attitudes Toward Tourism
1.02      Prior to 1970, the Government invested heavily in tourist faci-
lities mainly through its National Development Corporation. The peak in
state hotel construction was reached in 1969/70; by that year tourism
accounted for 5% of total parastatal organization assets.
1.03      In 1970, the national daily newspaper published a public debate
on the compatibility of tourism and socialist development in Tanzania.
This debate was started by the Party Youth League at the University in
response to (a) a request from the President to critically examine all
aspects of socialist development, (b) intensive construction of notels
then taking place, and (c) the start of a consultants' study and master-
plan for further tourism development in Tanzania. The debate focused on
the apparent contradiction between socialism and tourism; although the
Government did not participate directly in this debate, the impression
was created, especially among private entrepreneurs, that the Government
was not supporting the sector.
1.04      In 1973, following the public debate and the presentation of a
consultants' study, the Economic Committee of the Cabinet decided to



-2-
avoid major expansion in tourist facilities and to concentrate instead on
consolidation of existing investments. The Economic Committee also
decided to prohibit private investments inside the national parks and,
even though investment in other areas was not forbidden, the private
sector became extremely cautious and refrained from further investment.
1.05      With the economic crisis of 1974, operating conditions of both
state and private sector hotels worsened. Scarcity of foreign exchange
and the low priority given to tourism meant that practically no foreign
exchange was made available to hotels. Consequently, hotels were unable
to purchase maintenance materials, spare parts, and necessary replacements.
At the same time, there were shortages of essential domestic goods, such
as meat and oil.
1.06      In 1975, the attitudes of the Government and the Party and
their constituencies changed gradually as more information became available
on the contribution of tourism to foreign exchange earnings and employment
and as the Government became confident that, through proper education of
the population, the feared adverse impact of tourism on political and
social values could be avoided. The Party and hotel managements also
started a campaign to educate workers on the proper value of tourism.
In late 1975, the Government sought advice from the Association on how to
maximize benefits from the existing tourism assets.
1.07      In 1976 and 1977, the Government relaxed its restrictions on
foreign exchange. Specifically, it allocated foreign exchange to the
Tanzania Tourist Corporation (TTC) to replace its fleet of tour vehicles,
and more funds were made available for promoting Tanzania's tourist attrac-
tions. Hotels were allocated foreign exchange to purchase goods from
abroad, and maintenance expenditures at state hotels were increased. In
recent discussions with the Association, the Government has emphasized
that it would provide adequate foreign exchange for the tourism
industry.
1.08      In a reversal of previous policy, the Government is now urging
the private sector to invest in tourism. At the end of 1977, the Minister
of Natural Resources and Tourism, on behalf of the Government, invited all
private investors, national and foreign, to invest in tourism. He stated
that the Government had no intention of nationalizing this sector and that
all foreign investors were protected under the Foreign Investment Protection
Act of 1963, which guarantees foreign investments against expropriation.
The Association of Hoteliers was revived in early 1978, and discussions on
the needs of the private sector were initiated between Government and
private hotel operators.
C. The Hotel Industry
1.09      Total hotel capacity in Tanzania is about 3,600 rooms and 6,900
beds (Annex I, Table 1). Of these, about 2,300 rooms and 4,500 beds are
considered to be of international standard. They are located in Dar es
Salaam (25%); along the coast (21%); in the northern wildlife area (26%); in
Arusha/Moshi, which serve as access to the northern wildlife area (10%);



-3-
in Zanzibar (7%); and in other areas (11%). The main expansion in hotel
capacity took place in the late 1960s, peaking in 1970 when capacity
increased by 1,700 Deds. After 1970, capacity increased by only 3%
annually, reflecting the uncertainties regarding the future of the sector
in Tanzania.
1.10      Hotels in Tanzania are owned by both Government agencies and
private entrepreneurs, some of whom are foreigners. At the end of 1977,
the Tanzania Tourist Corporation (TTC), a parastatal organization, con-
trolled about 2,300 beds or over 45% of international standard hotel
capacity in Tanzania. In addition, TTC has minority shareholdings in two
other international hotels that account for an additional 10% of accommo-
dation capacity. Of private sector hotel accommodations, about two-thirds
are owned by Tanzanians.
1.11      The cost of hotel construction in Tanzania varies according to
category, size and location. Construction costs have increased by 10%
annually since 1975. It is estimated that, in 1978 prices, investment cost
per room for new hotels in Tanzania ranges from over US$40,000 for a four-
star city hotel to US$25,000 for wildlife lodges. These costs are roughly
in line with construction costs experienced in neighboring countries.
1.12      Financing for investments in tourist facilities is available
from the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB), Tanganyika Development Finance Ltd.
(TDFL), and from the National Bank of Commerce. While the first two
institutions are involved in loans as well as equity participation, the
third finances only working capital. Financing by these institutions is
available to both Government and private entities. TDFL, since its
inception in 1962, has committed about 10% of its protfolio to hotel pro-
jects, including a substantial equity position in two hotels. The TIB
also lent close to 10% to tourism and hotel development but made little
investment in the form of equity capital.
D. Visitor Trends
1.13      In 1974, of all foreign visitors to Tanzania, 73% were tourists
on holiday, 18% were on business, and 9% were unclassified (Annex I,
Table 2). This distribution is similar to that available for 1969 (75%
and 25%). Although about 90% of those on business arrived by air, as
many as 40% of the holiday visitors arrived by land; this reflects the
importance of the road circuit that routed tourists from Nairobi through
Tanzania's major game parks (located just over the Kenya/Tanzania border)
and back to Nairobi.
1.14      Tourist flows rose rapidly in the 1960s and early 1970s as
Tanzania changed from a discovery area to an important tourist destination.
Increased popularity of safari tours in Africa as well as construction in
Tanzania of additional hotels of international standard helped sustain
this increase. Visitor arrivals show an increase from about 62,000 in
1969 to about 140,000 in 1974, the last year for which arrival data are
available. However, this growth rate is overstated since the definition



-4-
of a visitor was expanded during the period to include Kenyan and Ugandan
residents. A better measure of visitor traffic is provided by the number
of bednights in registered hotels. These show an increase from about
295,000 in 1969 to 560,000 in 1976 or about 10% annually despite a marked
slowdown in the latter part of the period (Annex I, Table 3). Partial
figures for 1977 indicate a sharp reduction in tourism traffic due to the
closure of the border with Kenya and the cessation of operations of East
African Airways in early 1977. During the first nine months of 1977,
visits to the northern national parks showed a 70% decrease from 1976
(Annex I, Table 4); visitor bendights and occupancy levels in northern
wildlife lodges in 1977 showed a similar decline (Annex I, Tables 5 and 6).
1.15      Large tour operators in Europe and North America (the major
tourist-generating markets) were reluctant after 1972 to offer tours to
Tanzania. They could not be certain of the quality and reliability of
services provided and, in some cases, were liable to compensate disenchanted
visitors. This is reflected in the visitor statistics: Between 1972 and
1976, overall European and American visitor bednights decreased by 2% and
5% respectively per annum (Annex I, Table 3). As of 1976, Europeans
accounted for 40% and Americans for 20% of visitor bednights, down from
50% and 28% respectively in 1972. Average length of stay in Tanzania
declined from 4 days in 1972 to 3.5 days in 1974 reflecting the reduced
number of tours to Tanzania and the increased preference for short trips
by land from Kenya.
E. Infrastructure
Airports
1.16      Tanzania is served by two international airports:  Kilimanjaro
and Dar es Salaam. Kilimanjaro Airport was completed in 1971 at a cost
of TSh 102 million (about US$14 million). The airport, which was financed
by Italian aid, is capable of accommodating Boeing 747s. At present, only
four international carriers land at Kilimanjaro, and the airport is under-
utilized. Alternatively, at Dar es Salaam Airport, from 1966 to 1976,
passenger traffic grew by 10%, freight by 8%, and aircraft movements by
7% annually.
1.17      Dar es Salaam Airport is the main international port of entry
and the hub of the domestic air transport system. It is served by 18
scheduled and 20 nonscheduled carriers. The airport currently handles
about 1,200 passengers per day, but its facilities are inadequate. Pro-
cessing of arriving passengers is extremely slow, the luggage handling
system is inefficient, and the departure lounge is too small to handle
demand at peak hours.
Roads
1.18      The main access to Tanzania's national parks is by road.  Although
the roads within the national parks are adequately maintained and passable
throughout the year, some of the roads leading to the parks, especially



-5-
to the popular northern wildlife area, are poorly maintained. During the
rainy season they are frequently flooded and can be used only by four-
wheel drive vehicles.
F. Training
1.19      In the 1960s and early 1970s, training of hotel staff was mostly
carried out on the job, with one exception: A hotel management company
established a small school in one of its hotels for basic-level training.
In 1972, TTC took over this school and, with Dutch technical assistance,
continued to offer basic courses. In July 1977, the responsibility for
manpower development in the tourism sector (and therefore for the hotel
training school) was transferred to the Ministry of Natural Resources and
Tourism (MNR&T).
1.20      The present hotel training school is located in central Dar es
Salaam on the premises of an old hotel, which is a historical landmark
whose structure cannot be altered. The school offers basic three-month
courses for five hotel occupations. Since the technical assistance team
has recently left, only few qualified instructors remain. Furthermore,
hoteliers feel that the curriculum does not reflect the training needs of
the sector.
G. Contribution of Tourism to the Economy
1.21      According to figures published by the Bank of Tanzania, foreign
exchange earnings from tourism rose from TSh 80 million (US$11 million)* in
1969 to TSh 119 million (US$16 million)* in 1972. By 1976, foreign exchange
earnings from tourism had fallen to TSh 88 million (US$11 million). Al-
though the figures are incomplete and tend to underestimate foreign ex-
change receipts, they do indicate general trends and orders of magnitude.
1.22      Although Tanzania's foreign exchange earnings from tourism have
been relatively small, there is potential for substantial growth. Kenya,
whose tourism attractions are similar to those of Tanzania, earned over
US$100 million from tourism in 1976. Furthermore, Kenya's tourism earnings
as a share of GNP were about 3%, and, as a share of exports of goods and
services, about 9%. For the same year, Tanzania's earnings from tourism
only amounted to 0.4% of GNP and 2% of exports of goods and services.
1.23      Employment in hotels and restaurants is estimated at 4,500 in
1977. The average ratio of employees per bed is about 0.7, which is
similar to that for neighboring countries. About 40% of the employees are
unskilled, 45% can be considered semiskilled, and about 15% are in
managerial and supervisory positions. Eight percent of the hotel employees
are women, who work mostly in housekeeping, administration and accounting.
Direct employment in tourist activities other than hotels (airlines,
national parks, travel agencies, tour operators, handicrafts) is estimated
at an additional 4,500; this brings total direct employment generated by
tourism to 9,000.
* At the then prevailing exchange rates.



-6-
1.24      Semiskilled workers in TTC hotels earn TSh 5,000 to 6,000
(US$625-750) per year, whereas the legal minimum wage is TSh 4,200 (US$525)
per year. Supervisors earn from TSh 10,000 (US$1,250) per year upwards.
H. Social Aspects of Tourism Development
1.25      As noted in para. 1.03, in the early 1970s, the Tanzanians
generally viewed tourism development and its impact on the local population
unfavorably. Tourism was considered one of the many influences that could
interfere with the process of seeking and formulating a national identity.
This conflict has been largely overcome. The Tanzanians have now built
a national identity, which is constantly reinforced through the formal and
the Party's nonformal education systems.
1.26      Tanzania's principal tourist attractions, the game parks and
beaches, are relatively isolated, and the beach hotels are also a fair
distance from Dar es Salaam. Therefore, contact between tourists and the
local population is limited. However, the Government is attempting to
bring tourists into closer contact with all aspects of Tanzanian culture;
for example, a resolution was recently passed that the National Dancing
Troupe and other artists will perform only in the midst of Tanzanian life,
i.e., in villages and towns, rather than in hotels.
1.27      Tourists come into contact with traders and producers of handi-
crafts, especially Makonde wood sculptors and ivory carvers. Makonde art
forms, once restricted to rigid religious tribal rites, are now produced
freely, and modern forms have emerged. Tourism and export demands have
generated a certain amount of mass production, but most artists will still
make truly creative pieces.  Lately a new carving style expressing the
spirit of "Ujamaa" has appeared--these carvings depict a system of inter-
dependent people. All sales and export licensing for both wood and ivory
carvings are controlled by the Government.
II. EXECUTING/BORROWING AGENCIES
A. The Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism (MNR&T)
2.01      The Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism (Chart I) is
responsible for policies affecting development of wildlife resources
through its Wildlife Division and for formulation of tourism policies,
hotel classifications, and supervision of the hotel training school
through its Tourism Division.
2.02      The Wildlife Division is directly responsible for wildlife
management outside the national parks (national parks are managed by
Tanzania National Parks as described in para. 2.06). The Division is
responsible for licensing and setting hunting quotas, for controlling
and limiting wildlife cropping and for anti-poaching efforts outside the
national parks. It is also in charge of construction and maintenance



MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND TOURISM
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
MINISTER
PRINCIPAL
SECRETARY
PLANNING                                     AUDITOR
UNIT
DIRECTOR                                  MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION                         >   a
DIRECTOR
TOURISM      --------I       WILDLIFE       r-,TWC                           FORESTRY                         FISHERIES
DIVISION .   |       j       DIVISION         ------- l__DIVISION                             ------          DIVISION          -------
...... i------ TTC  ______----4TWICO g                                             ---iTAFICO,
TT  ,                         -,TANAPA                                         ________                         ________
DIRECTOR      -------        DIRECTOR         I-------                       DIRECTOR                         DIRECTOR
' jNCA
HOTEL
_TRAINING
SCHOOL



-8-
of infrastructure in game reserves, for training of guides, and for some
wildlife research.
2.03      The Tanzania Wildlife Corporation (TWC), a parastatal organi-
zation, is engaged in cropping and animal capture, has a monopoly on
trophy mounting, and manufactures a range of wildlife products.
2.04      The Government of Tanzania has recognized the importance of
conserving its vast wildlife resources and of utilizing these resources
rationally; these policies were summarized in the Wildlife Conservation
Act of 1974. Tanzania's national parks, game reserves and game controlled
areas (25% of the country) are among the best managed in East Africa.
Animal inventories, research, and monitoring programs, are carried out
continuously and form the basis for game cropping. Due to recent in-
creases in animal population, hunting safaris have been allowed since
mid-1978 under special licenses and strict control. Sustained yield
management allows the country, through the commercial operations of the
Tanzania Wildlife Corporation, to earn from sales of hides, skins and
trophies. The Government attitude towards safeguarding the wildlife
resources is firm; it maintains substantial anti-poaching forces and
imposes stiff penalties on convicted poachers.
2.05      The Tourism Division within the MNR&T (Chart II) is responsible
for sectoral planning, manpower training and development, and classifi-
cation and licensing of hotel and travel agencies. In general, the
Division's staff is not sufficient to meet these responsibilities fully.
The Division is now in the process of developing a tourism law that
will regulate the classification, licensing, and staffing of tourist
facilities and has requested bilateral technical assistance for the
formulation of this law and for the development of a hotel inspection
system. The Division is also, through its training section, monitoring
the studies program and operation of the hotel training school. To
improve the manpower training expertise within the Division, technical
assistance to the Ministry would be provided under the proposed project.
B. Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA) and
Ngorongoro Conservation Authority (NCA)
2.06      Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA)  a parastatal organization,
manages the national parks (over 35,000 km ) and is responsible for
infrastructure, collection of entry and vehicle fees, anti-poaching
efforts, administration of campsites, and development of existing and
proposed parks. It is also responsible for the Serengeti Research
Institute, which carries out research on wild animals and domestic
stock.



MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND TOURISM
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE TOURISM DIVISION
TOURISM
DIVISION
DIRECTOR
TOURISM                                                                     SECTORAL                                                         H
SERVICES                                                                    PLANNING
SECTION                                                                     SECTION
HOTEL
PUBLIC RELATIONS    FINANCE &           TRAVEL AGENCY    HOTEL               .               PLANNING           R &                              T MANPOWER   _ - RAINING
ADMINISTRATION      LICENSING         CLASSIFICATION                                                       TRAINING         SCHOOL
LICENSING



-10-
2.07      The Ngorongoro Conservation Authority (NCA) manages an area
of about 8,000 km2, including the Ngorongoro crater itself, and the
site of the discoveries at Olduvai Gorge. It is responsible for infra-
structure, entry and vehicle fees and anti-poaching efforts within
the area. NCA attempts to obtain optimal economic returns
through multiple land use. This involves some 12,000 Masai
pastoralists in the area, whose herds coexist with the
wildlife.
C. The Tanzania Tourist Corporation (TTC)
2.08       The Tanzania Tourist Corporation came-into being on
April 11, 1969, under the Public Corporation Act (para. 6.01).
The Corporation was charged with state investment in tourism super-
structure, management and control thereof, and promotion of the
tourist industry. The Corporation is owned by the Government and
is Tanzania's principal and active instrument of tourism develop-
ment. TTC is intended to function as a profit-making organization.
2.09       By the end of 1977, TTC owned 13 hotels totaling about
1,200 rooms (2,300 beds), roughly 45% of total hotel capacity of
international standard in Tanzania. TTC also has minority share-
holdings in two additional hotel companies, which account for a
further 10% of overall capacity. In addition to hotels, TTC
controls and operates: (a) State Travel Service (STS), a travel
agency and tour operator; and (b) Tanzania Duty Free Shops Ltd.
TTC also runs four overseas offices in Frankfurt, London, Milan and
New York and is responsible for conducting the overall promotion
campaign for Tanzania's tourism industry. Total TTC staff is
about 2,400.
2.10       The Corporation's governing authority is vested in a
ten-member Board of Directors. The Board is convened at least
every six months and decides on organizational changes, budget
and development projects, and recruitment of top level personnel.
The Chairman of the Board is nominated by the President for a period
of five years and can be renominated. The other Board members
are nominated by the Minister of MNR&T. Among the current Board
members are the Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and the Principal Secretary of MNR&T.



-11-
CHART III
TALZAIA TOMIRST CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
I BQZRD OP        ELPMEN
|  GE    l~~ANGE
MANPOWER D1EV. &     DIRECTOR OP                              OEL TM                                                       MARERTING
AIEdINISTRATION                                                                                                            DIECTOR
DIRETOR                                                       M    R
STAFF 11V.      HEAD OFFICE        NORER  HOES         SOUTHERN HOTITELS                         IPROMOTION &
OFF_CERTACCOUNTANT                                                                                PUBLICITY
MANAGER
AIMINISTRATION         GROPACOT.        LAXR MEARk                                                                         DIE
SADOFFICER          NORTH                              SEPROI
| OFFICER   l     :     NORTS              l      8    g      1    BOTES    |    |   }NS   OPFICM  AGERA|
GRO_ P ACCT. I-I 8GOR08GORO            I   Nq CA                     R    TI
SOUTH            W D. LODGE                R=AAGER                                                 TOURIST
REPRESENTATIVES
|CONilROLL[ER  |      T 11  LODGE          BRACEEHOTEL
INSIIEUJCE lgDB   S 
~   MANGER
NE IM



-12-
2.11       The Corporation's chief executive is the General
Manager, who is appointed by the President. According to the
new organization approved in February 1978 (Chart III), there
are four directors reporting to the General Manager: marketing,
finance, administration, and hotel and tourist services. Although
the quality of TTC management and staff is generally adequate, there
are various units within TTC that urgently need strengthening.
These involve the areas of marketing, structural and mechanical
engineering, purchasing and distribution, and reservations
and communications. The project provides funds for technical
assistance and training in these areas.
2.12       Since 1970, every public enterprise employing over
ten workers has been required to establish a form of worker parti-
cipation in management through a Workers' Council. All TTC hotels
have Workers' Councils, which are chaired by the hotel manager and
include heads of all departments, the Party and labor union repre-
sentatives, members of the Workers' Committee, and representatives
selected in proportion to the number of workers in each department.
The Councils discuss wage and income policies as announced by
Government, productivity planning (e.g., setting targets for
each department), and other matters pertaining to organization,
workers' welfare, and education.
D. Ministry of Works
2.13       The Roads and Aerodromes Division of the Ministry of
Works is responsible for the planning, design and construction
of airports, including passenger terminal buildings. The Division
is also responsible for maintenance of airport installations and
buildings through its Airport Services Section.
2.14       The Building Division of the Ministry of Works is in
charge of the construction of Government buildings. In carrying
out this responsibility, the Division (a) advises the client
agency about hiring consultants or directly employs consultants
when necessary; (b) ensures that the bulk of building work is
standardized; (c) prepares cost estimates; and (d) invites
tenders and negotiates contracts on behalf of the Government and
parastatal agencies.



-1 3-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Content
3.01      A variety of factors contributed to the relative decline in the
performance of the tourism sector in Tanzania after 1972. Most important
was the generally unfavorable attitude toward tourism prevailing in
Tanzania in the early 1970s, which led to frequent misunderstandings
between Tanzanians and tourists. The period was also marked by frequent
discussions in the press and within the Government as to whether social
values promoted by the Government and the services required by tourism
were compatible. This led to a marked deterioration in the quality of
service. A second major problem was the strict control of foreign exchange
and reluctance of the Government to provide foreign exchange funds for
purchase of even the most basic hotel supply items, such as cutlery,
linens and blankets. Major hotel appliances and fixtures deteriorated
rapidly, and spare parts or replacements were not readily available
(para. 1.05). Imported food items such as sugar and butter were scarce,
and luxury items such as imported liquors were virtually unavailable.
In addition, there were a number of problems relating to lack of adquate
hotel training. Finally, the recent closure of the border with Kenya left
a gap in marketing tours to Tanzania since it was the Kenyan tour operators
who traditionally brought most tourists to northern Tanzania.
3.02      The proposed project is designed to assist the Government in
reversing the deterioration in tourist facilities and services since the
early 1970s, which has resulted in a decline of tourism to Tanzania.
Specifically, hotels would be rehabilitated, adequate hotel training
provided, transportation infrastructure improved, and promotion of
Tanzania's tourist attractions intensified. With the improvements to be
brought about by the project, tourist traffic is expected to increase
substantially and allow adequate use of existing hotels and lodges whose
capacity, with the exception of those in the Dar es Salaam area, is
sufficient to handle the increased traffic through 1985. The project would
consist of the following components:
( i) urgent and essential works and equipment required
to bring seven hotels and five lodges, controlled
and operated by the TTC, up to an acceptable
operating standard;
( ii) technical assistance to the TTC in the fields of
hotel maintenance, marketing, hotel supplies,
hotel communications, and project coordination;
(iii) the preparation of promotional material and
marketing campaigns aimed at the tourist travel
trade;
( iv) the construction, furnishing and equipping, and
technical assistance for a Hotel and Tourism



-14-
Training Institute (HTTI) to be located in
Dar es Salaam;
( v)  improvements to the terminal building of the Dar es
Salaam Airport to provide more adequate facilities
for international arrivals and departures; and
( vi)  equipment for the anti-poaching units of TANAPA
and NCA.
B. Project Components
Hotel Rehabilitation
3.03      The following 12 hotels and lodges, operated and owned by
the TTC, will be rehabilitated under the project:
( i)  Kilimanjaro Hotel, Dar es Salaam (196 rooms/392 beds);
( ii)  New Africa Hotel, Dar es Salaam (101/159);
(iii)  Kunduchi Beach Hotel, 18 km north of Dar es Salaam
(100/200);
( iv)  Mafia Island Lodge, Mafia Island (30/60);
( v)  Mikumi Wildlife Lodge, Mikumi National Park (48/96);
( vi)  Lake Manyara Hotel, overlooking Lake Manyara (101/202);
(vii)  Ngorongoro Wildlife Lodge, Ngorongoro Conservation
Area (78/156);
(viii) Seronera Wildlife Lodge, Serengeti National Park
(76/152);
( ix)  Lobo Wildlife Lodge, Serengeti National Park (75/150);
( x)  New Mwanza Hotel, Mwanza, Lake Victoria (57/112);
( xi)  New Safari Hotel, Arusha (60/113); and
(xii)  Moshi Hotel, Moshi (67/108).
3.04      The 12 hotels and lodges have different degrees of obsolescence:
Two of them (New Safari and Moshi) are about 25 years old; the Kilimanjaro,
Lake Manyara, and Ngorongoro were built in the 1960s; and the remaining
seven started operations between 1970 and 1973. Because of poor maintenance,
failure to carry out essential repairs, and lack of spare parts or technical
ability to keep major equipment in working condition, these hotels and
lodges are no longer offering the quality of accommodation and service they
were intended to.



-15-
3.05      The hotels' buildings and technical plants require immediate
major remedial expenditure. Roofs in some lodges need extensive surface
retreatment; in others, the high degree of alkalinity in the water has
already destroyed treatment plants and corroded piping and equipment. In
some hotels and lodges, the sewerage system has to be replaced. Technical
equipment in most hotels and lodges has deteriorated and requires
extensive overhaul and replacement of parts. Deteriorating bathroom fittings
and sanitary ware also need replacement. In most hotels and lodges, the
quantity and quality of the linen, cleaning equipment, crockery, cutlery,
glassware, and kitchen utensils are inadequate. Most of these hotels are
on the verge of a breakdown in operations and would have to be closed if
a major rehabilitation is not carried out.
3.06      The major component of the proposed project is designed to
rehabilitate the structure of such hotels and lodges, repair damaged
furniture and equipment, replace the technical plant, provide necessary
spare parts, and improve the condition of staff quarters. At the same
time, this project component is intended to provide training to maintenance
staff and to establish facilities for major repairs and for storage of
parts in both Dar es Salaam and Arusha.
3.07      Specifically, the hotel rehabilitation component would provide
for (a) external works, comprising site development and roof improvement;
(b) improvement of plumbing installations, repair or replacement of
electrical generators and installations, overhaul of air-conditioning and
heating systems, improvement of boiler plants, overhaul of water and sewage
treatment plants, and repair or replacement of equipment in kitchens,
laundry and service areas; (c) improvement or replacement of internal
finishes, furniture, and fittings in public areas and guest rooms; (d) staff
housing; and (e) vehicles essential for the operation of hotels and lodges.
Technical Assistance to TTC
3.08      Fifteen man-years of internationally recruited specialists'
services would be provided to TTC under the project, including:
( i) one specialist in hotel engineering for three years;
( ii) one specialist to help administer and coordinate the
hotel rehabilitation for three years;
(iii)  two specialists in hotel mechanical installations and
equipment, each for two years;
( iv) one specialist in tourism marketing for two years;
( v) one specialist in hotel communication and reservation
systems for one year; and
( vi) one specialist in organization of hotel supplies and
distribution system for two years.



-16-
3.09      The first four specialists would be directly involved in the
execution of the hotel rehabilitation program and, at the same time,
would be responsible for the training of local professional staff within
the Engineering Department. The remaining specialists would assist TTC
in the reorganization and strengthening of its respective departments.
All technical assistance appointments should be made in consultation with
IDA and assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
Marketing Expenditures
3.10      Because of a lack of marketing expenditures since the early
1970s, substantial amounts are needed over the project period to provide
the Marketing Department of TTC with adequate supplies of promotional
materials as well as funds for campaigns aimed at the tourist travel
trade. Financing for marketing would be included in the project because
funds required to start up the marketing campaign are much larger than
those required on a regular basis and because extensive marketing efforts
are essential to the success of the project. Included in the promotional
materials would be brochures and booklets, stickers, posters, maps and
postcards, as well as slides and film to be used in presentations to tour
operators. Additional funds would be made available for newsletters,
advertisements in various publications, and overseas visits.
Hotel and Tourism Training Institute (HTTI)
3.11      The existing school provides short, basic-level, three-month
courses for five hotel occupations (waiters, barmen, receptionists, house-
keepers, and cooks).  The teaching staff of the school consists of eight
local instructors, most of them part-time. The school is housed in an
old and inadequate structure in downtown Dar es Salaam, with a maximum
capacity of 64 trainees per term (para. 1.20). The building cannot
accommodate the required instructional facilities for a modern school,
and the site itself (0.4 ha) is too small for any extension of the
building. No facilities are available for practical training.
3.12      The proposed HTTI would be designed to reproduce as closely as
possible the working environment found in hotels and other tourism-related
facilities so that trainees could receive theoretical training in the
academic facilities and practical experience in the attached hotel. An
acceptable site for the HTTI should be determined in consultation with
IDA, and agreement to this effect was reached during negotiations.
Courses for 134 full-time students would be staggered to permit efficient
use of facilities, and the duration of courses would vary; full-time
courses would last up to one year, while refresher courses would last four
weeks. Full-time courses would be offered in the five main hotel specialties
(front office, restaurant, kitchen, housekeeping, and hotel maintenance)
and in two tourism specialties (tour guides, information officers). The
courses would be offered at basic, medium and higher levels (Annex II).
3.13      The academic facilities of the proposed Institute would include



-17-
general purpose classrooms, a language laboratory, workshops and demon-
stration rooms, a library, and administrative offices. A practice hotel
would be built with 30 bedrooms, the minimum suitable size for training
purposes. The hotel would have a food and beverage department, including
a bar, a restaurant, and a kitchen specially designed and equipped for
student training. The practice hotel would be open to the public and
would function commerically with all the departments and services
generally found in three-star hotels. The Institute and the hotel would
share the kitchen and also the laundry and central stores. Student
housing would be in the form of dormitories for 80 trainees.
Technical Assistance for the HTTI
3.14      A technical assistance component is essential for the success of
the HTTI. The component would provide funds for expatriate teachers,
scholarships for teacher training, and a senior advisor on hotel training.
In total, this component would provide for 18 man-years of internationally
recruited specialists' services and 20 man-years of fellowships. The
specialists would arrive in Tanzania three to six months before the open-
ing of the Institute and stay for periods of up to 30 months.
3.15      Eleven Tanzanians would be trained to replace the technical
assistance team as a core of technical expertise. Candidates would be
sent abroad for a one- to three-year program of technical and teacher
training. To ensure that teacher training is completed in time, the first
candidates should take up their studies abroad during the 1979/80 school
year.
Terminal Building, Dar es Salaam International Airport
3.16      The proposed project would also provide funds for improvements
in the handling of international passengers at the Dar es Salaam Airport,
and would include civil works, furniture and equipment. This component
is intended to constitute a stopgap solution to alleviate the present
problems in the arrivals and departures of passengers, which will multiply
as tourist and general traffic increase in the next ten years. Beyond
that, the Tanzanian Government intends to build new airport facilities.
3.17      The airport at Dar es Salaam is the principal international air-
port for Tanzania and the hub of the domestic air route network. For the
foreseeable future, it will continue to be the principal airport and will
handle increasingly large numbers of international arrivals and departures.
The airport, opened in 1955, is located some 10 km southwest of Dar es
Salaam and was designed to serve only small aircraft. In 1967, its main
runway was extended to the present length of 2,380 m. The terminal building
was remodeled in 1970, 1972 and 1973 to provide additional capacity in
the arrival and departure areas. With the increased air traffic and the
introduction of larger aircraft, the terminal facilities have become
inadequate. The main problem is the lack of adequate space both for
passengers and for other services contained in the terminal building
and the excessive time required to process passengers.



-18-
3.18       The proposed component would provide funds for the construction
of a new international passenger processing unit adjacent to the existing
terminal building. This would be a single-story, light structure, that
could easily find alternative use should a new terminal building be con-
structed at some time in the future. The component would also include
the installation of luggage conveyors and equipment for moving luggage to
and from the aircraft.
Anti-Poaching Equipment
3.19       Until recently, poaching did not pose a serious threat to Tanzania's
wildlife resources. However in the past two years there has been increasing
incidence of well-armed poachers which, in the long run, could threaten
certain wildlife species and also the associated tourism industry. The
Government has responded to this emerging threat by strengthening its anti-
poaching activities. To support these activities, the project will provide
necessary vehicles and_equipment for the anti-poaching units of TANAPA
and NCA.    To assist in monitoring the effectiveness of this anti-poaching
component, assurances have been obtained that a report dealing with the
wildlife situation in Tanzania and the results of anti-poaching activities
shall be furnished annually to the Association. Furthermore, assurances
were received that any major changes in policies affecting wildlife preservation,
relating to organization and staffing of anti-poaching units, licensing of
hunting and dealing in and exporting of trophies, shall be submitted to the
Association in sufficient time to enable it to comment on them.
Makuyuni-Serengeti Road
3.20       The access from Arusha to the northern wildlife lodges at Lake
Manyara, Ngorongoro, Seronera, and Lobo leaves the main Arusha-Dodoma
trunk road at the village of Makuyuni, 84 km west of Arusha. The trunk
road between Arusha and Makuyuni is paved, reasonably well-maintained,
and adequate for projected volumes of traffic. The 160 km access route
beyond Makuyuni to Lake Manyara National Park, Ngorongoro Conservation
Area, and Serengeti National Park is an over-trafficked earth road that is
liable to flood at river crossings, because of a lack of longitudinal drainage
and is particularly rough in the escarpments, difficult to maintain, and
unpassable in the rainy season.
3.21       Improvement of this road was initially proposed as a component
of the project, but it was later decided to include it as a component of
the Fifth Highway Project appraised in April 1978. Project components
under the Fifth Highway Project would include equipment, spare parts,
materials, and technical assistance. The equipment and materials would
be assigned to and used by a special rehabilitation unit that would be engaged
in maintenance of the road and would guarantee safe all-weather access to
the parks and lodges. Minor improvements would include realignments, re-
grading, gravel pavement, longitudinal drainage, and culverts. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government will upgrade the
road to an all-weather standard and maintain it in accordance with
sound engineering standards.



-19-
IV. PROJECT COST, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Cost Estimates
4.01       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$19.5 million
equivalent, including US$1.2 million equivalent of taxes and duties. The
estimated costs and foreign exchange components of the various categories
of expenditures are given in Annex I, Table 7 and are summarized as follows:
Table 1. Estimated Cost Per Project Component
% of
Total    %
TSh (millions)        US$ (millions)      Base  Foreign
Component                   Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Cost  Exchange
A. Rehabilitation of
TTC hotels and
lodges                 18.9   48.8   67.7   2.35   6.11   8.46  57.9    72
B. TTC marketing expen-
ditures                 1.4    4.4    5.8   0.19   0.54   0.73   5.0    74
C.  HTTI                      5.7    9.7   15.4   0.71   1.22   1.93  13.2    63
D.  Dar es Salaam Air-
port Terminal           3.3    7.3   10.6   0.41   0.92   1.33   9.1    69
E.  Technical assistance
to TTC                  0.5    4.9    5.4   0.07   0.61   0.68   4.6    90
to HTTI                 0.8    7.3    8.1   0.10   0.91   1.01   6.9    90
F.  Anti-poaching equipment  0.6    3.2    3.8   0.07   0.40   0.47   3.3    85
Total Base Cost          31.2   85.6  116.8   3.90  10.71  14.61 100.0    73
Contingencies
Physical
increase (8%)         2.6    6.3    8.9   0.32   0.79   1.11             71
Price
increase (26%)       10.2   20.1   30.3   1.28   2.50   3.78             66
Subtotal              _12.8  _26.4  _39.2  _1.60   3.29   4.89             67
Total Project Cost
(including taxes
and duties)         44.0  112.0  156.0   5.50  14.00  19.50             72



-20-
Table 2. Estimated Cost by Category of Expenditure
TSh (millions)        US$ (millions)      of Total
Category                       Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Base Cost
1. Civil Works
a.  Hotel rehabilitation       8.2   15.8   24.0   1.04   1.96   3.00    20.5
b.  HTTI                       4.0    7.0   11.0   0.50   0.88   1.38        9.5
c.  Airport terminal           2.5    4.5    7.0   n.in   0.57   0.87        6.0
Subtotal (1)          _14.7  _27.3   42.0  _1.84   3.41   5.25   _36.0
2.  Furniture & fixtures         2.4    7.2    9.6   0.30   0.90   1.20        8.2
3.  Equipment                    5.5   31.5   37.0   0.68   3.95   4.63    31.7
4.  Professional services        5.8    3.1    8.9   0.72   0.39   1.11        7.6
Subtotal (1-4)         28.4   69.1   97.5  _3.54  _8.65  12.19    83.5
5.  Technical assistance         1.3   12.2   13.5   0.17   1.52   1.69    11.5
6.  Marketing expenditures       1.5    4.3    5.8   0.19   0.54   0.73        5.0
Total Base Cost (1-6)   31.2   85.6  116.8   3.90  10.71  14.61   100.0
7. Contingencies
Physical Increase
(8%)                    2.6    6.3    8.9   0.32   0.79   1.11
Price Increase
(26%)                 10.2   20.1   30.3   1.28   2.50   3.78
Subtotal (7)         _12.8   26.4   39.2   1.60   3.29   4.99
Total Project Cost
(including taxes
and duties)          44.0  112.0  156.0   5.50  14.00  19.50
4.02      Cost estimates for civil works, furniture, and equipment for the
hotel rehabilitation, HTTI, and the airport terminal are based on preliminary
architectural and engineering studies carried out by Coopers and Lybrand
Associates in association with Norman and Dawbarn and are updated to October
1978 prices. The estimates of costs for civil works are based on economical
building standards, and maximum use of local materials and building technology
has been emphasized. The average rehabilitation cost per room of TTC hotels
and lodges is US$8,500 without contingencies, and US$11,000 including con-
tingencies. The unit construction cost for HTTI is about US$300/m , and the
gross area per student (5.4m2) reflects the austerity of the proposed facilities.
Internationally recruited specialists for the technical assistance to both TTC
and ETTI are estimated to require 33 man-years at an average cost of US$45,000
per man-year. Consultants required for the design of the hotel rehabilitation,
the HTTI, and the airport terminal are estimated at 37 man-years at an average
cost of US$30,000 equivalent per man-year.



-21-
Duties and Taxes
4.03      Project costs include customs duties and taxes for imported
items and have been estimated at US$0.7 million equivalent. Most of
the building materials to be used in the construction work and some
furniture and equipment are expected to be acquired in the local
market and would accordingly be subject to taxes, estimated at US$0.5
million equivalent. In accordance with the normal practice of the
Government of Tanzania in IDA projects, the remuneration of the technical
assistance specialists would be exempted from taxes.
Contingency Allowances
4.04      For physical increases, 10% has been added to the base cost
of civil works, furniture and equipment (Annex I, Table 8). Estimated
price increases are based on annual rates of price escalation over base
costs of March 1978 in accordance with the implementation schedule
(Annex I, Table 9). Total contingencies represent 34% of the estimated
base cost.
Foreign Exchange Component
4.05      The foreign exchange component has been calculated as follows:
(a) civil works, 63%;
(b) internal finishes, furniture and fixtures, 75%;
(c) equipment and vehicles, 83%;
(d) professional services, 35%;
(e) technical assistance and fellowships, 90%; and
(f) marketing expenditures, 74%.
The foreign exchange component for civil works is high reflecting, inter alia,
the high transportation and fuel costs in Tanzania. Including contingencies,
the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$14 million equivalent, or
72% of total project cost.
B. Financial Plan
4.06      The financial plan (Table 3) provides for an IDA Credit of US$14
million equivalent (76.5% of total project cost net of taxes and customs duties).
The Government contribution would be US$4.3 million equivalent (excluding taxes
and duties) spread over a period of four years with a maximum contribution of
about US$1.5 million equivalent in any one year. The Government attaches high
priority to the project, and provision of the capital counterpart funds is
within its capability.



-22-
Table 3. Financial Plan
(US$ millions)
Government
Category                     of Tanzania         Credit         Total
Civil works                     1.44              3.41           4.85
Furniture and fixtures          0.24              0.90           1.14
Equipment and vehicles          0.54              3.93           4.47
Professional services           0.56              0.44           1.00
Technical assistance            0.20              1.49           1.69
Marketing Expenditures          0.06              0.54           0.60
Contingencies                   1.26              3.29           4.55
Subtotal                      4.30             14.00          18.30
Taxes and duties                1.20                --           1.20
Total                         5.50             14.00          19.50
C. Project Implementation
General
4.07      Overall project coordination would be vested in the office of
the Principal Secretary of MNR&T. The project would be implemented in
about four years from Credit effectiveness (Annex I, Table 9) with a
proposed closing date of June 30, 1983. The expected completion date is
December 1982.
Hotel Rehabilitation
4.08      The hotel rehabilitation component would be executed by contractors
under the supervision of TTC personnel. The extent of the works involved
would put an excessive strain on existing TTC manpower. If the works are
to be carried out effectively and within the budget constraints, they must
be carefully programmed and supervised by a reinforced Engineering Depart-
ment within TTC. Therefore, a coordinator within the Engineering Depart-
ment to overview the hotel rehabilitation program would be nominated by TTC
by April 30, 1979, and assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations. This coordinator would be assisted by a newly nominated
procurement officer and five construction supervisors.
4.09      An essential aspect of project implementation is proper mainte-
nance of the rehabilitated facilities. Past deficiencies of maintenance



-23-
should not recur, and the improved facilities should not be allowed to
deteriorate. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that TTC
will, by December 31, 1981, have reached and thereafter maintain, an
annual level of repair and maintenance expenditure equivalent to
6% of hotel sales or 2% of the current value of its fixed assets, which-
ever is higher.
Hotel and Tourism Training Institute
4.10      The design and construction of the HTTI will be performed by
architects and contractors under the supervision of the Ministry of
Works, Building Division.
4.11      Operations of the HTTI are described in detail in Annex II.
Six experts in hotel training and tourism, one of whom would be designated
as head of courses, would be recruited and financed by the project. The
functions of these experts would be to prepare syllabi and teach at the
HTTI for its first two to three years of operation. All technical
assistance appointments should be made in consultation with IDA and the
head teacher should be nominated by end-1979; assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations. Eleven Tanzanians would be trained
overseas to take over from the technical assistance team during the
third year of HTTI operations.
4.12      The HTTI would function autonomously within prescribed
budgetary limits. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the
Government would study and inform IDA by end-1980 of the method of
financing HTTI operations (hotel levy, tuitions, and Government subsidies).
During negotiations, assurances were received that an accounting system
acceptable to IDA would be installed in the ETTI, six months prior to
its expected opening. During negotiations, assurances were also obtained
that annual audited financial statements for the HTTI would be furnished
to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
4.13      The Division of Tourism in the MNR&T is at present inadequately
staffed to supervise operation of the HTTI. Funds have been included
in the project to provide a senior advisor to strengthen the Division.
The functions of the advisor would be to assist in planning the HTTI
operations and to advise on training policy (eventually to be codified
in a training law), including validation of diplomas and student and
teacher regulations. The appointment would be for three years.
Terminal Building, Dar es Salaam Airport
4.14      The design and construction of the terminal building would be
performed by consultants and contractors under the supervision of the
Roads and Aerodromes Division of the Ministry of Works. Once completed,
operation and maintenance of this facility would be entrusted to the
Airport Services Section of the Ministry of Works.



-24-
Anti-poaching
4.15       Implementation of the anti-poaching component will be entrusted
to TANAPA and NCA which will use the equipment to support and strengthen
their existing anti-poaching units.
Financial Arrangements
4.16       IDA would finance the foreign exchange component of the project
and the Government would finance local costs. IDA funds would be channeled
through the Ministry of Finance to (a) the TTC for the hotel rehabilitation,
marketing, and technical assistance component; (b) the MNR&T for the Hotel
and Tourism Training Institute; (c) the Ministry of Works for the airport
passenger terminal building; and (d) TANAPA and NCA for the anti-poaching
component. Funds for hotel rehabilitation would be passed on by the
Ministry of Finance to the TTC on commercial terms. The loan to TTC
will be for sixteen years at 10% interest with four years of grace for
both principal and interest. These terms are consistent with prevailing
loan terms in Tanzania. Average inflation rate for Tanzania in the 1975-77
period was 13% as measured by the consumer price index. Inflation rate
forecast for 1978-80 is 7.5%. Agreement on the terms on which funds would
be passed to the executing agencies was reached during negotiations.
Design and Construction Standards
4.17      Consultants would be responsible for the design, construction
standards and tender documents for the hotels and lodges to be rehabilitated,
the Hotel and Tourism Training Institute, and the terminal building at Dar es
Salaam Airport. They would also prepare lists of furniture, fixtures and
equipment, and maintenance manuals. Preliminary and final drawings and
drafts of the above documents would be prepared in consultation with the
Association.
The Building Industry
4.18      Construction companies, most of which are based in Dar es Salaam
and Arusha, are registered with the Central Tender Board. Small companies
(Class 4) are qualified to undertake contracts up to TSh 5 million (US$0.6
million) in value. Medium-sized companies (Classes 3 and 2) are qualified
to undertake work up to TSh 10 million (US$1.2 million) and TSh 25 million
(US$3.1 million), respectively. Class 1 companies--four to five in total--
are owned principally by joint ventures of local and expatriate contractors;
they are qualified to undertake work for unlimited amounts. ynit construction
costs for buildings by private cont5actors are about US$280/m  for light
and simple structures, and US$400/m for more complicated structures. These
prices are relatively high in comparison with those in neighboring countries.
It is expected that most of the rehabilitation works of hotels and lodges,
improvement works of the airport terminal, and construction works of the
HTTI would be accomplished by large- and medium-sized companies on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
4.19      For purposes of bidding, civil works and redecoration, hotels and
lodges would be grouped together. The three main packages would include



-25-
(a) the northern circuit hotels and lodges (Lobo, Seronera, and New Mwanza;
Ngorongoro and Manyara; New Safari and Moshi); (b) the hotels in the Dar es
Salaam area (Kilimanjaro, New Africa and Kunduchi Beach); and (c) the lodges
in Mikumi and Mafia.
Procurement
4.20      All contracts for civil works, furniture, fixtures, equipment,
and vehicles would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement, except
for:
( i) civil works contracts costing less than US$250,000
equivalent each (up to US$2.4 million in total);
( ii) furniture, fixtures, and equipment contracts costing
less than US$100,000 equivalent each (up to US$1.5
million in total); and
(iii)  spare parts for equipment already installed in
hotels and lodges (up to US$0.3 million in total).
Contracts for items (i) and (ii) would be awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with local procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Association. Spare parts would be purchased
directly from manufacturers or distributors. In evaluating civil works
bids, domestic contractors would be allowed a 7.5% preference. Domestic
manufacturers of furniture, fixtures, and equipment would be granted a
preferential margin in bid evaluation equal to the prevailing tariff, or
15% of the c.i.f. cost of imports, whichever is lower.
Disbursement
4.21      Disbursement would be based on:
( i)  65% of total expenditures for civil works;
( ii)  100% of foreign expenditures for imported furniture,
fixtures, equipment, and vehicles; 75% of local
expenditures of such Imported items when procured
locally; 100% of ex-factory cost of such items when
manufactured locally; and
(iii) 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local
expenditures for professional services, technical
assistance, fellowships and marketing expenses.
4.22      Disbursements will be fully documented.  In order not to delay
implementation of the project, it is proposed that a part of the equipment
for the hotel rehabilitation component procured after October 1, 1978, and
not exceeding US$400,000 equivalent, be financed retroactively. A schedule
showing the estimated rate of disbursement is given in Annex I, Table 10.



-26-
V. DEMAND AND MARKET PROSPECTS
A. Tanzania's Tourism Potential
5.01      Tanzania's tourist attractions appeal to the wildlife-oriented
market--primarily North Americans, Europeans, Japanese, and Australians--
and to the beach-oriented market--primarily Europeans. Tanzania offers
probably one of the finest con5entrations of wildlife in the world. Its
national parks cover 35,000 km in which wildlife is protected and no
human habitation is permitted.  Among the na ional parks, the largest is
the Serengeti with a total area of 15,000 km  on which an estimated one
million animals live. The Serengeti is mainly known for the large number
of lions and for the seasonal animal migrations to the north in search of
water. Another major attraction is Lake Manyara National Park, which is
noted for its tree-climbing lions, herds of buffalo, and large troops of 2
baboons.  The unique Ngorongoro Conservation Area is spread over 8,000 km
of countryside, in which the wildlife is protected but where the Masai tribe
also lives and hirds its cattle. Within this area is the famous Ngorongoro
Crater, a 250 km floor of a caldera or a collapsed volcano, which is
abundant with zebras, gazelles, and wildebeests. Other major wildlife
attractions in Tanzania include (a) Mikumi National Park,2about a three-
hour drive from Dar es Salaam and (b) the vast, 40,000 km Selous Game
Reserve in the south, with its large herds of elephants.
5.02      Although worldwide competition for beach-oriented winter tourists
is fierce, Tanzania enjoys three major advantages (a) its beaches are not
overdeveloped; (b) hotel prices are somewhat below those of neighboring
countries and substantially below those of Caribbean destinations; and
(c) tourists can combine beach vacations with excursions to wildlife areas.
Although rather distant from the North American market, Tanzania is about
the same flying time from Eruope (9-10 hours) as some of the popular Caribbean
destinations.
5.03      Recognizing the prospects for increased worldwide tourism and
the potential of Tanzania's tourist attractions (to which the rapid growth
in tourism in the 1960s and early 1970s bear witness), the Government has
recently begun to promote tourism actively. This encouragement and support
from the Government included:
( i) establishment of overseas tourist offices in
Frankfurt, London, Milan and New York;
( ii) renewal of TTC's tourist vehicle fleet at a
cost of about US$2 million and intensive train-
ing of tourist guides at the Serengeti Wildlife
Institute;
(iii) establishment of Air Tanzania Corporation to
substitute for the cessation of operations of
East African Airways;



-27-
( iv) agreement with an increased number of international
carriers to offer a stop at Kilimanjaro Airport,
serving the northern wildlife area;
( v) availability of foreign exchange to hotel operators
for importing certain hotel supplies and equipment;
( vi) arrangement for the use of major credit cards in
Tanzania; and
(vii) government statements in the press encouraging tourism
and informing the public of the value of tourism to
the economy as well as welcoming investment in
tourist facilities by the private sector.
5.04      The proposed project will contribute significantly to the
recovery and growth of Tanzania tourism since it will ensure improved
tourist facilities and services, proper training, improved visitor
handling facilities at Dar es Salaam Airport, and increased level of
promotion of Tanzania's tourist attractions. Improved road connections
to the northern wildlife lodges (through the Road Maintenance Project)
will also contribute to this end.
B. Visitor Forecast by Region
The Northern Wildlife Area
5.05      Tourist flows to Tanzania's northern wildlife area grew by about
25% p.a. between 1969 and 1972; however, tourist traffic actually declined
by 2% annually between 1972 and 1976, reflecting the deterioration in
tourism facilities and services. In 1977, as a result of the border
closure with Kenya (where most tourists spent a good part of their holi-
days before arriving in Tanzania) and the cessation of operations of
East African Airways, which provided most international links to Tanzania,
tourism suffered a further major setback with attendance at the national
parks down about 70% from the 1976 level. Since alternative transport
means to Tanzania have now been established and with the expected improve-
ments in Tanzania's tourist facilities, services, and marketing, it is
estimated that Tanzania will begin to slowly recapture its share of the
East Africa safari market, which declined from 40% in 1976 to about 15%
in 1977. With the overall safari market increasing at 8% annually and
Tanzania's market share improving gradually from the depressed 1977 level,
plus an expected extension of tourist stays in the northern wildlife area
(3 days in 1985 vs. 2.3 days in 1976), total visitor bednights in 1985 are
expected to reach 224,oo0.  This would represent a substantial growth
@(ver 20% p.a.) over the low 1977 level but only 2.5% annual growth over
the 1976 tourist flows (prior to the border closure).



-28-
Arusha
5.06      The city of Arusha, in northern Tanzania, serves as an arrival/
departure point for tourists visiting the northern wildlife areas and
served as an administrative center for the East African Community. Visitor
bednights in Arusha grew at an average 5% per annum from 1969 to 1976.
Based on the expected change of tourist arrivals by air to Arusha's
Kilimanjaro Airport rather than by land from Kenya, it is estimated that
the average tourist will spend about two days in the area (up from one
day in 1976) because of departure/arrival schedules, and visits to the
Arusha and Kilimanjaro National Parks.
Dar es Salaam
5.07      Hotel bednights in Dar es Salaam are mainly dominated by business
traffic; these visitors stay in Dar es Salaam mostly in conjunction with
arrival and departure from Tanzania. Visitor bednights at Dar es Salaam
are expected to grow at 7% p.a. in line with recent growth trends.
5.08      Hotel capacity in Dar es Salaam is inadequate to handle the
expected future increase in demand. At present, international standard
hotels are already operating at about 95% room occupancy and 70% bed
occupancy, and an additional 100 rooms annually will be required in the
future. Since only one hotel extension in Dar es Salaam is now underway,
a shortage of hotel accommodation is likely to occur as early as 1980 if
no further hotel expansion materializes. Although in the short-term
this room shortage can be relieved by a spillover from city to beach
hotels, it is clear that construction of additional hotel capacity in
I)ar es Salaam is of a high sectoral priority.
Dar es Salaam Beach
5.09      At Dar es Salaam beach hotels, the number of visitor bednights
increased from 4,000 in 1969 to over 80,000 in 1972 due to the opening of
several new beach hotels. However, beach tourism declined thereafter;
total foreign bednights in 1976 were about half those of 1972. With the
expected growth of tourist arrivals, and an estimated 20% of the tourists
to the northern wildlife area being attracted to Dar es Salaam beaches
(through combined safari/beach package tours--average beach stay four
days), the growth rate of beach tourism is likely to reach 10% annually.
Zanzibar
5.10      The island of Zanzibar is another potential stimulant to tourist
flows in Tanzania. This exotic island was practically closed to tourists
until 1973. The island, which is only a 20-minute flight from Dar es
Salaam, can provide an attractive component in a tour package including
the northern national parks. In addition, the expected purchase of a



-29-
passenger boat by the National Transport Corporation to provide a sea
link between Dar es Salaam and Zanzibar will relieve the congestion on
existing flights, which is currently the major bottleneck to increased
tourism to Zanzibar.
Summary
5.11      Table 4 summarizes the demand and supply of hotel accommodations
by major area in Tanzania. According to the forecast, the existing
hotel capacity will be sufficient, if properly utilized, to cater to the
increased demand level through 1985 in all but the Dar es Salaam area
where about 100 additional hotel rooms will be required annually
between now and 1985.
Table 4. Demand and Supply of Hotel Accommodation in Tanzania
Excess Bed-     Additional
1985    Available Bed-  night Demand    Rooms Re-
Projected  nights at 60%   Over Existing   quired by
Area               Bednights  Bed Occupancy*       Supply         1985
('000)        ('000)          ('000)
Dar es Salaam        1,017           571             446            760
Beach Hotels           200           204              --            --
Northern Wildlife      224           257              --             --
Arusha/Moshi           237           281              --             --
Zanzibar                53            69              --            --
* Except for 70% in Dar es Salaam.
The table shows the low use of available hotel capacity and therefore
demonstrates the high sectoral priority of increasing visitor flows to
Tanzania to maximize use of existing hotel capacity and tourist facilities.
5.12      Based on the projected increase in bednights by region (paras.
5.05-5.10 and Annex I, Table 5) and the existing capacity constraints and
seasonality patterns within individual hotels, a summary of actual and
projected bed occupancy figures forecast for TTC hotels is given in
Table 5 and in Annex I, Table 6.



-30-
Table 5. Actual and Projected Bed Occupancy Rates of TTC Hotels
Hotels                           1976              1980              1985
Dar es Salaam
Kilimanjaro                      53*               57                57
New Africa                       89                90                90
Dar es Salaam Beach
Kunduchi                         43                50                70
Northern Wildlife
Lake Manyara                     56                30                73
Ngorongoro                       53                29                69
Seronera                         34                19                44
Lobo                             36                20                47
Arusha/Moshi
Mt. Meru                        N/A                21                54
New Safari                       61                32                60
New Moshi                        37                29                39
Others
New Mwanza                       45                52                70
Mikumi Wildlife                  35                33                46
Mafia Island                     20                20                50
* Room occupancy rate is 91%.
Effect of Border Closure
5.13      The above traffic forecast is based on the assumption that the
land border between Kenya and Tanzania will remain closed to tourist
traffic. However, should the border reopen, most tourists are expected to
spend most of their tour in the established destinations of Kenya and to
treat Tanzania as a complement of their tour. Specifically, if the
border reopens, the following impact is expected:
( i) the number of tourists to the northern wildlife area
will rebound strongly within a short period of time
because of extensive marketing by Kenyan tour operators,
but the average length of tourist stay is likely to be
somewhat shorter;
( ii) there will be fewer tourists combining a tour of the
northern national parks with a Dar es Salaam beach
vacation since they could stay at Mombasa beaches in
Kenya, which are closer; and
(iii) tourists will, on the average, spend less time at
Arusha since most of them will travel by land from
Kenya directly to the national parks.



-31-
In summary, the reopening of the border is expected to increase tourist
flows to the northern wildlife area in the short-term but to reduce
visitor bednights in Tanzania as a whole in the long-term. With an open
border, tourist bednights by 1985 will be 8% below forecast, with a
corresponding reduction in occupancy rates at TTC hotels.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. TTC Corporate Structure
6.01      At its inception in 1969, TTC took over ten tourism-related
companies from the National Development Corporation including the
Kilimanjaro, New Africa, Lake Manyara, Ngorongoro, Lobo, Bahari Beach,
and Furaya ya Visiwani group hotels. The Mafia Island, Kunduchi Beach
and Mikumi Lodges were built and, in 1970, merged with the New Africa
Hotel into a new corporation, Coastal Hotels, Ltd. Seronera Lodge was
built and, together with the Lake Manyara Hotel, merged into the existing
Serengeti Safari Lodges, Ltd. Controlling interests were purchased in the
privately owned New Safari, Mwanza, and Moshi Hotels, and Mount Meru
Hotels, Ltd. was formed in 1973 for the construction of that hotel
(Annex I, Table 11).
6.02      Between 1973 and 1977, in response to Government guidelines,
TTC did not initiate new projects or change its capital structure in which
the parent company, TTC, acts as a holding company but does not have
extensive direct operations. Policies since 1977 have changed, however,
as evidenced by the recent expansion of the New Safari Hotel and initiation
of construction of a large extension to the New Africa Hotel. TTC now
plans to rationalize its somewhat unwieldy corporate structure and, as
initial steps, has asked for Government approval to merge Kilimanjaro
Hotels Ltd. into the parent company and to merge Tanzania Tours Ltd.,
State Travel Services, and Tanzania Duty Free Shops Ltd. into one company
to be headquartered in Arusha. TTC is also attempting to purchase outside
shareholdings in the Mwanza and New Safari Hotel companies and in Tanzania
Tours Ltd.
B. TTC Financial Management
6.03      The TTC accounting organization performs reasonably well in
internal accounting and control. It performs an independent internal audit
function and has accounting personnel at individual hotels reporting
functionally and administratively to the chief accountant through group
accountants rather than to their respective chief operating officers.
This type of control is particularly important because of TTC's relatively
decentralized, geographically disparate nature and some incidence of prob-
lems with the handling of funds in subsidiary companies.



-32-
6.04      The quality of accounting procedures and controls has improved
significantly in the last three years. A uniform system of hotel account-
ing has been implemented and is being followed as appropriate by all
subsidiaries in annual budgeting and monthly account reporting. With a
few exceptions, accounting statements are submitted to headquarters con-
sistently within 30 days of the end of each month and are of reasonable
quality. Written standard operating procedures are being implemented
for accounting organization and functions, internal audit, central
purchasing, budgetary control, and food and beverage inventory control.
Audits are conducted annually for all TTC corporations by the Tanzania
Audit Corporation, and recent audits contain progressively fewer comments
to management on inadequacies. Principal remaining weaknesses are unrecon-
ciled intercompany loan accounts, the carrying of investments in subsidiaries
on a cost rather than an equity basis, and the absence of consolidated
balance sheets and income statements that would provide a more compre-
hensive picture of TTC's financial condition and performance than the
present unconsolidated financial statements.
6.05      Qualifications of the present Chief Accountant and Chief Internal
Auditor, both supplied under German bilateral technical assistance, are
satisfactory. However, there are only three additional qualified accountants
to cover the accounting requirements of TTC and subsidiaries. Six account-
ants are currently enrolled in a three-year course at the Institute of
Finance and Management, and most of them are scheduled to return to TTC
in mid-1979.
6.06      Project accounts should be maintained within the present
Accounting Department and audited separately until the project completion
date, when they would be consolidated into the appropriate corporate
accounts.  Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
Consolidated quarterly internal income statements showing individual
hotel performance should be submitted as part of project quarterly reports.
Assurances were received during negotiations that financial statements
for each subsidiary and consolidated financial statements for TTC and
subsidiaries audited by the Tanzania Audit Corporation or by other
independent auditors acceptable to IDA will be submitted to IDA within
sixmonths of the end of each fiscal year.
6.07      Present TTC insurance coverage, based primarily on initial
investment cost and, in some cases, on book value, is inadequate and
exposes TTC to possible large losses in the event of extensive damage to
one or more hotels. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that TTC will reappraise all principal fixed assets in current values,
will raise insurance coverage to cover current values by September 30, 1979,
and will adjust coverage periodically thereafter with changes in current
values.



-33-
C. Current TTC Financial Condition
6.08      The TTC parent company audited income statements and balance
sheets for the 1970-76 period (Annex I, Tables 12 and 13) depict a
somewhat inconsistent and unprofitable financial history. Although
these statements are not directly indicative of overall performance
(because the effect of operations of subsidiaries has not been included
except for ad hoc writeoffs of large cumulative losses), they show that,
during the period, about TSh 13 million or 53% of headquarters revenue
came from Government subventions to supplement income and that most
remaining income resulted from intercompany charges to subsidiaries for
management, marketing, and interest expense. During 1971-76, losses
including prior year adjustments totaled about TSh 44 million. During
the same period, the value of capital and retained earnings accounts
increased by TSh 22 million, reflecting an infusion of new capital
investment of about TSh 66 million, most of it from Government.
6.09      Consolidated income statements (Table 6) show TTC and its
subsidiaries on an overall basis operating close to the breakeven point
during 1974-76. Losses increased sharply to about TSh 13.2 million and
an estimated TSh 13.3 million in 1977 and 1978, respectively, in the
wake of the Kenyan border closure and the consequent sharp reduction
in hotel occupancy rates in the northern wildlife area. These 1977/78
losses approximately equal depreciation and amortization expenses and
largely eliminate cash flow from operations as a source for debt
principal repayments and capital expenditure requirements.
6.10      The current TTC financial position is presented in the pro
forma 1977 consolidated balance sheet, Table 7. TTC has a long term
debt-to-equity ratio of 47/53 largely because of sizable Government
infusions of funds (including about TSh 42.5 million in 1977). The
current position, however, is weak with net working capital of about
TSh 30 million, a current ratio of about 0.6 to 1, accounts payable and
accruals representing about 128 days expenditures and debt service
coverage of only 2.2. Liquidity is temporarily further strained by
collection problems on receivables due from Kenyan tour operators. Most
recent Government funding has been earmarked for capital expenditure and
has done little to alleviate the liquidity problem.
6.11      As of December 31, 1977, TTC, reflecting its difficult liquidity
situation,was overdue on TSh 15.3 million in principal payments and TSh 9.5
million in interest charges involving six loans. In particular, Serengeti
Safari Lodges Ltd. (SSLL), a TTC 100%-owned subsidiary, which has been acutely
affected by the closure of the border, owes TSh 19.5 million of the overdue
loans and interest charges. Assurances were received during negotiations
that the Government will provide SSLL with additional equity funds equal
to due and overdue principal and interest on these loans so that the capital
structure of SSLL can be placed on a viable basis. Projections in this report
assume that this recommendation will be followed (Annex III). Projected SSLL
sources and uses of funds, even if both the overdue loans and project capital



Table 6.  Tanzania Tourist Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Income Statements 1974-83
Pro Forma (Current TSh '000)
Revenue                            1974      1975      1976     1977      1978      1979     1980      1981       1982      1983
Room                            29,750   32,580   39,300   31,110   35,800   43,810   59,790   79,940   100,650   119,480
Food & Beverage                 28,200   35,270   43,780   48,990   52,900   62,690   80,320  101,840   123,060   147,170
Other                           17,520   17,150   20,860   19,660   21,940   31,060   43,100   54,820    64,160    79,960
Total Revenue                     75,470   85,000  103,940   99,760  110,640  137,560  183,210  236,600   287,870   346,610
Cost of Sales
Room                              -         -       6,240    5,940    6,740    7,970   10,150   12,780    15,310    18,120
Food & Beverage                 15,620   21,690   32,530   39,710   41,560   48,510   60,930   76,030    90,210   106,710
Other                            9,560   10,080   13,010   10,770    8,480   11,000   15,380   20,240    25,630    32,190
Total Cost of Sales               25,180   31,770   51,780   56,420   56,780   67,480   86,460  109,050   131,150   157,020
Gross Operating Income            50,290   53,230   52,160   43,340   53.860   70,080   96,750  127,850   156,720   189,590O
Undistributed Expense
General & Administration        34,690   38,490   30,090   27,620   35,140   44,160   51,400   58,150    60,170    67,120
Repair & Maintenance             2,300    2,960    4,170    4,740    5,560    9,450   11,240   14,020    16,410    19,020
Heat, Light & Power              4,300    4,600    5,350    5,840    6,090    7,170    9,090   11,490    13,740    16,100
Total Undistributed Expense       41,290   46,050   39,610   38,200   46,790   60,780   71,730   83,660    90,320   102,240
House Profit (Loss)                9,000    7,180   12,550    5,140    7,070    9,300   25,020   43,890    66,400    87,350
Interest                         2,000    2,750    3,250    3,810    4,050    3,230    5,040    7,900           5,700    11,000
Depreciation                     6,820    7,900    7,460   12,120   16,760   18,190   20,450   23,710    27,760    33,030
Minority Share of Income                                               (1,030)    (880)    (220)       270      1,170     1,210
Profit before Income Tax             180   (3,470)   1,840  (10,790) (12,710) (11,240)    (250)  12,010    31,770    42,110
Income Tax                         950    1,350    1,400    2,400         560       170      510    3,600       8,370    20,360
Profit (Loss)                        (770)  (4,820)      440  (13;190) (13,270) (11,410)    (760)   8,410    23,400    21,750
(Note:  TTC changed  its  accounting system to a departmental costing system in 1976-77 so projectedand
historical income statements cannot be directly compared.)



Table 7.  Tanzania Tourist Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheets 1977-83
Pro Forma (Current TSh '000)
Current Assets                                  1977 1/  1978         1979        1980        1981       1982        1983
Cash                                          9,670     8,630    10,690       13,180     16,060      18,450      26,680
Inventory                                   12,270    11,870    12,440        14,170     16,180      18,040      21,360
Receivables & Other                         32,490    28,800    28,640        30,120     38,890      47,320      56,980
Total Current Assets                           54,430    49,300    51,770       57,470      71,130     83,810    105,000
Fixed Assets, Net                             162,450   166,350   196,840    225,320    251,640    250,430    242,680
Other Long-term Assets                          7,590     6,870      8,800      12,650     15,510      20,960      17,070
Total Assets                                  224,470   222,500   257,410    295,440    338,280    355,200    364,750
Current Liabilities                                                                                                               X
Creditors and Accruals                      42,630    28,800    28,640        30,120     38,890      47,320      56,980
Bank Overdrafts                               5,800     8,160    16,260       36,550      35,660     11,340          --
Current Portion Long-term Loans             35,770      8,030    10,310       12,550      11,910     11,730      10,870
Total Current Liabilities                      84,200    44,990    ;5,210       79,220      86,460     70,390      67,850
Long-term loans                             47,590    53,410    76,920        85,550    103,900    108,970       98,100
Total Liabilities                             131,790    98,400   132,130    164,770    190,360    179,360    165,950
Minority Interests                              6,940      4,410     3,530       3,310       3,580       4,750       5,960
Capital                                       145,280   192,520   205,970    212,340    220,910    224,260    224,260
Retained Earnings                             (59,540)  (72,810)  (84,220)   (84,980)   (76,570)   (53,170)   (31,420)
Net Worth                                      85,740   119,710   121,750    127,360    144,340    171,090    192,840
Total Liabilities and Net Worth               224,470   222,520   257,410    295,440    338,280    355,200    364,750
Net Working Capital                           (29,770)    4,310    (3,440)   (21,750)   (15,330)    13,420         37,150
1/  This balance sheet is subject to possible adjustment in creditors and accruals and retained earnings as TTC has not
traditionally prepared such balance sheets and has not reconciled intercompany loan accounts, some of them substantial.



-36-
expenditures are provided as equity for SSLL, show negative working
capital throughout the 1978-83 period and a need to resort to additional
intercompany or short-term borrowings to service all operations and debts
adequately (Annex I, Table 14).
D. TTC Financial Prospects
6.12      Pro forma TTC consolidated income statements for the period
1974-83, adjusted for project impact, are shown in Table 6. After
experiencing large losses in 1977/78 and a somewhat smaller expected
TSh 11.4 million loss in 1979, TTC is expected to operate at approximately
its breakeven point in 1980 and to achieve increasingly higher profit
levels thereafter as occupancy rates and tariffs increase. From the
1979 loss, net profits by 1983 are expected to rise to about TSh 22
million, representing 6.3% of total sales (Annex I, Table 15), 11.6% on
equity, and 6% on book value of total assets employed (profits before
tax are 12% on assets employed). Because of increases in volume and
efficiency, gross operating income is expected to rise from 49% to 55%
of sales between 1978 and 1983. Because of the high fixed component of
overhead items, house profit (GOP) would rise much faster, from 6% to 25%
of sales during the same period.
6.13      Pro forma TTC consolidated balance sheets and sources and uses
of funds statements adjusted for project impact are shown in Tables 7 and
8. Net working capital would rise by TSh 34 million to a positive
TSh 4 million, and net worth increases by about TSh 34 million during
1978 because the projected loss is more than offset by an expected Govern-
ment infusion of TSh 46 million, consisting of (a) TSh 11 million in
equity for the New Africa Hotel extension, (b) TSh 7.5 million in other
capital budget items, (c) TSh 8 million in subventions (of which TSh 6
million is undisbursed from the 1977/78 Government budget), and (d) TSh 19.5
million for repayment of due and overdue principal and interest on the
loans to Serengeti Safari Lodges Ltd. In 1979 and 1980, TTC uses of working
capital would exceed sources by about TSh 26 million, resulting in a
slowly deteriorating working capital position, which would have to be
funded by overdrafts or short-term borrowing. TTC, because of its improved
earning prospects, should be able to obtain and service these short-term
borrowings.
o.14      According to the financial projections, TTC continues to 'ace
a very tight liquidity position until 1982. Therefore, during negotiations
TTC agreed not to undertake, unless the Government agrees to fund, new
capital expenditures in excess of TSh 2 million per fiscal year, to the
extent not funded through new long-term borrowing, as long as TTC's
consolidated current ratio after such expenditures is below 1.1 to 1.



Table 8. Tanzania Tourist Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Sources and Uses of Funds Statements, 1978-83
Pro Forma (Current TSh '000s)
1978       1979       1980        1981       1982     1983
Beginning Working Capital                        (29,770)      4,310    (3,440)   (21,750)  (15,330)   13,420
Sources of Funds
New Borrowings                                  13,860      33,810    21,180      30,260    16,800          --
Government Contributions                        47,240      13,450      6,370      8,570      3,350         --
Net Income                                     (13,270)   (11,410)       (760)     8,410    23,400    21,750
Depreciation, Amortization and
Minority Interests                            15,730      17,310    20,230      23,980    28,930    34,240
Total Sources                                   63,560      53,160    47,020      71,220    72,480    55,990
Uses of Funds
Capital Expenditures                            19,020      47,040    46,490      47,810    24,650    20,680
Increase in Other Long-term Assets & Other       2,430       3,560     6,290       5,080      7,350        710
Reduction in long-term Debt                      8,030      10,310    12,550      11,910    11,730    10,870
Total Uses                                      29,480      60,910    65,330      64,800    43,730    32,260
Net Change in Working Capital                     34,080      (7,750)  (18,310)       6,420    28,750    23,730
Ending Working Capital Balance                     4,310      (3,440)  (21,750)   (15,330)   13,420    37,150



-38-
6.15      The project should achieve a significant strengthening of
TTC's financial position as follows:
( i)  TTC would by 1982 be able to internally generate
sufficient funds to cover all debt service and
operating requirements including normal capital
replacement;
( ii)  TTC's liquidity and debt service capability
would considerably improve by 1983 to include
a corrsolidated current ratio of 1.5 to 1
and debt service coverage of 3.9, assuming
no new capital expansion projects or long-
term borrowings other than those already
initiated; and
(iii)  in 1983, TTC would show a net income of about
TSh 22 million, which represents a-return of
11.6% on equity and 6% on book value of total
assets employed, compared with a return of
negative 14.2% on equity and a negative 5.9%
on total assets in 1977.
TTC would become a solid financial vehicle for implementing future Govern-
ment projects designed to further Tanzania's tourism sector objectives.
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
7.01      For the economic analysis, the project is defined to include reha-
bilitation of 12 TTC hotels and lodges, technical assistance to the TTC,
an improved marketing system, a Hotel and Tourism Training Institute and
improvements of the Dar es Salaam Airport terminal. Improvements to a road
in the northern wildlife area is part of another Bank-financed project,
but for the economic analysis, improvement and maintenance costs that are
attributable to the portion (about 50%) of the road that is used mainly by
visitors to the northern wildlife area will be counted as part of this pro-
ject. This is done because the road is the main access to the wildlife
lodges and its rehabilitation Twould remove one obstacle to higher hotel
occupancy rates. Since most benefits from anti-poaching activities
cannot be quantified, this component was not included in the rate of
return calculation. A summary of the assumptions used in the economic
analysis is given in Annex III.
Occupancy Rates
7.02      Without the project the present hotels would continue to deteriorate
because of inadequate maintenance and replacement of equipment, and some
hotels and lodges would be forced to close down as a result of equipment
failure and/or as their occupancy rates reach uneconomical levels.



-39-
Hotels catering to holiday visitors would be more adversely affected than
those used mainly by business visitors. However, for the without project
case, it is conservatively assumed that occupancy rates of some hotels
would only moderately decline and of others will hold steady at present
levels. With the project, hotel occupancy rates are projected to grow
with the increase in demand for hotel accommodation as described in
paras. 5.05-5.12 and in Annex I, Table 6.
7.03      Apart from four hotels, the hotels in this project cater to few
Tanzanians. In the case of Moshi, New Safari, New Mwanza and Mikumi,
the local guests are predominantly businessmen. All hotels usually have
some local leisure guests, but these generally do not exceed 2 to 3% of
the total. Based on market projections (paras. 5.11-5.12 and Annex I,
Table 5), the share of local guests in these hotels will not change
significantly.
Benefits
7.04      The main source of project benefits is increased visitor traffic
to Tanzania resulting in higher hotel occupancies and therefore greater total
expenditures by holiday and business visitors. Local leisure guests are
not counted as a source of benefits, although their expenditures exceed
the economic costs. This conservative approach is used because it can
be argued that at least some of the leisure expenditures are merely
diverted from expenditures elsewhere in the economy. Expenditures of local
business guests are included in the project's benefits.
7.05      No spending that occurs outside the hotels is taken into account.
Although this adds another conservative bias to the analysis, since
foreign visitors spend substantial amounts on transportation, park fees,
and curios, this spending is excluded because the costs involved in providing
such services as park tours and transportation cannot be readily and accurately
measured from available data.  Tentative evidence indicates, however, that
if these costs and benefits were calculated on a marginal basis, the returns
would be attractive.
7.06      A second source of project benefits is expected to arise from
increases in room rates, averaging 10% in wildlife and beach hotels and
15% in city hotels. These increases are justified because (a) the hotels
will be renovated and will offer much improved services, and (b) prices are
higher at competing destinations offering similar services (e.g., Kenya).
During negotiations, agreement was reached that the TTC would prepare
and submit to IDA by end-1979 a study examining the feasibility and magni-
tude of real rate increases at its hotels and lodges, and recommending
policies and procedures for TTC tariff rate decisions.
7.07      After completion of the international passenger terminal building
in Dar es Salaam Airport, it is expected that about 250 departing and 100
arriving passengers compared to 100 and 40 respectively at present, could
be processed at the same time and that delays would be greatly reduced.



-40-
The beneficiaries of the airport rehabilitation works include (a) tourists
and local travelers who would require less processing time at the airport;
(b) airlines, which would have reduced aircraft turnaround time; and (c)
the tourist industry as a whole, which would gain from additional tourists.
The terminal building will have a life of 20 years but, since a new
airport project is contemplated in the distant future, the analysis
conservatively takes into account only ten years of operations.  It is
assumed that each tourist is taxed the full time-saving gains obtained
(Annex III).
Costs
7.08     Costs associated with generation of the above benefits relate to
project investment, replacement of investment, production of goods and
services related to the incremental guests and repair and maintenance.
Without the project, expenditures for repair and maintenance are estimated
to be 2 to 3% of replacement costs; with the project, they are set at the
same level or at 6% of hotel sales whichever is higher. Without the pro-
ject, operating costs as a percentage of sales are expected to be at their
1977 levels; with the project, as the occupancy levels of the various
facilities expand, the ratio of operating costs to sales will decline,
reflecting the fixed cost component in total operations (Annex I, Table 16).
The cost and benefit streams in 1978 prices are presented in Table 9 and
in Annex I, Table 17. Adjustment for foreign exchange shadow prices
has been made.
Benefits to Non-Project Hotels
7.09      The Mt. Meru Hotel in Arusha (192 rooms and 384 beds), owned by
the TTC, started operations in 1977. The hotel does not require any
investment under this project, but its occupancy rates depend on the
number of tourists arriving in Arusha en route to the northern wildlife
area, which would be affected by the implementation of the proposed pro-
ject. Incremental occupancy and net incremental revenue from foreign
guests of the Mt. Meru Hotel were calculated in Annex I, Table 17, and
are included in the project benefits.
Economic Rate of Return
7.10      Economic rates of return were first calculated for each hotel
based on the net incremental benefit streams with a 20-year life.
The lowest returns among the individual hotels are observed for Mikumi
Wildlife Lodge (10%), Mafia Island Lodge (11%), and New Moshi Hotel (11%);
the highest return is observed for the four northern wildlife lodges
combined (Lake Manyara, Ngorongoro, Seronera and Lobo)--32%. The rate
of return for the hotels as a whole is 22%.
7.11      As a second step, additional costs and benefits were added to
those of hotels to compute the economic rate of return on the project.
The added benefits include the incremental revenues to the Mt. Meru
Hotel and the benefits to the airport users. The external costs include:



Table 9. Project Economic Benefit and Cost Streams
(all foreign exchange components shadow priced at
US$1=12 shillings; figures in 1978 prices
'000 Sh)
INCREMENTAL REVENUES                                                                                INCREMIENTAL COSTS
From incremental guests 1/                                                                                                                                Technical              Airport
From room rate       Benefit to                     Botel             Hotel      Road investment    Ilotel training   assistance &
All Proj. Hotels       Mt. Meru    increases             airport users                  investment 2/   R & M        and maintenance    school               marketing         Investment       0 & M
1979                     0                0              1558                                              42049          5240            3483                 3350             5273              -              -
1980                  453                 0              2181                                              32418          5386            3483                 3350             5273           4200               _
1981                 2609                 0              4930                  -                           18108          5654             838                 3350             5273          10000             281
1982                 9671              2591              7774                1944                           8825          6123             838                   -                -               -             281
1983                17291              5492              7676                2076                             -           6603             838                   -                -               -             281
1984                27160              9023              7568                2220                             -           6603             838                    -               -               -             281
1985                34439             11377              7461                2376                             -           6603             838                    -               -               -             281  j,
1986                38447             14515              7354                2544                           5256          6603             838                   -                -               -             281
1987                42024             17654              7258                2724                           5256          6603             838                   -                -               -             281
1988                44749             17654              7162                2916                             -           6603             838                    -               -               -             281
1989                46097             17654              7067                3120                             -           6603             838                    -               -               -              281
1990                47447             17654              6972                3336                             -           6603             838                    -               -               -             281
1991                48675             17654              6879                3580                          28268          6603             838                    -               -               -             281
1992                49924             17654              6782                  -                           28268          6603             838                    -               --
1993                51072             17654              6688                  -                              -           6603             838                    -               -               -              -
1994                52184             17654              6594                                                 -           6603             838                    -               -               -              -
1995                53392             17654              6499                  -                              -           6603             838                    -               -               -              -
1996                54372             17654              6406                  -                            5256          6603             838                    -               -               -              -
1997                54372             17654              6406                  -                            5256          6603             838                    -               -               -              -
1998                54372             17654              6406                  -                              -           6603             838                    -               -               -              -
1999                54372             17654              6406                                                 -           6603             838                    -               -               -              -
2000                54372             17654              6406                  -                              -           6603             838                    -               -               -              -
2001                54372             17654              6406                  -                          (20962)         6603             838                    -               -               _              _
1/ These receipts are net of cost of producing the goods and services.
2/ includes replacement costs.



-42-
( i) the costs (investment and maintenance) of the
tourist road to the northern wildlife area lodges;
( ii) 45% of the cost of marketing and 45% of the cost
of the HTTI, in line with the TTC's share in total
hotel capacity in Tanzania (the other 55% of these
costs and associated benefits accrue to other
hotels);
(iii) the costs of technical assistance to TTC and of
marketing; and
( iv) the cost of the airport terminal building.
After inclusion of these costs and benefits, the rate of return on the
project as a whole is 21% (best estimate).
7.12      The sensitivity test which follows shows how various
assumptions are expected to affect the economic rate of return (ERR) on
the project:
Assumption                               ERR (%)
(a)  Investment costs (%):    +10           20
-10         23
(b)  Benefits (%):             +10          24
-10         20
(c)  Investment costs (%)      +10          18
and Benefits   (%):    -10
(d)  Benefits delayed (yrs):    1           18
2         16
3         14
(e) Open border with
Kenya:                               20
Project Beneficiaries
7.13      Direct beneficiaries of this project include (a) the Government;
(b) employees in hotel and other tourist services; (c) owners of other
hotels catering to tourists; and (d) producers of curios and handicrafts.
7.14      The Government will benefit in several ways from this project.
In the 1977 calendar year, it spent about TSh 10 million in subsidies used
to finance TTC's operations. However, it is estimated that, by 1983, Govern-
ment taxes on TTC profits would amount to TSh 20 million and after-tax
profits of TTC would amount to TSh 22 million. Sales taxes on hotel
room and full board rates, directly attributable to this project, will
add an incremental TSh 3 million to Government revenues and incremental
entry fees to parks and wildlife areas will also add a similar amount.



-43-
7.15      Although the basic thrust of the project is to maximize use
and foreign exchange earnings from existing facilities, the project also
has employment benefits. The project is expected to require 600 con-
struction jobs throughout the construction period. About 450 jobs will be
created or saved in TTC hotels as a result of the project. A similar
number of jobs will be added in directly related areas such as shops,
travel agencies, parks,transportation services and handicrafts. The cost
per direct job created or saved by the hotel rehabilitation is about
US$12,000.
7.16      Although TTC will incur the cost of marketing and promoting
Tanzania's tourist attractions, the benefits from these activities will
also be enjoyed by other hotel owners through increased occupancy rates
and earnings. Producers of curios and handicrafts will also benefit
from the project. By 1987, tourist expenditures on curios and handicrafts
are expected to reach about TSh 16 million compared to about TSh 8 million
in 1976.
7.17      In Tanzania, almost all of the foodstuff and beverages consumed
in the hotels are produced locally. With increased tourist activities, the
demand for food and beverage would rise significantly, generating extra
income and employment in the agricultural and food processing sectors.
Balance of Payment Effects
7.18      The direct and indirect foreign exchange effects have been
implicitly included in the economic rate of return. Foreign exchange in-
flows will come from tourist expenditures within the country. Outflows will
arise from replacement of investments, repair and maintenance costs, operating
costs and credit repayments. The expected flows of foreign exchange over the
life of the project are given in Table 10. As the figures demonstrate,
Tanzania would retain an average of about 72% of the gross foreign exchange
receipts it earns from the project.
Table 10. Foreign Exchange Inflows and Outflows
Arising from the Project
(US$ ' 000)1/
Net Foreign
Exchange
Foreign   Foreign                          Receipts as a
Exchange  Exchange in  Foreign  Net        Percentage
Tourist        in      Replacement  Exchange Foreign  of Tourist
Incremental Operating & Repair &      Debt   Exchange  Incremental
Year  Expenditures   Costs   Maintenance  Service  Receipts  Expenditures
1985      4,180       500         550         100      3,030        72
1990      6,110        730        550         450      4,380        72
1/ In 1978 prices.



-44-
Project Risks
7.19      The success of the project depends to a large extent on per-
suading European and North American tour operators (who by and large have
avoided Tanzania since 1972) to schedule package tours to Tanzania. This
will be determined by the ccurntry's ability to provide adequate facilities
and service, adequate air access and internal air services, good marketing
management, sufficient funds for promotion, and the willingness of the
public to welcome tourists. Marketing is particularly important since the
closure of the land border with Kenya means that Tanzania cannot rely on
the efficient Kenyan tour operators, w ho traditionally brought most
tourists to the northern wildlife area. Although the project provides all
the ingredients necessary to ensure success of the marketing campaign,
the forecast of tourist flows to Tanzania contains a substantial element
of risk.
7.20      The Tanzania Tourist Corporation requires immediate strengthening
in the areas of marketing, engineering, supplies and distribution, and
communications and reservations; the project provides technical assistance
in all these areas. However, the ability of TTC to use this assistance
effectively and to train its own staff will determine the degree to which
TTC will be able to adequately conduct its operations beyond the project
period.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
8.01      Agreements were reached between the Government and IDA during
negotiations on the following:
( i) an acceptable site in Dar es Salaam for the
H-TTI will be determined in consultation
with IDA (para. 3.12);
( ii) the Government shall continue to pursue
policies consistent with the preservation
of wildlife resources. Any maior proposed
changes in policies affecting wildlife pre-
servation, relating to organization and
staffing of anti-poaching units, licensing
of hunting, dealing in and exporting of
trophies shall be submitted to the
Association in sufficient time to enable
it to comment on them. A report dealing
with the wildlife situation in Tanzania
and the results of anti-poaching activities
shall also be furnished annually to the
Association (para. 3.19);



-45-
(iii) the Government shall upgrade the Makuyuni-
Serengeti road to an all-weather standard
and maintain it in accordance with sound
engineering standards (para. 3.21);
( iv)  the head teacher for the ETTI will be
nominated by end-1979 (para. 4.11);
( v) all HTTI technical assistance appointments
will be made in consultation with IDA
(para. 4.11);
( vi) the Government will study and inform IDA
by the end of 1980 of the method of
financing HTTI operations (para. 4.12);
(vii) an accounting system acceptable to IDA will
be installed in the HTTI six months prior
to its expected opening, and annual audited
financial statements for the HTTI will be
furnished to IDA within six months of the
end of each fiscal year (para. 4.12);
(viii) the terms on which the Government will pass
on the funds to the executing agencies
(para. 4.16);
( ix) the Government will provide Serengeti Safari
Lodges Ltd. with additional equity funds
equal to due and overdue principal and
interest on overdue loans (para. 6.11); and
( x)  the Government will fund TTC new capital
expenditure in excess of TSh 2 million per
fiscal year to the extent not funded through
new long-term borrowing elsewhere unless
TTC's consolidated current ratio after such
expenditure exceeds 1.1 to 1 (para. 6.14).
8.02      The following agreements were reached with TTC during
negotiations:
( i) all technical assistance appointments will
be made in consultation with IDA (para.
3.09);
( ii) TTC will nominate, by April 30, 1979 a
coordinator to overview the hotel rehabi-
litation program (para. 4.08);



-46-
(iii) TTC will, by December 31, 1981, have reached
and thereafter maintain an annual level of
repair and maintenance expenditure equivalent
to at least 6% of total hotel sales or 2% of
the current value of its principal fixed
assets, whichever is higher (para. 4.09);
( iv) financial statements for each subsidiary and
consolidated financial statements for TTC
and subsidiaries audited by the Tanzania
Audit Corporation or by other independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, will be submitted to IDA within
six months of the end of each fiscal year
(para. 6.06);
( v)  TTC will reappraise all principal fixed assets
in current values and raise insurance coverage to
cover current value by September 30, 1979 and
will adjust coverage periodically thereafter with
changes in current values (para. 6.07);
( vi) TTC will not undertake new capital expenditures in
excess of TSh 2 million per fiscal year to
the extent not funded through Government funding
or long-term borrowing as long as its consolidated
current ratio after such expenditures is below
1.1 to 1 (para. 6.14); and
(vii) TTC will prepare and submit to IDA, by December 31,
1979, a study examining the feasibility and magnitude
of real rate increases at its hotels and lodges and
recommending policies and procedures for TTC tariff
rate decisions (para. 7.06).



ANNEX I
-47-                    Table 1
TANZANIA: TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
HOTELS, ROOMS AND BEDS BY REGION
Region                  1969      1970      1971      1972      1973       1974      1975      1976
Dar es Salaam:
Hotels                21        30        30        31        31        29         30        30
Rooms                731      1295      1282      1361      1360      1332      1380      1373
Beds                1381      2448      2398      2579      2586      2577      2660       2755
Arusha Moshi:
Hotels                13        16        17        18        17        19         19        19
Rooms                409       468       475       475       480       505       512       499
Beds                 689       809       815       787       826       863       872       851
Northern Wildlife
Area:
Hotels                 7        10        10         9         9        10         10        10
Rooms                270       492       527       540       507       558       581       611
Beds                 545       993      1040      1094      1028      1135      1062      1239
Zanzibar:
Hotels                 2         2         2         2         2         4          4         3
Rooms                 37        37        37        37        37       110       166       160
Beds                  80        80        80        76        76       232       340       314
Other Areas:
Hotels                39        42        44        44        46        47        48         53
Rooms                545       587       648       632       677       697       676       745
Beds                1008      1115      1135      1179      1258      1266      1240      1345
Total:
Hotels                82       100       103       104       105       109       111        115
Rooms               1992      2879      2969      3045      3061      3202      3315      3388*
Beds                3703      5445      5468      5715      5774      6073      6174      6504*
*  The Mt. Meru Hotel completed in 1977, brings present hotel capacity to about 3,600
rooms and 6,900 beds.
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics.



TANZANIA: TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
FOREIGN VISITOR ARRIVALS BY MODE OF TRAVEL,
1/
AREA OF RESIDENCE AND PURPOSE OF VISIT-
Year and Area                   Immigrants              Visitors on Holiday            Visitors on Business             Not
of Residence          Air       Road      Other       Air      Road      Other       Air       Road      Other       Stated      Total
1971
Africa                87         34        171    8,520    16,1/9       1,982    8,067       2,758      1,700        3,283    42,781
America               30         13         55    6,069    12,346          315      964         87         23          648    20,550
Asia                  26          6         35    1,347      1,333         265    1,007          37        75          629      4,160
Europe               127         46        190   12,532    13,242         835    4,013         293         81        1,785    33,144
Oceania                2          8         45       365        558         28       98         11          1            99     1,215
N/S 2/               152         13        181       323        310         78        90         24        14           210     1,395
Total                  424        12 0       677   29,156    43,968       3,503   14,239       3,21        ,846,5    10:3,~5
1973
Africa                87         71        325    6,764    19,850       1,669    7,823       2,398        642        3,810    43,439
America               38         28         41    4,686    16,154          267      819        166         15          544    22,758
Asia                 215          2         27    1,117       2,015        357    1,081          89       130        2,365      7,398
Europe               292        109        289   11,425    20,637          494    3,667        454         80        2,743    40,190
Oceania               16         --         88       277        856         59       50           7        --          124      1,477
N/S                   94         22        241       355        552        103      163          22        27        1,219      2,798
Total                  742        232      1,011   24,624    60,064        2,949   13,603      3,136        894       10,805   118,060
1974
Africa               131         68        124    9,853    17,120    17,885   13,050         2,673        217        4,128    65,249
America               54         26         11    6,962    15,962          223    1,497        199          25          679    25,638
Asia                 179         --          6    1,907       1,950        222    1,929          98         81       2,533      8,905
Europe               212         10        106   15,132    18,490          456    6,315        441        134        3,404    44,700
Oceania               20         13         96       528     1,108          25      143          21          7          181     2,142
N/S                   10         13         92       339        242         16      132          15         32          878     1,769
Total                  606        130        435   34,721    54,872    18,827   23,066         3,447         496      11,803   148,403
Source: Statistics Department of TTC using data from Central Bureau of Statistics.
1/ Excluding Transit Visitors
2/ N/S-not stated



ANNEX I
Table 3
-49-
TANZANIA: TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
HOTEL STATISTICS SUMMARY 1971-76
(in '000)
1971       1972        1973        1974        1975        1976
Roomnights available        1083.3      1075.6      1016.7      1120.3     1168.1      1203.9
Roomnights occupied             NA       531.9       559.6       643.0       672.5      680.0
Room occupancy rate             NA        49.5        55.0        57.4        57.6       57.6
Bednights available         1995.8      2011.8      1862.1     2138.8      2220.5      2302.1
Bednights occupied           743.0       786.0       788.4       925.7      993.0       997.9
Bed occupancy rate            37.2        39.1        42.3        43.3       44.7        43.8
Bednights occupied:
Tanzanian                  256.3       297.2      328.4       438.0       467.1       436.1
% of Total                  34.5        37.8       41.7        47.3        47.0        43.7
Visitors                   486.7       488.8      465.0       487.7       525.9       561.9
% of Total                  65.5        62.6       58.3        52.7        53.0        56.3
of which:
Kenyan/Ugandan              37.9        38.3       37.8        42.3        44.6        44.3
% of visitors                7.8        7.8         8.1         8.7         8.5         8.8
other Africans              30.5        30.3       33.7        43.3        48.2        52.0
% of visitors                6.3        6.2         7.2         8.9         9.2         9.1
Europeans                 252.6       243.2       223.1       205.8       208.1       226.7
% of visitors               51.9       49,8        48.0        42.2        39.6       40.2
Americans                 118.9       137.4       130.9       128.5       107.3       111.6
% of visitors               24.4       28.1        28.2        26.3        20.4       19.5
Asians & Australians        46.8       39.6        39.5        67.8       117.7      127,4
% of visitors                9.6        8.1         8.5        13.9        22.3       22.4
Sources: Tanzania Tourist Corporation, Bureau of Statistics



TANZANIA: TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
TOTAL NUMBER OF VISITS TO THE NATIONAL PARKS
1974                         1975                          1976               1976          1977 (Jan-Sept)
Paid   Un-Paid              Paid   Un-Paid                Paid   Un-Paid              Jan-Sept    Paid   Un-Paid
Visits   Visits    Total   Visits   Visits    Total    Visits   Visits          Total    Total    Visits   Visits    Total
Serengeti      83,954    1,888   85,842   93,868    1,170   95,038   110,687           702   111,389    82,862   27,270         492   27,762
Lake Manyara   57,556       215   57,771   60,649        363   61,012    64,952        454    65,406    48,537   15,448         171   15,619
Arusha          13,146      688   13,834   13,327    1,148   14,475    16,110    1,836    17,946    12,948    5,974             540    6,514
Ngorongoro      70,420      853   71,273   72,524        773   73,297    55,799        339    56,138    42,100    5,556         493    6,049
Mikumi           9,530    4,880   14,410   13,508    3,670   17,178    11,208    3,455    14,663    12,116    7,891             148    8,039
Ruaha              891      717    1,608        949      926    1,875      1,386    1,190       2,576     2,014       461        30      491
Tarangire        8,471              8,471   10,285       379   10,664    12,049        781    12,830      9,212    2,413         60    2,473  u
Kilimanjaro    - - - - -                   NOT OPERATIONAL AS A NATIONAL PARK - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    1,646            301    1,947
Total         243,968    9,241  253,209  265,110    8,429  273,539   272,191    8,757   280,948   209,789   66,659    2,235   68,894
Source: Bureau of Statistics
I> H



TANZANIA: TOBRISM aBBhILITAIION PROJECT
ACTUAL BRDNIGhTS BY REGION FOR 1976. RSTIMATED FOR 1977 AND PROJBCTIONS FOR 1978-1990
Oar en Oalae         B_Dar Os  almauD M Beach                        Bonth-en Wildlife Are-           _                Arha/lMshi                           Z-aib-ar                  Other Areas                  Grand Totgl
Add'l
Base    BNA
Foreign  Leral   Toal   ForeiBg   Teor-it Lecal   Tetal  NBober    Average  Foreig=  Locd  - Total                   Aver-ae  Forrigo  Local   Total  Foreign   Lecal   Total    Fereige  Local    Total    Fereig   Lacal    Total
Bed-    Bed-   BRd-    Bed-       Bed-      Bed-    Bed-    of        Leogth    Bed-      Bed-    Bed-   To-rieta  Length    Bed-       Bed-    Bed-    Bed_       Bad-    Bed-      Bad-      Bed-     Bed-      Bad-     Bed-      Bed-
Soar  _nightt   ighte  eighte  eihtes    iht    nihthn  eights  Xorieta  of 8ta  qiehtia   oighte niehe  to NA    of St.c  niRhte   niahte  oiahta  night-    niehtsniRhte   Bights   nights    ihts    fit.   aihts   nightg
1976   207.0    244.6   531.6    43.2        -_      51.2    94.4      67.0*    2.40    161.3    10.2    171.5       67.0      1.0      68.8    73.3    142.1    10.6        8.2     26.8    18.6      139.2    157.8    597.5    526.7   1124.2
1977   307.1    264.2   571.3    30.0        --      55.3    05.3      15.0     2.4       36.0    11.2      47.2     15.0      1.0      15.0    s6.n      01.0    18.6       8.9     27.5    16.0      144.8    160.8    422.7    540.4    963.1
1978   328.6    285.3   613.9    32.4        --      59.7    92.1      15.0      2.4      36.0    12.3      48.3     15.0      1.1      16.5    60.5      77.0    18.6       9.6     28.2    17.0      150.6    167.6    449.1    578.0   1027.1
1979   351.6    308.1   659.7    35.0        _       64.5    99.5      22.0      2.5      55.0    13.6      68.6     22.0      1.2      26.4    65.3      91.7    20.5      10.3     30.8    18.0      156.6    174.6    506.5    618.4   1124.9
1980   376.2    332.8   709.0    37.8        -_      69.7   107.5      50.2      2.6      78.5    14.9      93.4     30.2      1.3      39.3    70.5    109.8    22.5       11.2     33.7    19.0      162.8    181.8    573.3    661.9   1235.2
1981   402.5    359.4   761.9    40.8        __      75.2   116.0      35.9     2.7       96.9    16.4    113.3      35.9      1.4      50.3    76.2    126.5    24.8       12.0     36.8    20.4      169.4    189,8    635.7    708.6   1344.3
1902   430.7    308.1   010.0    44.1    16.9        01.2   142.2      42.3      2.8     118.4    18.1    136.5      42.3      1.6      67.7    82.3    150.0    27.2       13.0     40.2    21.9      176.1    198.0    726.9    758.8   1405.7
1983   460.9    419.2   880.1    47.6    23.8        87.7   159.1      49.5     2.9      143.6    19.9    163.5      49.5      1.8      89.1    00.9    178.0    30.0       14.1     44.1    23.4      183.2    206.6    818.4    813.0   1631.4
1904   493.1    452.7   945B    51.4    32.3         94.8   178.5      57.6     3.0      172.8    21.9    194.7      57.6      2.0     115.2    96.0    211.2    33.0       15.2     48.2    24.9      190.5    215.4    922.7    871.1   1793.8
1985   527.6    489.0  1016.6    55.5    42.6       102.3   200.4      66.6     3.0      199.8    24.1    223.9      66.6      2.0     133.2   103.7    236.9    36.2       16.4     52.6    26.4      198.1    224.5  .1021.3    933.6   1954.9
1986   564.6    528.1  1092.7    60.0    55.3       110.5   225.8      76.8      3.0     230.4    26.5    256.9      76.8      2.0     153.6   111.9    265.5    39.9       17.7     57.6    27.9      206.1    234.0   1131.7   1000.8   2132.5
1907   604.1    570.3  1174.4    64.8    70.5       119.4   254.7      88.1      3.0     264.3    29.1    293.4      88.1      2.0     176.2   120.9    297.1    43.9       19.1     63.0    29.4      214.3    243.7   1253.2   1073.1   2326.3 3.e
1900   646.4    415.9  1262.3    69.9    88.6       120.9   207.4    100.7      3.0      302.1    32.0    334.1    100.7       2.0     201.4   130.6    332.0    48.2       20.6     68.8    30.9      222.9    253.8   1387.5  I110.9   2538.4
1989   691.6    665.2  1356.8    75.5   110.2       139.2   324.9    114.8       3.0     339.8    35.2    375.0    114.8       2.0     229.6   141.0    370.6    53.1       22.3     75.4    32.4      231.8    264.2   1532.2   1234.7   2706.9 6'
1990   740.0    718.4  1458.4    81.6   135.6       150.4   367.6    114.8       3.0     339.8    35.2    375.0    114.8       2.0     229.6   152.3    381.9    58.4       24.1     82.5    33.9      241.0    274.9   1618.9   1321.4   2940.3                  o -
0 E.tiFated



*52-                                                                                                    ANN6  7
T7ble 6
$3116804030                                          856 AFRICA                                           04injCNW                                                                                             -    82850C
7roJecteC bed            RetaIne   b.detts          Pdee Ct  bed             Retained bedctgbt.          YPeJ qeed bed             Reltaied bedolobee         ProJacted bed           AettLnffd beeCrIght.          Projete   bed          etatlneC bednlgbce
A3cO5SAA7 (7)            dd.ltoepeSeA P             n ct.p.ncy  57)           Aceto project               cocqpncsyj(7J            doetco pro$et               oatcaoy 72              doe      cjl toPO -o10ccncy (t)                     duA  eo pro8cA
-lob        cIshoot      v__ _ __ _ _ _               eAc       ed  bth o     _ _ __ _ __        _         elth       .,Icbct       __ _ _ __ _ _ __            ve         elehoce      _   _ _ _ __                  etch      debt   e      __ _ __ _ __ _
3$,.  53   05                            S 89       R9                    0                    43         43                      0                 20         20                     0                  35         35                     0
330            $0          59                      0                R7         07                     0                   48         48                      0                 17         17                                        3    30
3938            57          53                      0                90         8390                                       10         50                      0                 20         20                     0                                                    0
1869          S7          57                     0                 30         9$                     0                   50         50                      0                 20         20                     0                  32         32                     0
;780            57          57                     0                 90         90                     0                   50        .50                                        35        20                 1095                    33        If                  150
3661            $7          5b                  1431                 90         S9                   460                              49                    730                 30         20                 219C                   '4         21 1051
"39            57          55                  2662                                                161                    5 5        48                  5110                  35         20                 3285                   37          d230101
993  $0        54                  6~~~        ~        ~~~        ~~~~~~~292  80  0   0741                   67         46                  00220                 40         20                 4380                    4           935
sS4            57          53                  5723                  90        86                  2321<                  65         44                  15330                 45         20                 5475                   45         26                  5256
1335            30          52                  7154                 90         03                 2902                    $0         42                 20440                  50         20                 6750                   46         27                  6658
3386  57        51                  85~~        ~        ~~~       ~~~~~~85  90  84     482                    70         8                  21900                  35         20                 7865                   50         26                 0410
138$     37          50~~~~~~~'         101                    80        8                   02                      0         526503                           0              0                       86760                  54         25                10162
30587           57          49                 1148                  90         22 4643                                    00         33                 23360                  60         2                                         56         25                11563
189R           57          48                 12877                  90        El                 5223                    70         37                 24090                  60          0                  870                   63          25                115 I
$980            57          47                 14308                 90         80                 5684                              3S                 240820                 60         20                 8760                   68         21                15060
1991            57         46                  25739                 90         79                 0384                    70         35                 25550                  60         20                  8760                  70         25                15768
1662     17         ~~~                ~~~~~45  17150         90         0866                                        0          4220                                     60         20                  7606                  70         28156
339$            97          44190                                     90        00                 75%45                    0         35                 2722                   6          20                   760                  00         25156
39             57          45                 tC2003                960        76                 6125                    72         52                  27740                 60         20                  8760                  00          25                15768
380$            57          42                 2242                   90         5                 0705                     70        31                 28470                  60         22                 8760                   70         25                 05068
3996-2001       57          41                 22853                  90        74                 9286                    70         30                 292X                   60          0                 87600                  70         25                 I5768
9669021     46                           228                 9400048                                               3666                                                  2009.86
M01-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Scojeoted bed           Ratc Ced  4.84igbte            87 oted led                Octatlcd bednit3ht        0r      ed bed            Rlatened bedoilhte           -rlJe-led bed              OnCoed bed5lelsh            Projected bed e,ei-ned bednlshl
2occpn5 y (91            deto pr4Ject -.occopaocy 7-                )             OeIy to  ject             oco pa      I(y ,77       d-etooJeot                  ec168t70-7)07               04etop207ec9               coccu eny0 (7)             d-cvpeoJec
oott      etithhN7       _________________              ith        cithoAt        _________                  Leb       0!3bssLt        __________           _     466          ethoot         _         _I__with_         wIth       cbtc_h_-h-_thq
9376          56        55                        0                $3            $3                       0              34          34                       0                 36          36                     3                    45         45                     0
3$             3316     16                        0                 "I           16                       0               10                                   0                 10          10                     0                    48         4'S                    2
3979           22        22                        2                 2,1          21                       o                4          1                                         14          14                                          49         49                    0
1660           30        7                                          28           29                       0               1      9    06                                       2W0         '                      0                    52        49                  222
188            97                                  0                 35           35                     o.                22~         22                      o                 24          24                                                    46 5528662
1982           4S        7'                    5888                  42           35                    3966               29          22                   2730                 29          24                  2738                    58        47                  4497
188            5   5'  ;                       1078                  50            5                     11                32          22                   546S                 54          24                  545                     62        46                  6541
134     4         7                   59907                  60           75                    42353              38          22                   938564                           24                  990                     63        45                  670
188543         31 77                          3853                   96           3$                  t 5 ;                           222219360           12045                  54 246 93                                               69        44                 10220
1985           75        57                   t57                    70           35                  19929                51          22                 15670                  54          24                16425                     70        45                 11058
9687           35        37                   26817                  70           05                  59829                58          22                 190                   62          24                20805                     70        42                1I46
1688          'S        57                   23017                  30           35                  199299               45          22                 23943                  85          24                22440                     '0        41                 112855A
3989         35        57                   28017                  70           35                  18929                65          20                 23543                  65          24                22446                     70        46                 12
1990           75        37                    3817                   0           35                  19929                65          22                  23543                 65          24                22448                     70         9126735
1992      3         7     7                   2X017                  72           35                   19929               65          22                  23543                 65          24                22440                     70          6                1368
1992           2557317                                               02            5                   1992                65          22                  255435                            24                 22440                    70         57                1345
3995     79        5~         ~        ~~~~7 2607,             70            5                  1992                 95          22                 2553                   65          24                2244                     70         36                1589
1994            75       37                    3817                  70            55                  19929               65          22                  23543                 65          24                 22440                    70         35               14588
0995           75        37                    3617                  70           35                   19929               65          22                  23543                 65          24                22446                     70        34                 4712
1996-2001       75       37                    2J017                 70           55                   19929               65          22                  23545         -       65          24                22440                     '0         33                15186
N  S7u                                                MOSHI
Projected bd              ttaed  b6.ibt.                Projeed bed                Rete-ne-&bednlgho.
20c8900   100(7           dueRtgproJept                 cccupency (7)              de to pnojeot
3909           61           61                    0                    j3        30
2977           31           31                    0                    24         24                        0
0978           2S           28                    0                    26         06                        0
1979           30           V0                    0                    26         24                        
19A0           32           32                                         29         29                        0
1981           40            '                 3n                      31         30                      394
1962           45           30                 6187                    33         29                    1577
19"5 ,          0           30                 82.9                    35         2R                     2759
1984           55           30                10311                    30         27                     3942
1985           60           30                12374                    39         26                     5125
1546           65           30                14435                    42         25                    6701
"167           65           30                1443                     44         25                    7490
1988           65           30                1443                     47         25                     602
1985           65           30                143                      50         25                    9855
1980           65           30                14430                    53         25                   '1030
1951           65           30                1431                     56         25                   12220
1992           65           30               14436                     59         25                   13403
1993           65           30                14430                    63         25                   54980
1994           65           30                14430                    66         25                   14990
165            65          30                1443                     70         25                   16162
1999-200       65           30                14436                    70         25                   17738



TANZANIA: TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUMMALY OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(in TSh'OOO)
Rate of Exchange: US$1.00=TSh8.00
Furniture                Total Physical  Professional   Technical    Marketing                       Proiect Total
Project Component                    Civil Works  & Fixtures  Equipment    Facilities            Services      Assistance  Expenditures             Tsh(OOO)      US$(000)
A.  TTC Hotel Rehabilitation                      23,970         8,220        29,346         61,536            6,154                                           67,690          8,461
B.  TTC Marketing Expenditures                                                                                                              5,800               5,800            725
C.  Hotel & Tourism Training Institute            11,010         1,025        1,630          13,665            1,777                                           15,442         1,930
D.  Terminal Facilities,                                                                                                                                       10,608         1,326
Dar es Salaam Airport                          7,045           375        2,224           9,644              964
E.  Technical Assistance:
to TTrC                                                                                                              5405,400                                            675
to IITTI                                                                                                             8,100                              8,100          1,013      1
F.  Antipoaching                                                               3.800          3.800                                                                00 _  __3.800475
Base Cost                                 42,025          9,620       37,000         88,645            8,895         13,500         5,800             116,840         14,605
G.     Contingencies:
(a)  Physical Increase (7.5%)              4,202            962        3,700          8,864                                                             8,864          1,108
(b)  Price Increase (22.0%)               12,188          2,302       10,344         24,834            1,592         2980             890              30,296          3,787
Subtotal (G.)                            16.390         3.264        14,044         33.698            1.592         2,980            890              39,160          4,895
PROJECT TOTAL (A. to  ,)                     58,415         12,884       51,044         122,343           10.487        16,480         6,690              156,000        19L50
Foreign Exchange Component
Percentage of Total Cost                  62.5%          74.9%        82.9%           72.3%           35.0%          90.3%         74.0%              71.8%
in TSh'ODO                            36,510         9,650       42,340          88,500            3,670        14,880          4,950             112,000                     (Dx
in US$'000                             4,564         1,206         5,292         11,062              459         1,860            619                             14.000



TANZANIA: TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES
(in Tsh'OOO)
Civil Works            Furniture & Fixtures                 Eqaipment             Professional Services        Technical Assistance       Marketing Enpenditures         Total Cooti.gen.ies
Local  Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total
TOTAL PROJECT COST
EXCLUDING CONTINGENCIES         14,710   27,315    42,025    2,405       7,215   9,620      5,550   31,450   37,000      5,782     3,113   8,895      1,310   12,190   13,500    1,430      4,370   5,800    31,187    85,653   116,840
Percentage of Total               35.0      65.0     100.0      25.0      75.0   100.0       15.0     85.0    100.0       65.0      35.0   100.0        9.7     90.3    100.0      24.7       75.3  100.0       26.7      73.3      100.0
CONTINGENCIES
(a) Allowance for Probable
Price Increases:
(i)  Percentage               37.0     24.7       29.0     24.4       23.7    23.9      46.8      24.6     28.0       17.9      17.9    17.9       22.1     22.1     22.1      21.7      13.2   15.3        32.9      23.4      25.9
(ii) Agount                  5,451    6,737    12,188       588      1,714   2,302     2,599    7,745   10,344       1,035       557   1,992        290    2,690    2,980       310       580     890    10,265    20,031    30,296
(b) Allowances for 'nforeseen
(i)c erc                      11.9      9.0       10.0     10.0       10.0    10.0      10.0      10.0     10.0                                                                                              8.3       7.4        7.6
(ii) Amount                  1,744    2,458      4,202      241        721     962       555    3,145    3,700                                                                                             2,548     6,316     8,864
(c) Total Contingency
Allowances
(i)   Percentage              48.9     33.7       39.0     34.4       33.7    33.9      56.8      34.6     38.0       17.9      17.9    17.9      22.1      22.1     22.1     21.7       13.2    15.3      41.1       30.8      33.5
(ii)  Amoant                 7,195    9,195    16,390       829      2,435   3,264     3,154   10,890   14,044       1,035      55.7   1,592       290    2,690    2,980        310       580     890    12,813    26,347    39,160
(iii) Percentage of Total    40.3      59.7      100.0     25.4       74.6   100.0      22.5      77.5    100.0       65.0      35.0   100.0       9.7      90.3   100.0      34.8       65.2   100.0       32.8      67.2     100.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST
INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES         21,905   36,510    58,415    3,234       9,650  12,884      8,704   42,340   51,044      6,817      3,i;70  10,487    1,600   14,880   16,480    1,740      4,950   6,690    44,000   112,000   156,000
Percentage of Total               37.5      62.5     100.0      25.1      74.9   100.0       17.1     82.9    100.0       65.0       35.0   100.0       9.7     90.3    100.0      26.0      74.0   100.0       28.2      71.8      100.0
Excha-ge Rate: us$1.00 = TShillings 8.00                                                                                                                                                                                                     4
Price EIscalatio  (%)                                                1978       1979      1980       1981      1982       1983
Civil Nerks: clctoren in coral areas          12.0      11.0      10.0        9.0       8.0        8.0
structures in other areas        8.0       7.5        7.0       7.0        7.0       7.0
Furoit-re, Fictures acd Fqoipen-t              7.0       6.5        6.0       6.0       6.0        6.0
Professi-oal Services, Techcic-l Asoistance
sod Msrkcti::g Espc-dit-rvs                8.0        7.5       7.0        7.0       7.0        7.0



TANZANIA: TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
First Year              Second Year             Third Year               Fourth Yr
Quarter:     3     4     1*    2      3     4     5     6      7     8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16
A. TTC Hotel Rehabilitation
Civil Works                                      ppp   m           xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx                 A xxx   AAA    A   AAA
Furniture and equipment                    LLL   ppp   TTT                DDD   DDD   DDD   DDD   DDD   DDD   DDD   VVV   VV   VWV   VVV
B. TTC Marketing Expenditures                           QQQ   QQQ   EEE   EEE   EEE   EEE   E        EE   EEE   EEE EEE   EEE
C. Hotel and Tourism Training lnstitute
School: civil worcs                              PPP   PPP   TTT          XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   MA   AAA   AAA
Furniture and equipment                          LLL   ppp   TTT                DDD   DDD   DDD   V    VVV   VVV   VVV
Practice hotel: civil works                      PPP   PPP   TTT1         XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   AAA   AAA   AAA
Furniture and equipment                          LLL   ppp   TTT                      DDD   DDD   DDD   DDD   VVV   VVV         V VVV
D. Terminal Facilities,
Dar es Salaam Airport
Civil works                                            PPP   TTT          XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   AAA   AAA   AAA
Furniture and equipment                                LLL   ppp   TTT                DDD  DDD   VW   VVV   VVV   VVV
E. Technical Assistance
to TTC:
Expatriate specialists                              222   222   555   555   777   777   777   777   666   666   333   333
To HTTI
Expatriate specialists                        111   111   111   111   111   111   777   777   777   777   777   777   666   666  666    666
Scholarships                                  SSS   SSS   SSS   SSS   SSS   SSS   SSS   SSS   SSS   SSS
F. Antipoaching                                       IWWW   WWW   WWW 
LEGEND:  *  Effectiveness                                         E  Implementation of marketing progr.:m
P  Preparation of design, specifications                X  Construction period
and tendering documents                           D  Delivery and installation                                                           mX
L  Preparation of furniture and equipment lists         A  Defect liability period
p  Preparation of tendering documents                   V  Guarantee period
T  Tendering and contract award                        1-7 Manmonths of technical assistance
Q  Preparation of marketing program                      S  Scholarships
W  Antipoaching equipment



ANNEX 1
-56-                          Table 10
TANZANIA:  TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ million)
Accumulated      Undisbursed
Calendar                         Disbursements    Disbursements         Balance
FY        Year            Semester/l      Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount   %
1979
1                                               14.0  100.9
80
2           0.4    2.9       0.4      2.9       13.6   97.1
1980
1           0.8    5.7       1.2      8.6       12.8   91.4
81
2           1.8   12.8       3.0     21.4       11.0   78.6
1981
1           2.4   17.2       5.4     38.6        8.6 . 61.4
82
2           2.8   20.0       8.2     58.6        5.8   41.4
1982
1           3.0   21.4      11.2     80.0        2.8   20.0
83
2           2.2   15.7      13.4     95.7        0.6    4.3
1983
1           0.6    4.3      14.0    100.0        0.0    0.0
84
2
1984
1
85
/1   Beginning from date of Loan/Credit Agreement



ANNEX I
-57-                                       Table 11
TANZANIA: TOURISM REHABILITATICN PROJECT
TANZANIA TOURIST CORPORATICN AND SUBSIDIARIES CORPORATE STRUCTURE AND
PRINCIPAL ACTIUTTIWS AT DECEMBER 31, 1977
Date Formed or
CorporatinOwnershipAcquired by TTC                           Activities
PARENT CTMPANY
Tanzania Tourist Corporation (TTC)       Tanzania Gov't.  100.0%        1969          1) Holding company providing headquarters support,
financial and marketing services for its sub-
sidiaries.
2) Moshi Hotel
SUBSIDIARIES
Hotel Companies:
Kilimanjaro Hotels Ltd. -/               TTC                100.0%      1969          Kilimanjaro Hotel
Coastal Hotels Ltd.                      TTC                100.0%      1970          New Africa Hotel
Kunduchi Beach Hotel
Mafia Island Lodge
Mikumi Wildlife Lodge
seafaris activities
Serengeti Safaris Lodge Ltd. (SSLL)       TTC               100.0%      1969          Lake Manyara Hotel
Ngorongoro Wildlife Lodge
Seronera Wildlife Lodge
Lobo Wildlife Lodge
New Safari Hotel Ltd. -/                 TTC                 74.5%      1970          New Safari Hotel
Grand Hotels Ltd. 25.5%
Mwanza Hotels Ltd. 2/                     TTC                50.0%      1973          New Mwanza Hotel
Grand Hotels Ltd. 50 ,0%
Mt. Meru Hotels Ltd.                      TTC                80.0%      1973          Mt. Meru Hotel
Other              20.0%
Non-Hotel Companies:
State Travel Services Ltd. (STS)          TTC               100.0%      1970         Travel agency and tour operator providing
services to Government, parastatals and
the public.
Tanzania Duty Free Shops Ltd.            TTC                100.0%      1970          Operates duty-free shopping at airports.
Tanzania Hotels Investments Ltd.         TTC                100.0%      1969          Shell company without operations.
ASSOCIATE CCMPANIES (less than 50% TTC ownership)
Bahari Beach Hotel                       TTC                 39.5%    1969           Bahari Beach Hotel
TDFL                42.5%
Other               18.0%
Furaha Ya Visiwani Hotels Ltd.           TTC                 49.0%    1969           Afrika House
Zanzibar                                    Zanzibar Hotel
Government         51.0%                   Starehe Club
1/ TTC has requested Government approval to merge Kilimanjaro Hotels Ltd. into TTC.   It is assumed this merger takes effect
in 1978.
2/ TTC intends to approach Grand Hotels Ltd. to buy out their shares in New Safari and Mwanza Hotels Ltd.; Grand Hotels does not
play an active ownership or management role in these companies.



TANZANIA: TCURISM REHABILITATION PRCJECT
TANZANIA TCUPIST CORP(RATION (UNCCNSOLIDATED) AUDITED INCUME STATEMENTS 1970-1Q76
(TSh '000)
Income                                          1970     1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
Interest                                        -       443      398      145       45      -       757
Management & Marketing Fees                     -        -       -        -        -     1,602   5,658
Subventions                                  3,000   2,380   2,470   1,900   2,050   1,258          167
Other                                          411      221       48      717      330     153      857
Total Income                                    3,411   3,044   2,916   2,762   2,425   3,013   7,439
Operating Overhead                             1,900   1,566   1,615   2,049   2,456   4,018   6,018
House Profit                                    1,511   1,478   1,301       713    ( 31) (1,005)  1,421
Interest expense                                  292     807      764      -         16      -     1,170
Depreciation                                       26       81       91     107      107      120      206
Provision for losses on investments               100      500     450      625   3,700       462   1.950
Net Profit (Loss)                               1,093       90      ( 4)    (19) (3,854) (1,587) (1,905)-'
1/ Excludes prior year adjustments made in 1977 of 35,922 in provisions for losses or investments and 864 in
interest payable.
(D|



TANZANIA: TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
TANZANIA TCURIST CORPORATICN (UNCCNSOLIDATED) AUDITED BALANCE SHEETS 1970-1976
(TSh '000)
1970     1971     1972     1973      1974     1975     1976
Current Assets                               6,890    8,921    3,579    2,867    1,308    2,136    4,927
Fixed Assets - Net                             405      767      856       890      855      763    1,902
Investments in Subsidiary and
Associated Companies                      65,712   87,938   95,199   97,208   97,301  114,450   92,797
Inter-company loans                         16,903   21,605   21,074   23,170   21,468   20,222   13,323
Total Assets                                89,910  119,231  120,708  124,135  120,932  137,571  1127949
u,
Current Liabilities                          1,558    3,840    1,689    2,223    1,502    4,065    8,887
Long-term Loans                             33,574   40,087   41,054   41,906   40,608   38,560   27,470
Total Liabilities                           35,132   43,927   42,743   44,129   42,110   42,625   36,357
Equity                                      54,778   75,304   77,965   80,006   78,822   94,946   76,592
Total Liabilities and Equity                89,910  119,231  120,708  124,135  120,932  137,571  112,949
X U



TANZANIA; TCURISM REHABILITATICN PROJECT
SERENGETI SAFARI LCDGES SCURCES AND USES OF FUNDS PROJECTICNS
WITH TSH 19.5 MILLICN CAPITAL INFUSICN FCR REPAYING NATICNAL BANK OF COMMERCE LOAN
(Current TSh '000)
1978      1979        1980       1981       1982       1983
Beginning Working Capital                         (23?850)  (120390)  (181040)  (21?220)  (22,190)  (18,260)
Sources of Funds
New Capital                                      20,920      4,870      7,590      9,320      1,210       -
Net Income                                       (7,860)   (4,580)   (2,860)   (1,330)    1,420          4,290
Depreciation and
amortization                                   2,060      2,170      2,700      3,460      3,690      3 830
Total sources                                   15,120      2,460      7,430    11,450       6,320      8,120              $
Uses of Funds
Capital expenditures                             1,360      5,810      8,310    10,120       2,090         960
Reduction in long term debt                      2,300      2,300      2,300      2,300         300        300
Total uses                                       3,660      8,110    10,610    12,420        2,390      1,260
Net change in Working Capital                      11,460     (5,650)   (3,180)      ( 970)    3,930       6,860
Ending Working Capital Balance                    (12,390)  (18,040)  (21,220)   (22,190) (18,260)  (11,400)
Ending Equity                                     11,040    11,330    16,060        24,040   26,670    30,960
Assumptions;  1)  All project improvements are paid for as capital contributions by TTC.
2)  All loans are brought current in 1978 and paid as due thereafter.



TANZANIA: TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
TANZANIA TCURIST OCRPORATICN AND SUBSIDIARIES CCNSOLIDATED FINANCIAL RATIOS 1977-83
1977     1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983
Operational Indicators
Sales/Total Assets                                .4        5        .6        .7       ,7        .8        .9
House Profit/Total Sales                         5.2      7.7       9.2      17.0     20.4      24.2      26.1
Profit before Tax/Total Sales                  (10.8)   (10.0)    (5.4)      5,4       8,4      13,6      14,0
Net Profit/Total Sales                         (13.2)   (10.1)   ( 5.6)       3.5      6.6       9.2       6.5
Profitability Indicators
Net income/year-end equity                    (15.4)   ( 9.5)   ( 6.4)       5.1       9.9      14.1     10.6
Net income/year-end total assets               ( 5.9)   ( 5.2)   ( 3.1)      2.4       4.8       7.5      5.9
Profit before Tax/year-end Total Assets        (4.8)   (5,1)   (3.0)         3.7       6.1      11.1     12,7
Financial structure Indicators
Current ratio                                     .6      1.2       1.1       .9       1.1       1.7      1.8
Long-term debt/equity                           1.0        .5        .7        .7       .7        .6        .5
Debt-service coverage                           2.2x       .2x  1/ l.Ox      2.3x      3.Ox      4,8x      4,2x
Net working capital (Tsh thousands)          (29,770)  7,040       3,500   (6,700)  7,030   38,950    63,110
1/ Includes total debt service requirement to bring all loans and accrued interest expense current.
I- tT
(DXt



TANZANIA: TOURISM REHABILIRATION PROJECT
1/
RATIO OF OPERATING COSTS TO TOTAL SALES OF HOTELS
Kilimanjaro New Africa Kunduchi Mafia Mikumi Manyara Ngorongoro Seronera Lobo N. Mwanza N.Safari yoshi
1979       32            37          44       45      44        41          45         45       53         43         43      46
1980      31             36          43       44      44        40          43         43       51         41        42       45
1981      31             35          42       41      43        39          42         41       49         40         40      44
1982      30             35          41        39     41        37          41         40       46         39         39      43
1983 -    30             33          39       37      40        37          40         39       45         38         38      42
2000
1/  Excluding all taxes.



C- 00
000000000000000000000         >000000                        '0 00
0    0000
0 00  OOoOO 0000    0  0 00 0-0000ooo 0.0000000-00     0
-    000
0  o-  000000000000000-0000          00-
0000000000000000000           000 0000000000000-000-000
000
-J--40]OO 00000-oOoOo-.---  lo  0 0 OOOOo>oOOoOooOoo 000
000 000-]]000t00 000000  0    0- 0 0000000-000-OOoOOOOoo       00
0000 ooooo 00       00 000000000000000000000
00000-00000-000000000    0                                       0
0                                 00
0                                oo0]
00                             V
0  0-                           00-00     0
0000000000000000000           0 0 00000000 00000000000        0000
00000000000000000             0 0 0000000000000 ooo0oo0 0      oo     0 0
oo0o00-400000000000 00       o                               ho 00
g
0000000000000000000-     0        >00000000000-000000-                 0]
CO    o   00000000000000000             000
0000000-0000000000-00]        0  o0-0000000oO0000000000                 0
00-00000000000      0         0                                         0]
0                                 0       a
0-0.-]   0
0                                0
0000000000000000            0
0   000000000-0000000 000        0
000000000000-0000000          0   0000000-0000000-0000000
0000000000000 0000000             000000000000000000>0-0  1-0
000000000000000-000]>             oaa0000000000000000- 0   0
000000000000000          00
0000000000 00000o000-00            & 0    0 00000000-00
00 00 0- 0- 0 0- 0- 0-0 0-00- 0000 0-
00000000-0-000000000000           000000>000000000-40000
000000000000000000000             00 00 0 0 0 0> 00 0 00 00 00 0-00
0000000                       0
0o00000oo                                          00-
000000000000000000000
00         000               00   00   00    000
00   00   00   0000
00   00   00   0000                                            0
00] I 00] 00] 0000 00] 00] 000] ] 000
00   00   00   0000               00   00   00   0 00
I 00
0000-0-0-0-0-0000-00-0-0-00-000   ooooooooooooooooooooo       F 00
00000000-0-0-0-000-0-0-0000-0     0000000000000000000          '
00 00 0000 000 0000 000000
0o000-0-0-00-00-00-00-O0 0      0000000000000000000
000        ,0-0-->AV            000 000000 0000000'0        00
00-000                            00000
000-000000000000000               000          00  oooooo      00
00000000000       000             000000000000         0-
LI fll'1
100040                             49-



KUN90CHI BEACH   I10  rooms    200 beds
Proj sotsd bed           Retained bednightt        Foeign gost(8/        Totmi net incren           oa benguett10/       Toedl netiincrcv         Revenue fron        reno  mrest        irnescmeet          &o           er btenei
orrupsecy (7.2    ~~duet   ro  c            bednghes (807.)        reeu"I     e              edih    (20Q.         eoletu                   oeinrartev                              oens
toreign gooest                                 local Averts            5-7 in 0981
with     oiehooe          _____________________    _________________      (Inniudieg  ccci         _____________________   _________ _            57.   in    i982    _____________      ____________1_
1979          50       50                      0                       0                       0                                                                     0                   0                 4588           4g4           -5082
1980         50        50                      0                       0                       0                                                                     0                                    2927           494           -3421
1982         50        49                    730                     564                     124                                                                   129                 253                 t336           494           -1577
1982          55       48                   5110                    4088                     899                                                                   294                1193                  226           494            -473
1983          80       48                  10220                    8176                    1864                                                                   282               2146                    -            494            1652
1984         65        44                  15330                   12264                    2396                                                                   270                3068                   -            494            2572
1995          78       42                  78440                   1838                     3 728                                                                  257                3985-4439
1986          70       40                 21900                    17520                    3995                                                                   245               4240                   431           494            3315
1987          70       39                  22630                   18104                    4128                                                                   239                4467                  431           494            3542
1988          70        38                 23368                   18898e                   4282                                                                   233                4494                    -           494            4000
1989          70       37                 24090                    19272                    4394                                                                   226               4620                    -            494            4126
1990          70        36                 24820                   19856                    4527                                                                   220                4787                   -            494            4293
1991          70       35                  25353                   20446                    0880                                                                   214                4874                 3662           494             718
1992          70       34                  2852880                 21D4256                  4892                                                                   208               3188                  3882           494             944
1993          70       33                  27010                   21608                    4927                                                                   282                5129                    -           494            4635
1994          70       32                  27740                   22192                    5060                                                                   196                5256                    -           494            4762
1995          70       31                  28470                   22776                    5193                                                                   190                5383                    -           494            4489
1998          70       30                  29200                   23360                    5326                                                                   184                5510                  431           494            4585
1997          70        30                 29200                   23360                    5326                                                                   184                5510                  431           494            4585
1998-2080    70        30                  29200                    238                     3328                                                                   184                5510                  431           494            5018
2001          70       30                  28200                   23360                    5326                                                                   184                5510                  431           494            5891
1AFIA ISA1281     30 roors    60 bsds
9gm.)
1979          20       20                      0                                                0                                                                                                           3289         372            -3281
1988          25       20                   1095                     986                      234                                                                      0               234                   2679         372            -2817
198l          30       28                   2190                    1921                     503                                                                      35               538                   1590         372            -1424
1  0   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 440                                                                                                372               22
1982          35       20                   3285                    2957                      01                                                                      93               884                    493                           2
1983          40       20                   4380                     3942                   1068                                                                      83              1151                     -           372             779
1984          45       20                   5475                    4928                    1335                                                                      83              1418                     -           372            1048
1985          50       20                   6570                    5913                    1602                                                                      83              1685                     -           372            1313
1986          55       20                   7665                    68899                   1870                                                                      83              19523                   157          377            1424
1987          60       20                   8760                    7884                    2137                                                                      83              2220                    157          372            1891
1988          60       20                   8760                    7884                    2137                                                                      83              2220                     -           372            1848
1989         68        20                   8760                    7884                    2137                                                                      83              2220                   2             372            1048
1990          60       20                   8760                    7884                    2137                                                                      83              2220                     -           372            1848
1991          60       20                   8760                    7884                    2137                                                                      83              2220                   26738
1992          60       20                   8760                     7884                   2132                                                                      83              2220                     -             2            1848
1993          60       20                   8768                    7884                    2137                                                                      83              22                      7            372           i42
1994         60        20                   8760                    7884                    2137                                                                      83              2220                                 377            1848
1995          60       20                   8760                    7884                    2137                                                                      83              2220                     -           377            1848
1990          00       20                   8700                    784                     21 37                                                                     83              2220                    157          372            1424
1999          60       20                   8760                    7884                    2137                                                                      83              2220                     -           372            1848
2000          80       20                   8780                    7884                    21 37                                                                     83              2220                     -37                        lao
2001          60       20                   8760                     7884                   2137                                                                      a3              2220                  (2667)         372            4515
808Urf8   48 roo.s    96 beds
(25X3                                             150%)1                               Per,         Leec
1979         32         32                      0                        0                       0                         80                                   0          0              0                  2691           126           -2817
1980          33        32                    350                       88                      16                      175                   18                0          0             34                  2350           126            -2442
1981          34        31                   1051                      263                      52                       526                  58                8          11           129                  1397           126            -1394
1982          37        30                   2107                      526                    109                      1051                  125                28        37            299                   275           126            _102
1983          40        29                   3854                      964                    203                      1927                  233                27         36          499                      _           126              373
1984         43         28                   5256                     1314                     277                     2628                  31a                26         35          656                      -           126              530
1985         46         27                   6658                    1665                      351                     2329                  403                25        33            812                   236           120              450
1986          50        26                   8418                     2103                     444                     4205                  509                24         32          1009                    236           126             647
1987          54        25                  10162                     2541                    536                      5081                  615                23        31           1205                     -           126             1079
1988          58        25                  11563                     2891                    610                       5782                 700                23.        30          1363                     _           126             1237
1989         63         25                  13315                     3329                     702                     6658                  806                23         30          1561                     _            126            1435
1990         68         25                  15067                     3767                     795                     7534                  912                23         30          1780                     -            126            1634
1991          70        25                  15768                     3942                     832                      7884                 954                23         30          1839                   1534           126             179
1992          70        25                  15768                     3942                     832                      7884                 954                23         30          1839                   1534           126             179
1993          70        25                  15768                     3942                     832                      7884                 954                23         30          1839                     -            126            1713
1994          70        25                  15768                     3942                     832                      7884                 354                23          0          1                                     1              1713
1995          70        25                  1578                      3942                     832                      7884                  54                23         30           18                                   126            1713
1996          70        25                  15768                     3942                     832                      7884                 954                23         38          1839                    238           028            1473
1997          70        25                  15768                     3942                     832                      7884                 954                23         30          1839                    236           126            1477
1998          70        25                  15768                     3942                     832                      7884                 954                23         30          1839                     -            126            1713
1999          70        2;                  15788                     3942                     832                      7884                 954                23         30          1839                     _            126            1713
2000          70        25                  15768                     3942                     832                      7884                 954                23         30          1839                     -            126            1713
2001          70         25                 15768                     3942                     832                      7884                  954               23         30          1839                     -            126            3694



-65-
a'oNoaaa'a'a',-a.   a'O0~~                     T.bl. 17
no mnit~~~~5it.;,2.Ss,sN5a'NaaoO.o. ooooNg;n555R55!5i                                                                                                                                      2a2ie ..... 5n;E-oo  ..  Pal    3
--  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0N~~~~~~~P9 
_ O _ a N ~ ~ e                                           W                       e W  |  z  |  8  *  ...................                               - -  - - - - -, dd - - -         -
e ~ ~ ~     0'a0 ~ 0 ~ * 4~ |N                                                        2  -- - 22SS S 5 S                               Oo0N a g R a aa g     a'o 0 00 0 00 0
31
;~ ~        ~                                                               ON _.0                                  NN                                    
N 0000 O                                    0oM2222s2g2s22                                                     N
N                   NON N NN N NNNN 0o=s o o oo o o o o o                        0     0     ooeR >R Ro       0RooaRo                           QOONNo   0000000O ONoOoo..
~~~~~~~~~~~N-N                                                           N N NN           N N O                                   0000   OONO=ooo      dd OONNNNNoOgg XmeNN88 
h S  2 R- nno N   NIO  FONN N NN N                        N                     NO   0000  Na a' 00a'000a                              -     _     G N NON NON-a   N N ON N N N N 00N
oN                  *..--X2bONNNNNNNNNNNNv5ONN                                         N.ON-SRR RO0Oo......oOtecs VCC'^C Cso.2
vost0thO=O0_m0oC>vv00                            OoOOONa'aa'a''a''a'oOOOOOi>>oa                                     =2CX~C=



LOBO    75 nero.      150 bedo
ProJeered bed          Retained bedolghon        Foreign gontet         Total netce iLtem    tonal guest           Total onec incree      Revenue Eros           moda  I ine.      Inu entnnen     0 t         Net ocnnf 
occupancy 11)          doe to pro nc-            bedni.hga (911)       rebenue Icon          ledolglte (9%)        revenue (non           rate inncrase         renenuc            noe             nont
forelgn gocata                             local go-ata           51 in 1901
slith      eithout                                                     (Including can)                                                    52 i1 1982             _
Foer       Leo.
1979            14           14                9                          0                        0                                                       O                          0                3018           i1l        -31t8
1980            20           20                 0                         0                                                                                0                          0                2068           110         2878
1981            24           24                 0                         0                                                                             126                        126                 923           110          -987
1982            29           24             2738                       2492                      593                                                     215                        806                 ISO           110          548
1983           34            24             5475                       4982                    1211                                                      215                       1426                               110         1316
1984            41           24             9308                       8470                     208                                                      215                       2273                               110          2163
1985            47           24            12593                      11460                     2783                                                     215                       3000                               11-          2890
1986            54           24            16425                      14947                     3632                                                     215                       3847                 314           110          3423
1987           62            24            20805                      18933                    4601                                                      215                       4816                 314           110          4392
1988           65            24            22448                      20428                    4964                                                      215                       5179                               110          5069
1989            65           24            22448                      20428                    4984                                                      215                       5179                  -            110          5069
1990           65            24            22448                      20428                     4964                                                     215                       5179                               110          5069
1991            65           24            22448                      20428                    4964                                                      713                       3179                1838           110          3231
1993            65           24            22448                      20428                     4964                                                     215                       5179                1838           110          3231
1993           65            24            22448                      20428                    4964                                                      215                       5179                  -            110          5069
1994           65            24            22448                      20428                     4964                                                     215                       5179                               110          5D69
1995           65            24            22448                      20428                     4984                                                     215                       5179                               110          5069
1996           65            24            22448                      20428                     4984                                                     215                       9179                 314           110          4755
1997           65            24            22448                      20428                    4984                                                      215                       5139                 314           itO          4755
1998          68             24            22448                      20428                    4964                                                      215                       5179                   .           110          5069
1999           65            24            22448                      20428                     4964                                                     215                       5179                               o10          3069
202o           65            24            22448                      20428                    4764                                                      215                       5179                               110          5069
2001           65            24            22448                      20428                     4964                                                     215                       5179                               II0          6363
8T31 WAR2NA     57 rao.       112 bdeA
(591 )                                        (412)
1979           49            48                0                           0                         0                                   0                 0          0               0                   2322        245         -2567
1980            52           49             1226                         723                       131                 503              54                 8          8             285                   1462         262        -1339
1981            35          .48             2862                        1689                       319                1173             133                 86        40             578                    718         289         -439
1982            58           47             4497                        2653                       520                1844             212                153        70             835                    236        336           489
1983            62           46             6541                        3859                       788                2682              319               110        69            1306                     -          374          932
1984           65            43             8176                        4821                       959                3352             399               146         67            1571                                374         2297
1985            69           44            10220                        6083                      1200                4190             499                143        66            1S08                                374         1554
1986            70           43            11038                        6512                      129L                4576             539                140        65            2040                    275         374         1391
1987            70           42            11446                        6753                      1344                4693             558                137        63            2102                    275         374         1453
1988            70           41            11855                        6994                      1392                4861             578                133        61            2164                     -          374         1790
1989            70           40            12264                        7236                      1440                5028             598                130        60            2228                                374         1854
1998            70           39            12673                        7477                      1488                5196             618                127        58            2291                     -74                    1917
1991            70           38            13082                        7718                      1536                5364             638                124        37            2355                   1946         374            35
1992           70            37            13490                        7959                      1584                5531             658               120         55            2417                   1946         374           97
1993            70           36            13899                        8200                      1632                5699             678                117        54            2481                                374         2107
1994            70           35            14388                        8442                      1680                5866             698                114        52            2544                                374         2178
1995            70           34            14717                        8683                      1728                6034             718                110         51            2607                    -          374         2233
1996            70           33            15126                        8924                      1776                6202             738                107         SO            2671                   275         324         2022
1997           70            33            15126                        8924                      1776                6202             738                107        50            2671                    275         374         2022
1998           70            33            15126                        8924                      1776                6202              738               107         SO            2671                   275         374          2297
1999           70            33            15126                        8924                      1776                6202             738                107        50             2671                               374         2797
2000           70            33            15126                        8924                      1776                6202              738               107         SO            2671                    -          374          2297
2001           70            33            15126                        8924                      1776                6202              738               107         50            2671                    -          374         2612
N0v SAFARI      60 reoa.      113 beda
(59%)                                         (41%)
1I7l           30             5 0                                           0                         0                   8               8                  0         0               0                 2981          394         -3375
1980           32             32                0                           0                                            0                                 0          0                                2510          394          -2904
1981           40             31             3712                        2190                       480                1522             177                 38        18             713                 1216          394          -897
1982           45             30             6187                        3650                       829                2537             307                127        59            1322                  705          394            723
1983           50             30             8249                        4867                      1124                3382             416                127         59            1726                               08           1218
1964          5S              30            10311                        6083                      1405                4228             520                127         59            2111                                O SR        1603
1985           60             30            12374                        7301                      1687                5073             624                120        59             2497                  -           508           1949
1986           65             30            14436                        6517                      1867                5916             728                127        59             2881                 157          500           2210
1987           65             30            14436                       8917                       19I7 3916                             728               127         59           2661                  157           500          2216
2900           65             30            14436                        8517                      1967                5916             720                127        39             2881                  -           308           2373
1989           65             30            14436                        8517                      1967                5926             728                227         59           2661                   -SO                       2373
1990           65             30            14436                        417                       1967                5916             726                127         59            2881                               so           2373
1901           65             38            14426                        8517                      1967                5916             728                127        39             21                   189           50            184
1992           65             38            14436                        0517                      1967                3916             726                127         59           2001                 2189          308            184
1993           45             30            14436                        6117                      1967                5916             728                127         59            2881                   -           50g          2373
1384           65             30            14436                        8517                      1967                5916             728                127         59           2081                   -           S0a           2373
1995           65             3a 14436                                   8317                      1967                5918             728                127         59            2881                               508          2373
1996           65             20            14436                        8517                      1967                5916             728                127         59            2861                 127           508          2216
1997           65             30            14436                        6517                      1967                5916             728                127         59            2081                 157           508          2216
1998           65             30            14436                        8327                      1967                5916              728               127         59            2841                               500          2373
1999           65             30            14436                        8517                      1967                5916             728                127         59            2881                   -           508          2373
2080           65             '0            14436                        8517                      1967                5916             728                127         59            2881                               508          2373
2001           65             n8            14436                        8517                      1967                5916             728                127         59            2001                   -           508          9683
w b 72
1999  6  10  4.436  8 17               1 67                 5916              21                2          59            2881                               50B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X al
2000  5  10  14456  8' 17              1967                  916             728                127        59            288I                                            23 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P .1



MOSR0l     67 coons    108 bode
Projected bed         Retained bedeights       Foreign guents        Total net ifncre      Loc-l goent           Total not inoro         Re-eone fron           Totol inoree       Inve-tment      R & M        Nlt benefit
occ-paecy (Vi)        doe to proJect          bednights (22%)         -enoe fion           bndcightn (78%)       macnun fion             onto increase          coronue            coot            roan         stream
foreign g..st.                             locnl gonnun
nith     withont                                                     (including ten)                                                     57 in 1981       -
5% io 1982
For,.    Lo.
1979              28        28                  0                        0                      0                    0                     0               0        0                 0                 2124         266            -2390
1980              29        29                  0                        0                      0                    0                     0               0        0                 0                 1950         266            -2216
1981              31        30                 394                      87                     18                  307                     36              15      37               106                 1124         305            -1323
1982              33        29               1577                      347                     75                 1230                   149              38       89               351                   215        327             -191
1983              35        28               2759                      607                    133                 2152                   267              37       86               523                    -         380              143
1984              37        27               3942                      867                    190                 3075                   381               35      83               689                    -         380              309
1985              39        26               5125                     1128                    247                 3998                   496               34      80               857                              380              477
1986             42         25               6701                     1474                    323                 5227                   648               33      77              1081                   236        380              465
1987             44         25               7490                     1648                    361                 5842                   724               33      77              1195                   236        380              579
1988             47         25               8672                     1908                   418                  6764                   839               33      77              1367                    -         380              987
1989              50        25               9855                     2168                   475                  7687                   953               33      77              1538                    -         380             1158
1990              53        25              11038                     2428                   532                  8610                  1068               33      77              1710                    -         380             1130
1991              56        25              12220                     2688                   589                  9532                  1182               33      77              1881                 1657         380             -156
1992              59        25              13403                     2949                   646                 10454                  1296               33      76              2051                 1657         380               14
1993             63         25              14980                     3296                   722                 11684                  1449               33      76              2280                    -         380             1900
1994              66        25              16162                     3556                   779                 12606                  1563               33      76              2451                    -         380             2071
1995              70        25              17739                     3903                   855                 13836                  1716               33      76              2680                    -         380             2300
1996             70         25              17739                     3903                   855                 13836                  1716               33      76              2680                   236        380             2064
1997              70        25              17739                     3903                   855                 13836                  1716               33      76              2680                   236        380             2064
1998             70         25              17739                     3903                   855                 13836                  1716               33      76              2680                    -         380             2300
1999             70         25              17739                     3903                   855                 13836                  1716               33      76              2680                    -         380             2300      %
2000             70         25              17739                     3903                   855                 13836                  1716               33      76              2680                    -         380             2300
2001             70         25              17739                     3903                   855                 13836                  1716               33      76              2680                    -         380             1908
IT. 1RER
Prejeared bed         Retained bednighte           Foreign Guests          Net Incraaental
ecnupeney (7.)        due to projeat                   (907.)                  Revenue
with     without
16        16                  0                        0                         0
21        21                  0                        0                         0
25        25                  0                        0                         0
32        25               9811                     8330                      2591
39        25              19622                    17660                      5492
48        25              32237                    29013                      9023
54        25              40646                    36581                     11377
62        25              51859                    46673                     14515
70        25              63072                    56765                     17654
70        25              63072                    56765                     17654
70        25              63072                    56765                     17654
70        25              63072                    56765                     17654
70        25              63072                    56765                     17654
70        25              63072                    56765                     17654
70        25              63072                    56765                     17654                                                                                                                                         'a a
70        25              63072                    56765                     17654                                                                                                                                         o s
70        25              63072                    56765                     17654                                                                                                                                         e
70        25              63072                    56765                     17654



ANNEX II
-68-
TANZANIA: TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
HOTEL AND TOURISM TRAINING INSTITUTE
Existing System
1.        In the early years of tourism development most hotel training in
Tanzania was on-the-job. In 1969, a hotel school was created by Hallmark
Hotels to train nonsupervisory staff for its hotels. When TTC took over
management from Hallmark in 1972, it inherited the hotel school and moved
it to its present site in the Forodhani Hotel. TTC operatel1the school
until 1977 with substantial bilateral aid from Netherlands.-   In July 1977,
the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism took over the hotel school
and is now responsible for all tourism and hotel training. The school has
a capacity of 65 students and, since its inception, has trained over 2,000
students in three-month refresher and upgrading courses. Although in the
past there have been vacancies at the school, recent courses have been
fully subscribed.  All 2tudents are sponsored by employers who pay the
full cost of training.-   The school has a staff of 10, one of whom is
currently in Nairobi on a training program at Utalii College.
2.        Although the school has served a useful purpose, it has several
limitations. With the exception of the kitchen, the facilities are poorly
equipped and inadequate for training purposes.  There are no language lab-
oratories or demonstration rooms and library and classrooms have only
rudimentary equipment. Courses are attended by trainees with widely
differing skills and experience in the same class, which frustrates attempts
to give sound training. Given the present quality of courses, hotel owners
have been reluctant to pay the required fees.
3.        Other nonsupervisory hotel training programs are offered on a
limited basis by the YMCA in its centers in Moshi and Dar es Salaam. These
porgrams have no more than 16 trainees and are designed to train staff for
YMCA hostels. In addition, the hotel management subsidiary of the Tanganyika
Development Finance Company is considering establishing a private training
porgram for its own staff. At the management level, DANIDA, in cooperation
with the Scandinavian Hotel Management Corporation (SHMC), has proposed an
exchange program with TTC, whereby the Tanzanian management staff would
be sent abroad for a period of two years for further training and SHMC would
provide Danish replacements during its absence.
1/ This aid included training for 20 Tanzanians who were sent abroad to
study hotel management as well as a team of Dutch hotel and tourism
experts who taught in the school.
2/ A three-month course costs TSh 5,400 for resident students, TSh 3,600
for live-out students.



ANNEX II
-69-
4.        There are currently about 150 management level staff in the
hotel sector in Tanzania, and their number is not likely to exceed 200
in the foreseeable future. The numbers do not justify a hotel management
school, and the Government has rightly relied on in-service training in
hotels and attendance at recognized hotel schools abroad to train its
management personnel. Much of thi'has been financed by bilateral and
multilateral technical assistance.-
Proposed System
Background
5.        The system proposed, the Hotel and Tourism Training Institute,
is designed to reproduce as closely as possible the working environment
found in hotels and other tourism related facilities. The Institute,
composed of conventional hotel educational facilities (hotel school) plus
practice facilities operated commercially (hotel and restaurant), would be
operated year-round and have a maximum capacity of 134 full-time students.
Trainees would receive theoretical training in the Institute section and
practical experience in the hotel, including experience of the vagaries of
the hotel industry such as working on Sundays and holidays, split shifts,
and marked seasonality. Classes will be split into two sections,
operating on a weekly basis. One section will be on duty in the respective
hotel areas for seven days, the other one attending classes for five days
and two days off; the instructor will move with his section from the hotel
to the classroom and vice versa. Eighty trainees would live at the
training center; the balance would be Dar es Salaam residents. The HTTI
would function autonomously within prescribed budgetary limits and
the involvement of hotel keepers and those in the industry would be
encouraged through, for example, representation on the Board of Directors,
participation in the selection and recruitment of trainees, and even
through teaching in the Institute.
6.        The training system would prepare trainees to work in one type
of job. Courses would be staggered to permit efficient use of facilities
(Charts 1-3). Selection of trainees would be made by the staff of the
center assisted by representatives of MNR&T and hotel managements. Entry
level (Appendix 1) would vary from a completed fourth year of secondary
education for chambermaids to completed secondary education for reception
and front office students. The length of study would vary depending on the
course. Full-time courses would last up to one year of study. Refresher
courses would last four weeks and trainees would be released from work
at their employer's expense to attend these courses. At the end of their
course of study (except in the case of refresher trainees), trainees would
be assisted by the training center to find employment.
1/ For the upcoming academic year, the Ministry of Manpower Development
has offers of places and/or scholarships for about 70 students,
at management as well as technical levels.



ANNEX II
-70-
Output
7.        The proposed program is justified in terms of providintg
better qualified hotel and tourism staff. The capacity of the school
will be 134 full-time trainees plus refresher courses which would
increase output to about 200 trainees per year. Of the 134 fEl--time
trainees, between 40 and 50 would be recruited directly from sc-iool and
the balance from industry. The program therefore offers the flexibility
to train new employees and retrain those already working; this is of
high priority in Tanzania. As shown in Table 1 of this Annex,
about 70% of new hotel employees requiring training could be trained
in the school and somewhat less than half of non-hotel staff in the
tourism sector. There is expected to be no difficulty ir, rec7uiting
trainees from school (Table 1) as the numbers required are small in
relation to the output of the secondary school system.
Location
8.        The Institute will be located in Dar es Salaam whers, most
likely, applicants reside and where the flow of visitors is less seasonal
and comprises foreign and domestic, business and pleasure toU-r4sts. This
should ensure a high and stable level of visitors at the practice hotel.
For the Institute's site, MNR&T is evaluating five different plots.
One of the sites is on Ohio Street, one on Upanga Road, one cn WiMorogoro
Road, one at the junction of Mfaume Road and Olympia Street and one on the
present site (the Lehmann Building) of the Division of Tourism. The
mission visited the sites and considered the Upanga Road and Ohio Street
sites acceptable.
Curriculum
9.        The Institute would function year-round and courses would include
a common induction course, language training, technical training in1yhe
school and actual service in the practice hotel. Full time courses- will
be offered in the five main hotel specialties (front office, restaurant,
kitchen, housekeeping and maintenance) and tourism specialties (tour
guides and information of cers). The courses are to be offered at basic,
medium and higher levels.- Refresher courses ususally of four weeks'
duration will be designed to broaden technical knowledge, to encourage
better on-the-job performance and to enhance the opportunity for accelerated
promotion. Such courses will be offered from time to time ir all the
hotel and touristic specialties according to needs.
1/ For the time being, the Ministry will coordinate the training of
management personnel abroad in recognized hotel and tourism institutes
as well as practical periods working in hotels, restaurants or other
tourist establishments. To facilitate this training, a program of
scholarships and bilateral and multilateral assistance is to be
developed in cooperation with the Department of Training and Manpower
Allocation of the Ministry of Manpower Development, the Treasury and
the Advisory Committee on Higher Education and Training, when
necessary.
2/ See Chart 4, which shows training level/job relationships.



ANNEX II
-71-
Technical Assistance
10.       The technical assistance component of the project would provide
funds for expatriate teachers, scholarships for training local teachers
and a senior technical advisor on hotel training. A schedule of technical
assistance is shown in Chart 5, and suggested profiles for the experts
in Appendix 2. Six experts in hotel training and tourism, one of whom
would be designated as head of courses, would be recruited. The functions
of these experts would be to prepare syllabi and teach at the Institute for
its first two years of operation. The experts should arrive in Tanzania
three to six months before the Institute opens for periods up to 30 months.
Appointment of the head teacher should be made by end-1979. The other
technical assistance appointments should be made consistent with the
schedule of technical assistance.
Teacher Training
11.       Eleven Tanzanians would be trained overseas with funds provided
by the project to take Syer from the technical assistance team as a core
of technical expertise.- After teacher training, the Tanzanians would
work for at least a year with the technical assistance experts to ensure
effective continuation of the teaching program. Candidates for these
positions should be chosen from (a) middle management staff working in
hotels; (b) university graduates; and (c) secondary school leavers.
Candidates from the first two categories should be sent abroad for a one-
year program of teacher training; any from the third category should be
sent for three years of technical and teacher training. To ensure that
teacher training is completed in time, the first candidates should take
up their studies as soon as possible.
Project Implementation
12.       MNR&T's Division of Tourism is at present inadequately staffed
to supervise operation of the Institute. Funds have been included in the
project to provide a senior technical advisor to strengthen the Division.
The functions of the advisor would be to assist in planning the Institute
and to advise on training policy (eventually to be codified in a training
law), including such matters as validation of diplomas and student and
teacher regulations. The appointment would be for at least three years.
1/ Does not include those who are not specialized in tourism studies
such as language teachers.



ANNEX II
-72-
13.       It is important for the success of the Institute that the private
sector be involved in training. Such involvement could be achieved
through representation of industry associations on the Institute's Board
of Directors. The Board's functions would be to advise the Minister on
training policy and practice, including recruitment and placement of students,
course content and in general terms, on how to adjust output of the Institute
to the needs of the industry. The Board would meet at least twice annually
(preferably at the beginning and end of each academic year) and at any time
the Chairman deems necessary. It is recommended that the Minister appoint
the Board with a minimum of five and a maximum of nine from interested
ministries and organizations. The Director of Tourism will be Chairman of
the Board and may appoint ex officio members.
14.       Organization and staffing for operation of the program of the
Institute are shown in Chart 6.
Professional Services and Procurement
15.       The Ministry of Works is responsible for executing projects for
other ministries and parastatals through its subsidiaries NEDCO (design)
and MECCO (supervision of construction). Final design of the Institute
would be entrusted to consulting architects under the supervision of
NEDCO. Building, furniture and equipment contracts would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding. It is expected that
building contracts and furniture contracts would be awarded to local firms
and that equipment contracts would be won by foreign manufacturers.
Financial Aspects
16.       Under the present system, trainees are sponsored by their employers.
Whereas this method is satisfactory for the short courses currently taught,
it is unlikely to be so for the longer courses proposed since employers
will be less likely to release employees for up to a year and also because
courses will be proportionately more costly. Moreover, if trainees are
required to hold a job before receiving training, school leavers might
well be denied the opportunity for training. MNR&T is aware of these
difficulties and is planning to review its policy on financing the cost of
tourism training. Among other things, it will review ways of utilizing
the employer tax (for expatriates only), and the hotel levy for hotel
training. It will also review yays of creating a fund financed from
revenues of the practice hotel-  to help defray training expenses and review
its student tuition fee policy.
17.       Little data are available for the cost of training hotel students
in Tanzania, and therefore the projections should be considered only as
indicative.  Revenue from the practice hotel, which covers about 90% of gr ys
costs, has been deducted from recurrent costs to give net operating costs.-
1/ Currently, revenues generated by the hotel school revert directly to
the Treasury.



ANNEX II
-73-
Net costs of operating the Institute, when the school reaches its full
operating level in 1984, are estimated at TSh 614,000 (US$76,800) in
1978 prices (Table 2 to this Annex). This represents a recurrent cost
per student-year of TSh 4,584 (US$573). The calculations assume that
the Government absorbs the cost of training students; to the extent that
tuition fees may be retained as a result of the study mentioned above,
operating costs will be reduced.
Accounts and Audit
18.       Separate accounts should be kept for the school, student boarding
and the practice hotel. In the unlikely event that the hotel has operating
losses, budgetary funds would be made available to cover this shortfall.
An accounting system would be installed in the Institute six months before
its expected opening, and annual audited financial statements would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year.



ANNEX II
-74-                                              Ta"le 1
HOTEL AND TOURISM TRAINING INSTITUTE
Manpower Projections 1980-1985
1977   1978   1979   1980        1981       1982       1983       1984       1985
Accommodation
Rooms                                       -       -     -   3,900      4,000      4,100      4,200      4,300      4,400
Additions                                   -       -     -      100        100        100        100        100          -
Total                                  -      -      -   4,000      4,100      4,200      4,300      4,400      4,400
Employment
Total (hotel) La                            -       -     -   5,070      5,200      5,330      5,460      5,590      5,720
New employees (hotel)                       -       -     -      130        130        130        130        130        130
New employees (non-hotel) /b               _       _      _       45         45         45         45         45         45
Total new employees                    -      -      -     175       1175        175        175        175        175
New employees requiring training
Hotel  /c                                   -       -     -       65         65         65         65         65         65
Nonhotel   /d                               -       -             45         45         45         45         45         45
Total                                  -      -      _     110        110        110        110        110        110
Output of institute /e
Hotel:  basic                               -       -     -       52         46         46         46         46         46
middle/supervisory                 -       -      -       -         88         50         88         50         88
Nonhotel:  middle/supervisory               -       -     -       45          -         38          -         38          -
Total                                  -      -      -      97        134        134        134        134        134
Ratios (%)
Hotel: basic/new employees
requiring training                 -       -     -       80         71         71         71         71         71
middle/supervisory employees
requiring training                 -       -     -        -        135          -        135          -        135
Non-hotel                                   -       -     -      100          -         84          -         84          -
Enrollment in secondary school system /f
Form IV                                     -       -     -  10,360    11,143    11,983    12,890    13,860    14,895
Form VI                                     -       -     -   1,946       1,983     2,020      2,058      2,097      2,147
/a  1.3 employees per room.  Mission estimate.
/b  4,500 non-hotel employees in tourism, 10% requiring training.
/c  50% of new employees (40% requiring no training, 10% management - consultants estimates).
/d  4,500 non-hotel staff employed in tourism .  Guestimate of 45% additional staff per year.
/e  Annex   II, Chart 1
/f  East Africa Projects estimates.  Rate of failure is expected to be very low.
Source: Consultants Report
Mission Estimates



HOTEL AND TOURISM TRAINING INSTITUTE
Projected Costs of Operation
(TSh '000 1978 prices)
1979                 1980                  1981                 1982                  1983                  1984
Number of full time students                                         -                     -                 29                  109                   134                   134
Operating costs
Payroll /a
Administration                                    51.8                 154.4                 336.5                349.5                 362.4                 375.4
Hotel                                                 -                    -                 470.8                495.2                 519.6                544.0
Teaching staff                                        -                    -                 495.9                742.4                 771.0                799.5
Subtotal                                    51.8                154.4               1,303.2               1,587.1              1,653.0               1,718.
Equipment and supplies /b                                    _                     _                139.2                 523.2                 643.2                643.2
Student housing  c-                                                                                 142.1                 534.1                656.6                 656.6
Heat, light, power /d                                        -                     -                 43.5                 163.5                 201.0                201.0
Maintenance /S                                               -                 111                  331.0                 331.0                 331.0                331.0
Miscellaneous /f                                                                33                  100.0                 100.0                 100.0                100.0
Subtotal                                    51.8                 298.4              2,059.0               3,238.9              3,584.8               3,650.7
Practice hotel costs
Raw materials /a                                      -                    -                 885.3              1,106.5               1,327.8               1,549.2
Other operating costs /h                              -                    -                 282.2                352.7                 423.2                 493.8
Subtotal                                       -                     -              1,167.5               1,459.2               1,751.0              2,043.0
Total costs                                               51.8                 298.4              3,226.5               4,698.1              5,335.8               5,693.7
Less:  Hotel revenue /i                                      -                     -              2,821.7               3,527.0              4.232.4               4-937-9
Net operating costs (TS 'OOOs)                            51.8                 298.4                404.8               1,171.1               1,103.4                745.8
(US$ 'OOOs)                          6.5                  37.3                 '50.6                146.4                 137.9                  93.2
Cost per student year (TS)                                   -                     -             13,958                10,744                8,234                 5,565
(US$)                                -                     _              1,744                 1,343                 1,029                  696
/a Based on detailed staffing table, costing based on Government schedule of service and consultants' preparation report.
/b TS 4,800 per student year, including office expense, books and other educational supplies. Consultants' estimates.
/c  TS 4,900 per student year, based on TS 20 for food per day and TS 1000 per year for lodging.  Corsultants' estimates.
/d TS 1,500 per student year, excluding practical hotel. Consultants' estimates.
/e Two percent of total capital cost (TS 16.6 million in 1978 prices).
/f Five percent of total costs less payroll.
/& Fifty percent of food, beverage and other revenue.
/h Heat, light, power and housekeeping supplies; 10% of revenue.
/1  Bed occupancy  rate increases from 40a  in the first year to 7n% in the fouirth year of nperation,  Average hed tariff of TS 120: food and heverage
revenue 155% of rooms revenue; other revenue 5% of total revenue
Sources:  Consultants Report                                                                                                                                                               >
Mission estimates



ANNEX II
Appendix I
-76-
HOTEL AND TOURISM TRAINING INSTITUTE
Sources of Candidates and Qualifications Required
Candidates for Basic Level Courses should have the following
qualifications:
( i) successful completion of the induction course;
( ii) minimum age, 15; and
(iii) an educational level of four years secondary
education.
Preference will be given to presentable candidates who possess a sound
knowledge of English.
Candidates for Middle Level Courses should have the following
qualifications:
( i) employment for a minimum of two seasons in the
same department in post corresponding to middle
level course;
( ii) completion of basic course of the Institute; and
(iii) completion of a recognized secondary school and
successful completion of the induction course.
Preference will be given to those who have successfully completed a basic
level course, have shown interest in their work, and have improved their
knowledge of English.
Candidates for Higher Level Courses (Advanced Technical Courses)
should have the following qualifications:
( i) completion of a middle level course and employment
for a minimum of two years at posts corresponding
to middle level courses; and
( ii) fluency in English and adequate knowledge of at
least another important language for Tanzanian
tourist professions.



ANNEX II
Appendix II
-77-
TANZANTIA: HOTEL AND TOURISM TRAINING INSTITUTE
Profiles of Technical Assistance Experts
1        Profiles of the senior technical advisor and technical experts
are given below. One of the technical experts would be selected as head
of courses.
Senior Technical Advisor (MNR&T)
2.        The person appointed must have a wide background in
hotel training as well as in tourism and hotel practice. He should
have sound knowledge and relevant experience in the following
fields:
(a) administration of hotel schools or similar institutions;
(b) teaching methods, including programmed or semi-programmed
teaching; the use of modern audio-visual equipment;
(c) hotel and tourism training policy;
(d) European standards of hotel service;
(e) responsibility for similar projects involving multi-
lateral or bilateral assistance; and
(f) past experience in African countries.
The advisor must be constructive and able to work in harmony with others.
He will be the leader and main organizer of the Tanzanian Hotel and Tourism
Training Institute and must be selected with this in mind. He will work
closely with the Head of Courses and the Principal of the Institute.
Front Office Expert
An expert with a sound background in front office procedures.
He must have a sound knowledge and relevant experience in the following
fields:
(a) the procedures to be followed in organizing and
supervising training courses;
(b) the training methods, including programmed or semi-
programmed teaching;
(c) the organization of a hotel and its different
departments including hotel accounting and hotel
posting machines/cash registers;



ANNEX II
Appendix II
-78-
(d) front office procedures including reservations,
control and operating statistics;
(e)  organizing, conducting and supervising training;
(f) at least two languages most frequently used by
foreign tourists in Tanzania; and
(g) typical manners, customs, tastes and ways of life
of tourists from the main generating countries.
The selected candidate will be expected to acquire a good knowledge
of Tanzania including travel facilities, sightseeing, entertainment and
handicrafts. Past experience in a hotel training institution is
considered essential.
Housekeeping Expert
4.        An expert with a sound background in housekeeping, laundry
and linen room procedures, and relevant experience in the following
fields:
(a) the procedures to be followed in organizing,
conducting and supervising training;
(b) training methods, including the programmed or semi-
programmed teaching;
(c) the organization of a hotel and the different
departments;
(d) housekeeping including guest room and public
space maintenance and upkeep;
(e) laundry work, ironing, and mending of various
fabrics, their composition, and how to handle
them;
(f) first aid, child care and nursing; and
(g) hygiene and safety standards and regulations
relevant to the work of the department and of
the necessary precautions to be taken.
Past experience in hotel training would be an advantage.
Restaurant, Bar, Room-Service Expert
5.        An expert with a sound background in the restaurant, bar and
room-service procedures. The expert must have a sound knowledge and
relevant experience in the following fields:



ANNEX II
Appendix II
-79-
(a) the procedures to be followed in organizing, conducting
and supervising training;
(b) training methods, including the programmed or semi-
programmed teaching;
(c) the organization of hotels and restaurants and the
different departments related to his own department;
(d) typical requirements of guests of different
nationalities;
(e) the different types of restaurant and bar service;
(f) restaurant and bar equipment and supervision of its
use by others;
(g) at least two of the languages most frequently spoken
by foreign tourists in Tanzania; and
(h) hygiene and safety standards and regulations
relevant to the work of his department and the necessary
precautions to be taken.
Past experience in a hotel training institution is considered necessary.
The expert must have the ability of mastering Tanzanian cuisine and
national liquors and wines.
Kitchen Expert
6.        An expert with considerable experience in all branches of
cooking, including pastry making, baking, and butchering and a sound
knowledge and experience in the following fields:
(a) French phraseology and terminology used in the kitchen,
as well as of the names and composition of dishes used
in Tanzanian cooking;
(b) kitchen equipment and supervision of its use by others;
(c) hygiene and safety standards and regulations relevant to
the work of his department and the necessary precautions
to be taken;
(d) the procedures to be followed in organizing, conducting
and supervising training;
(e) the work of other departments as required for his own
department;
(f) basic food costing and control and menu planning; and



ANNEX II
Appendix II
-80-
(g) maintenance of kitchen equipment.
The expert must acquire a sound knowledge of the Tanzanian market and
products according to the various seasons. Past experience in a hotel
training institution is considered essential.
Tourism Expert
7.        An expert with considerable experience in all branches of the
travel business including organization of the sector, ticketing, guide
and information services and travel agency operation. Must have sound
knowledge and experience in the following fields:
(a) organization of travel agencies and guide services;
(b) airline ticketing;
(c) business mathematics and accounting techniques; and
(d) procedures to be followed in organizing, conducting
and supervising training.
Past experience in tourism training is considered necessary. The expert
must have the ability to master knowledge of Tanzania's attractions and
folklore.
Maintenance Engineer
8.        An expert with considerable experience in all aspects of hotel
maintenance, preferably with engineering qualifications, who has sound
knowledge and experience in the following:
(a) electrical, plumbing, air-conditioning and
refrigeration systems for hotels;
(Ib) maintenance of different types of professional
equipment (kitchen and bar);
(c) elementary carpentry and furniture repair;
(d) maintenance of equipment using small motors
(e.g., vacuum cleaners);
(e)  -fabrication of certain spare parts;
(f) organization of maintenance function in hotels
including management of workshop; and
(g) procedures to be followed in organizing, conducting
and supervising training.
The expert must be familiar with (or acquire knowledge of) equipment used
in Tanzania. Past experience in training most desirable.



HOTEL AND TOURISM TRAINING INSTITUTE
Schedule of Courses Including Operation of Practice Hotel
No. of                         1st Year                      No. of                     2nd Year                       3rd Year
Description of courses                                                           trainees       1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  trainees  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  1  2  3
THEORY
Induction (10 weeks)                                                                44                           .... 50-
Basic cookery - pastry                                                              16                                                           12                                                      __ ---
Basic restaurant - bar                                                              16                                                           14
Basic room - attendants                                                             12                                 -                         12
Middle level-cookery                                                                                                                             12            .......-I-......-.-.-.--.*.-.-..-...-.-
Middle level-restaurant                                                                                                                          14            ................................
Middle level-housekeeping                                                                                                                        12            ................................
Middle level-front office                                                                                                                        12            ... I........             .....-
Hotel maintenance                                                                   8                                                             8        -                        8
Tourist guides        /a                                                            15
Tourist information-clerks /                                                        15
Travel agency-clerks                                                                15/H
Non-resident
10
Supervisory level - cookery............
Supervisory level - restaurant                                                                                                                    8
8
Supervisory level - housekeeping                                                                                                       .......................
10
Supervisory level - front office                                                                                                       ......................
Upgrading and refresher                                                                                                                  .............
T O T A L                                                               97                                                          134
LEGEND:                  _   work in classroom
...........   work in practice hotel
............   alternating weeks in school/practice hotel
/a In first year an upgrading course of 4 months will be offered; after that a one year program will be introduced.



ANNEX II
Chart 2
-8 2-
HOTEL AND TOURISM TRAINING INSTITUTE
Type and Duration of Training Courses                   Duration
I N D U C T I O N         t         i      GENERAL TRAINING COURSE               10 weeks
COMPULSORY FOR ALL SKILLS
A B A S I C                                          KITCHEN             VE35 weeks
(lower lee)     
RESTAURANT & BAR                   33 weeks
7 weeks practice
ROOM-MAIDS                      25 weeks plus
10 weeks practice
MAINTENANCE                       40 weeks
I N D U C T I 0 N                           ~GENERAL TRAINING COURSE FOR           10 weeks
NEW DIRECT RECRUITS ONLY  
lb
J   KITCHEN            |      26 weeks x 2 = 52
lb
X    M I D D L E  L E V E L    f       |         RESTAURANT & BAR                      20 weeks x 2 = 40
(intermediate level) 
\ ,                          |                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/b
\\   FRONT OFFICE         |        20 weeks x 2 = 40
/b
HOUSEKEEPING                       20 weeks x 2 = 40
40 weeks
l   KITCHEN          X           22 weeks
RESTAURANT & BAR                     22 weeks
OR FOOD & BEVERAGE
_        ~~L E V E L      
FRONT OFFICE                       2Z weeks
HOUSEKEEPING                       22 weeks
TOURISM                          40 weeks
/a Course will include pastry/bakery.
/b Trainees originating from basic level will not repeat the induction.



HOTEL AND TOURISM TRAINING INSTITUTE
Layout of Courses
SECONDARY EDUCATION      l                            l   SECONDARY EDUCATION
|  INDUCTION COURSE                     3        NON-COMPLETED         ]                                    COMPLETED
BASIC LEVEL
KITCHEN         l           ETUAT&BRRO-ADSO
I                                                                        ROOM-ATTENDAT 
|    HOEL &CATERING INDUSTRY 
INDUCTION COURSE
MIDDLE LEVEL
F           KITCHEN                    RESTAURANT & BAR                  HOUSEKEEPING
FRONT OFFICE            C.
|HOTEL & CATERING INDUSTRY
SUPERVISORY LEVEL
KITCHEN                     FOOD & BEVERAGE                  HOUSEKEEPING       |     L      FRONT OFFICE 
HOTEL & CATERING INDUSTRY
MANAGEMENT SEMINARS /a
/a A pessible future activity.



HOTEL AND TOURISM TRAINING INSTITUTE
Occupations and Courses
LEVEL OF TRAINING           KITCHEN               FOOD SERVICE & BAR               FRONT OFFICE                    HOUSEKEEPING             MAINTENANCE            TOURISM               TRAVEL AGENCIES
Basic               "Commis" cook - asst.           Chef de rang -             On-the-job training            Room attendant                General asst.
to Chef de partie              (Station waiter)            Elevator attendant            Linen-room asst./maid          to qualified
in any section                 Barman asst. or             Doormen                       Laundry asst.                  staff in
including pastry               Bar-waiter                  Porters and pageboys          Linen-room checker             section
and bakery                     Coffee shop waiter
Room-service waiter
Lounge-waiter
Middle              Chef de partie                  Captain or station          Receptionist                  Floors housekeeper                   -               Information            Ticket clerk
(a) cold preparations               headwaiter             Tabular bookkeeper            Linenkeeper                                            guide duties            & information clerk
(b) grills                    Barman head                 Bookings clerk                 Laundry supervisor
(c) soups & vegetables         Coffee shop head            Desk clerk
(d) pastry/bakery              Head-floor waiter           Concierge
Cashier
Correspondence clerk
Supervisory         Section head                   Maitre d'hotel              Head receptionist              Housekeeper                         -                Guides                 Travel agents
Asst. to Chef                  Restaurant manager          Sales & public                    or Executive
Banquets officer               relations                     housekeeper
Asst.-food & beverage   Head hallporter
Special functions &
events officer



HOTEL AND TOURISM TRAINING INSTITUTE
Schedule of Technical Assistance and Teacher Training
1979             1980              1981             1982
POSITION/YEAR-QUARTER                                 1  2  3  4        1 2  3  4        1  2  3  4        1  2  3  4
Senior technical advisor                              x  x  x  x        x  x  x  x       xx  x  x
Technical Assistance:
Head Teacher                                                               x  x       x      x  x       x  x  x  x
2nd expert                                                             x  x       x  x  x  x       x  x  x  x
3rd expert                                                             x  x       x  x  x  x       x  x  x  x
4th expert                                                             x  x       x  x  x  x       x  x  x  x
5th expert                                                             x  x       x  x  x        x  x  x  x  x
6th expert                                                             x  x       x  x  x  x       x  x  x  x
a/
Tanzanian Teachers
Secondary School
Front office                                  x  x  x  x        x  x  x  x        x  x
Kitchen                                        x  x  x  x       x      x  x       x  x
Restaurant & bar                              x  x  x  x        x      x  x       x  x
Housekeeping                                  x  x  x  x        x  x  x  x        x  x
Tourism                                       x  x  x  x        x      x  x       x  x
Experienced Staff
Front office                                         x  x       x xx
Kitchen                                              x  x       x  x  x
Restaurant & bar                                     x  x       x x x
Housekeeping                                         x  x       x  x  x
Tourism                                              x  x       x  x  x
Maintenance engineer                                 x  x       x  x  x
a/  Assumes five secondary school graduates and five experienced staff.



HOTEL AND TOURISM TRAINING INSTITUTE
Organization Chart (DRAFT)
IP R I N C I P A=L 
I PERSONAL ASS15UTAN7
NSACCOUCTS        I     O        I| AIN. OFFICER
N URC SES    I               N                                                                                                                                                   NIGHT RACHMAN 
STORES      I               N                                                                                                                                                     MGCMRNP ER
I  DRICER                                                                           H        &                TE     RT                 ROER                                                    I
| HEAD OF COURISES                    II REGSTURART|EC
FOTOFFIC                                                                                                       r ICE           ORIM ||MITNNEIIFRONT OFFICE | I  IGEN I|RSTUATI     /EPIG || mAWEaN
FF..      |C INSRCO |KrNT RUCTOR   INSRC HA PN                      OFIE              NTUTR I|DS_E.|I AD   AGR|L|/  NTUTP 
PHYSICAL TRAINING ~ ~ ~   ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       NI
CINSTRCTOR XLINSTRCTOR   LNSTCUCORH   TNTUCO              D- ETS                 SITN                          EKRC         ATY/IIEY!|CFESO   ,                   S SE              LCRC
GUEST LECTURERSRE
|NIGHT PORTER         |                  |        -INSTUTRI |         NSRUTR LI GUEST LEGTRASURS.IICOMNL ,   
| AS.INSTRUCTOR|       C>ONTTOR                                 | LANGUAGE MSTRS           r     PFERATOR1                    = ORAT1LTol NN &wO  ATT m      PADYMAN 
| K.GLEANERS   I   | CLEANERS   |                    | ~~~HISTORY & GEOGRAH         E.PRTRIIPTAPR                                       OMAT 
I   POTWASHERS I   f CEARWCMEN  I                     | ~~~FOOD HYGIEN/URTO             AE      ||DSWSE                                 OMAT 
TYPEWRITING       I|K.SFWR                           I
PSYCHLG 
| CULTURAL SUBJ .     I
I PHYSICAL TRAINING I
F    GUEST LECTUES:X|
I   MANAGEMENT SYST
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   TRAINING   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   P ACTICE  HOTE   _ __PRA_TI_ _E_HO_ _ _ _



ANNEX III
-.7-
TANZANIA: TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRINCIPAL ASSUMPTIONS USED IN THE FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Financial Analysis
Income Statements
1.        Income statements are projected on an individual corporation
and where appropriate, on an individual hotel basis by using 1977 actual
and 1978 budget results as a base. Projections assume an annual inflation
rate of 10%.
2.        Revenue assumptions are as follows:
(a) hotel room sales are based on 1977 average revenues
per bednight, 1978 announced tariffs, and future bed
occupancy rates and real tariffs as given in Annex I,
Tables 6 and 17. 1978 average net revenues per bed-
night are Hotel Kilimanjaro, TSh 166; New Africa,
TSh 121; Kunduchi Beach, TSh 94; Mafia Island, TSh 126;
Mikumi, TSh 80; Lake Manyara, TSh 135; Ngorongoro,
TSh 123; Seronera, TSh 131; Lobo, TSh 131; Mt. Meru,
TSh 160; New Mwanza, TSh 81; New Safari, TSh 81; and
Moshi, TSh 87;
(b) food sales per bednight remain constant in real terms
at 1977 levels except for small increases in the
New Africa, Mafia, Mikumi and northern circuit hotels
and decreases in the Moshi Hotel, where the effect of
nonguest expenditures diminishes with increases in
bednights. Beverage sales per bednight remain
constant for all hotels except the Moshi and the
New Safari where they decrease;
(c) other hotel sales remain constant per bednight in
real terms for all hotels except the Serengeti
lodges, Mafia Island Lodge and Mt. Meru Hotel where
revenues are projected to increase in real terms;
(d) STS vehicle rentals are based on projected northern wildlife
bednights and consultants' assumptions on vehicle
days per bednight and tariffs for microbuses, land-
rovers and saloon cars;
(e) STS commission revenues are assumed to remain constant at TSh 15
per TTC bednight in real terms while Duty Free Shops sales rise
10% from TSh 2.8 to 3.1 per TTC bednight between
1978 and 1980; and



ANNEX III
-88--
(f) TTC headquarters cash income remains constant in real
terms.  Management and marketing fees of 6% of sales
will be charged to subsidiaries to the extent they make
before tax profits. Intercompany interest is assumed
to be charged only on external loans. Furaha ya Visiwani
and Bahari Beach investments are carried on an equity
basis with the former remaining constant in real terms
and the Bahari Beach earning TSh 100,000 annually in
real terms after 1980.
3.        Cost of sales assumptions are as follows:
(a) hotel costs of room, food, and beverage sales are
projected for individual hotels based on material and
supply costs, other variable costs, and fixed costs.
Fixed costs remain constant in real terms. Variable
costs fall slowly as a percentage of sales because of
economies of scale on increased volume and improved
efficiency. Reductions in variable costs vary from
hotel to hotel reflecting 1977 levels of efficiency
and potential for improvement. Variable costs for the
relatively efficient Hotel Kilimanjaro do not change;
those of less efficiently managed hotels gradually
move toward but generally do not reach present
Kilimanjaro levels. Other costs are assumed 100%
variable. On an overall basis, TTC hotel cost of
sales falls from about 54% of sales in 1978 to 47%
of sales in 1983; and
(b) non-hotel costs of sales: STS cost of sales are based
on the consultants' assumptions of cost per vehicle day.
Duty Free Shops cost of sales fall slowly as a percentage of
sales.
4.        Overhead expense assumptions are as follows:
(a) hotel general and administrative expense consists of a
variable component ranging from 2 to 2.8% of sales
and a real fixed cost component remaining constant over
the 1978-83 period;
(b) hotel repair and maintenance expense for 1978 will
be as budgeted; thereafter expenditures will be the
higher of 6% of total sales, or 2% of estimated
replacement value for wildlife lodges and Mt. Meru
hotels, and 3% of estimated replacement value of other
hotels;
(c) hotel heat, light and power: variable costs are 3 to
4% of total sales (most TTC hotels do not have air-



ANNEX III
-89-
conditioning or heating), and the fixed cost portion
rises 2% per year in real terms; and
(d) TTC headquarters overhead expenses remain constant irn
real terms with the exception of project-related
marketing and technical assistance expense for head-
quarters. TTL overhead rises 25% above 1978 budgeted
levels in 1979 because of the larger scale of operations
and remains constant thereafter. STS overhead remains
constant and Duty Free Shops overhead declines slowly
as a percentage of sales.
5.        Depreciation and amortization rates are actual on existing fixed
assets and formation expense, 20% on vehicles, pre-operating expense, and
new miscellaneous capital expenditures, 12.5% on all equipment, 10% on
furniture and professional fees, and 4% on buildings and civil works.
6.        Income is shielded from taxes by a three-year tax loss carry-
forward where applicable and is taxed at 50% after such loss carry-
forwards are used or expire. The proposed mergers of Kilimanjaro Hotels,
Ltd. with TTC is assumed to be the effective basis for future taxation
in 1978.
Balance Sheets
7.        Consolidated balance sheets for TTC and subsidiaries are pro-
jected based on a 1977 internally prepared balance sheet adjusted for
subsidiary schedules of external loans outstanding and the underlying
net worth of associated company investments. Unreconciled intercompany
loan accounts are written off to accounts payable and accruals.
8.        All due and overdue loans and accrued interest charges will be
paid in 1978. TSh 19.5 million of this funding requirement will be supplied
by a Government grant and the remainder will be paid from TTC sources except
for one Treasury loan which is assumed to be rescheduled per a pending
TTC request. Loan and interest will be paid as due thereafter.
9.        Tanzania Investment Bank shares in TTL will be purchased in
1978 for TSh 1.5 million to be financed through a five year loan. There
will be no new long-term borrowing with the exception of the IDA Credit
and the drawdown on the already committed loan for the New Africa extension.
10.       The New Africa extension of 165 rooms will open as scheduled
August 1, 1980 at the projected cost of about TSh 46 million without cost
overruns. There will be no other new projects prior to 1983.
11.       The 1978/79 Government budget will provide TSh 19.5 million
including TSh 4.7 million in subventions (principally for marketing
programs), TSh 4.6 million for STS capital expenditures and TSh 10.2
million for hotel capital expenditures. The latter allocation will not
cover items to be financed under the IDA Credit. Thereafter, the Govern-



ANNEX III
-90-
ment will provide no new funding to TTC except 25% of project capital
expenditures and the costs of the project marketing and technical assistance
programs.
12.       Interest expense on the New Africa extension prior to its opening
and interest expense on the IDA credit through 1982 are capitalized and
amortized over a five-year period.
13.       Vehicles are replaced every five years at the same real cost
as recent purchases. Miscellaneous capital replacement will annually
require TSh 200,000 in real terms for larger hotels, TSh 150,000 for
smaller hotels and TSh 100,000 for TTC headquarters. With the exception
of the STS vehicles in 1982 there will be no major capital replacement
requirements during the period.
14.       Working capital assumptions are as follows:
(a) minimum cash balances equal to 30 days expenditures
should be maintained. Cash shortages will be
financed by bank overdrafts at 10% interest;
(b) accounts receivable will drop from 119 days out-
standing in 1977 to 60 days outstanding in 1980
and thereafter. TSh 2 million in receivables
due from Kenyan tour operators will be written off
in 1978;
(c) inventory management will improve about 10% per
year allowing inventory turnover per year to
increase from 3.2 times in 1977 to 5 times by
1983; and
(d) accounts payable and accruals outstanding will
drop from 128 days expenditures in 1977 to
50 days by 1983 and thereafter.
Project Financing
15.       The onlending terms of the IDA Credit, representing 75% of TTC
capital expenditures, will be at 10% interest with a grace period on
both principal and interest payments for four years, and repayment of
principal and capitalized interest beginning in 1983. The Government
will take the foreign exchange risk.
16.       Project capital expenditures will commence in the second
quarter of calendar year 1979. Disbursements will lag behind expenditures
by one quarter.



ANNEX III
-91-
B. Economic Analysis
Hotel Rehabilitation
17.       (a)  projected bednights at TTC hotels with and without
the project are shown in Annex I, Table 6;
(b)  share of incremental bednights due to tourist and
local businessmen are shown in Annex I, Table 17;
(c)  expenditure pattern of tourists and local businessmen
are shown in Table 1 of this Annex;
(d)  net benefits per day from tourists and local business-
men are shown in Table I of this Annex;
(e)  real rate increases forecast for TTC hotels are
shown in Annex I, Table 17;
(f)  tips are assumed to be 5% of foreign guests'
expenditure on meals;
(g)  Government levy is 12.5% on room and breakfast
rate and 12% on room and full board rate;
(h)  shadow exchange rate is US$1 to TSh 12 (official
rate is US$1 to TSh 8);
(i)  foreign exchange component of investment and
replacement costs is 65%;
(j)  foreign exchange component of repair and
maintenance costs is 45%;
(k)  foreign exchange component of operating costs
is 12%;
(1)  all costs and benefit streams are in 1978 prices;
(m)  all costs are net of taxes;
(n)  construction period extends from 1979 through
1981; and
(o)  investment costs for each year are spread over that
year and the following year in the ratio of 75% for
the year in which acquisition (or construction)
takes place and 25% for the following year.



ANNEX III
-92-
Airport
18.       (a)  renovation works on the airport will be complete in
1981;
(b) the facilities would have capacity for about 250
departing and 100 arriving passengers at any given
time;
(c) time taken to process each passenger would, on average,
be reduced by 30 minutes, i.e., 20 minutes reduction
for arriving passengers and 10 minutes reduction for
departing passengers;
(d) by 1981 there will be about 180,000 tourists using
the airport for international flights. Of these,
foreigners will constitute about 90% and the rate
of growth of passenger traffic will average 7%
annually;
(e) the average income of a foreign passenger is
estimated to be US$15,000 per 45-week year and
leisure time is valued at 25% of working time; and
(f) maintenance cost is estimated at 5% of civil
works.



Expenditure Pattern of Tourists
(tSh in 1978 prices)
GROSS EXPENDITURES PER DAY
Kilimanjaro  N.Africa   Kunduchi  Mafia   Mikumi   L.Manyara   Ngorongoro  Seronera  Lobo   Mwanza    Safari                 Moshl.
For.   Loc.l-For. Loc.  For.         For.   For. Loc.   For.          For.        For.       For.  For.  Loc.  For. Loc.  For. Loc.
1979  384    326   319  265   242          282    224  187    310            274         291        275   205   183   241  192   242  203
1900  394    336   326  272   242           282    224  188    310           274         291        275   205   133   241  192   242  203
1981  403    345   334  280   245          288    230  193    321            284         303        286   210   168   243  194   246  207
1982  413    355   341  287   249          296    234  201    329            295         313        294   214   192   248  199   252  213
1983  413    355   341  287   249          303    234  201    329            295         313        294   214   192   248  199   252  213
;/  Lvcai bUU6..tbb 6U-bL   expenditures ior room ana Deverage are cne same as tor toreign guest; for food, it is 75% of
that of foreign guests; for miscellaneous purchases it is 25% of that of foreign guests. Local guests' expentitures
do not include tips.
WEIGHTED RATIO OF COSTS (%)
1979   32            37           44         45     44            41          45          45         53    43            43          46
1980   31            36          43         44      44           40           43          43         51    41            42          45
1981   31            35          42         41      43            39          42          41         49    40            40          44
1982   30            35          41          39     41            37          41          40         46    39            39           43
1983   30            33           39         37     40            37          40          39         45    38            38          42
NET BENEFITS PER DAY       (Foreigners shadow priced at US$1=12 Shillings)
1979  392    222   301  167   203          233    188   105   274            226         240        190   175   104   206  109   196   110           H
190u  4Ui    232   ;13  i74   2'iJ          Z/L    IMb   1U)   Z79           234         249        202   181   108   210  111   200   112
1981  417    238   326  182   213          255    197   110   294            247         268        219   189   113   219  116   207   116
1982  434    249   332  187   220          271    207   119   311            261         282        238   196   115   227  121   215   121
1983  434    249   343  192   228          286    211   121   311            266         286        243   199   119   231  123   219   124



ANNEX IV
-94-
TANZANIA: TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Documents Related to the Sector
1. Tourism in Tanzania--A Master Plan. Arthur D. Little, 19700
2. Marketing of Tourist Product in Tanzania, Economic Commission for
Africa, 1975.
3. Tourism and Underdevelopment; and the Tanzania Case by S. Curry,
University of Dar es Salaam, 1977.
4. Speech to the Dar es Salaam Chamber of Commerce on December 2, 1977
by the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism.
5. Improving Maliasili's Effectiveness under Decentralization,
McKinsey & Co., 1973.
6. Report on Tourism Statistics in Tanzania, Bureau of Statistics, 1970.
7- Tourism Statistics Quarterly Reports for 1975, 1976 and January-June 1977,
Bureau of Statistics.
B. Reports and Documents Related to the Project
1. Tanzania Tourism Study, Coopers & Lybrand in association with
Norman and Dawbarn, 1978.
2. The Production Development Fund Act, 1974.
3. The Tanzania Tourist Corporation Act and Supplement, 1969.
4. Reorganization of the TTC and Its Subsidiaries, National Institute for
Productivity, 1975.
5. TTC Annual Reports for 1969 to 1975. (Later reports have not been
issued.)
6. TTC (Unconsolidated) Audited Financial Statements 1970-1976 together
with Auditor's Comments to Management in 1975-1976.



ANNEX IV
-95-
7. 1975 Audited Financial Statements for All Subsidiaries and the Bahari
Beach Hotel Investment.
8. 1976 Audited Financial Statements for Serengeti Safari Lodges Ltd.,
Coastal Hotels Ltd., Tanzania Tours Ltd., State Travel Services,
Mwanza Hotels Ltd. and TTC Tourism Fund. Provisional 1976 Financial
Statements for Kilimanjaro Hotels Ltd., Moshi Hotel, Mount Meru
Hotels Ltd., New Safari Hotel Ltd. and Bahari Beach Hotel Ltd.
9. TTC Provisional Consolidating Income Statement and Consolidated
Balance Sheet 1977.
10. TTC Long Term Debt Outstanding at December 31, 1977 and Terms Thereon.
11. TTC 1978 Budget Request and Subsidiaries Budgets.
12. TTC Standard Operating Procedures Manuals.
13. Dar es Salaam International Airport-New Short Term International Terminal
Study, Norman and Dawbarn, June 1978.
14. The Wildlife Conservation Act, 1974.
15. Ngorongoro Conservation Area Ordinance, 1972.
16. Memorandum on Equipment Required for Maintaining the Conservation Efforts
in the National Parks and Ngorongoro Conservation Area-MNR&T, October
1978.
17. TANAPA Annual Reports 1974/75 and 1975/76.
C. Selected Working Papers and Tables
1. TTC Hotels and Lodges--Breakdown of Rehabilitation Costs.
2. TTC Hotels and Lodges--Average Rehabilitation Costs per Room.
3. TTC Centralized Marketing Expenditures by Category 1979-81.
4. Income Statement 1976-1983 for Individual TTC Hotels.






iUGANDA J-                                                                                                                                                                             I TrRD0 168
>  N? ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Y
*RWANDA 
Mb k: - 1,,>                   M         us Ti 'j7---;' /  NY A                                                      -,                             40/ V0.0 Dl
-   (B 0 ;   AL  MR BESERVE   80 k                       J                                                                                    04
-E ESR                          M                            t.MUL  \ ;                       0000                                                    TANZANiA
B E R                                                                                                                           T    SA    ,' (.f9KRVO:            T- AZ5; .  u
ICAN
0  tW   -\    /                                              -ZoLeL =Ss~~~~~~~~~~'fl   MfAUVOA  MLOH  sbL    B  )    5hR    
NA VN  T                                                                                   ik D40 MkyV MA,~  .      .,
9 4  W < + TOURT                                                                                                                                             ISM  REHA;ILITIN   PROJECT
L/~~~~~ AOl                                                                                                                                    MOiR rood~~~~~~~~r  k
Sirgid ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sco8yroods
KIGO/= T ) $-Sni -' _t\i 11 1R;rr 
/ VHB/~~~~~Ralyy
\   t  v J  '  ' S  F-i _ '        <        .1  i,          )    <                              A N G A    , w  /st-421D  e3  tht fr3tiofedX qiS ra  04100/0000  rpnt.rorleoi qtp.r
+  Scred,,led $814/ce BOi
ME RESERVE                                                                                                                I n} ,> - ( kl, i e t - o G  ZANA   .   tional bovndari.s
GAA`M'E"R ElLtRtl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A A /O
.1A   <   f   t   Ri  KArAV PLAIN | V > e ~~~~~~~~~~~020   2 J4 Ds A0 82  00  20  42N
0   20      40    8 80  0O   100
2'Al R  Tr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A/R
0     7_:-                                                                                                                                                                 M,t*  .  -  '  " -    '  /es
T  aR e ;C^<-w   t   naX   0  [  (  M<WCKlVlniB K n-                                                                                                   .
Ze* A7. <'t    _M-Bslf
S pw#U/v W g: ' /,' : t MlmX _ 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t'  '<v;'lv7t'.t........................ .X.Ekj-,; rin .E-............................................................................................. 



