Document of                    FILE  Copy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2418-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 29, 1978
This document has a resicted distributon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =    Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
US$1.0               =    TSh 8.00
TSh 1.0              =    US$0.125
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued at a
fixed rate of 9.66 TSh to the SDR, the US Dollar/
Tanzania Shilling exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in this report were made at US$1.00 to
TSh 8.00 which is close to the 1978 average exchange
rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EAC     -   East African Community
HTTI    -   Hotel and Tourism Training Institute
MNR&T   -   Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism
NCA     -   Ngorongoro Conservation Authority
SSLL    -   Serengeti Safari Lodges, Ltd.
TANAPA  -   Tanzania National Parks
TTC     -   Tanzania Tourist Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
TTC          January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiary:         Tanzania Tourist Corporation (TTC)
Amount:              US$14.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Relending
Terms:            US$9.5 million of the Credit will be onlent to TTC for
16 years with 4 years of grace at an interest rate of
10% per annum.
Project
Description:       The proposed project, which will assist the Government
in reversing the deterioration in tourist facilities and
services, would consist of the following components:
(i) works and equipment required to bring TTC hotels
and lodges to appropriate operating standards; (ii) tech-
nical assistance to TTC in the field of hotel maintenance,
marketing, hotel supplies, hotel communications and proj-
ect administration; (iii) preparation of promotional
materials and marketing campaigns aimed at the tourist
travel trade; (iv) construction, furnishing and equipping,
and technical assistance for a new Hotel and TJourism
Training Institute (HTTI) in Dar es Salaam; (v) equipment
for improving the effectiveness of the Governmient's anti-
poaching efforts; and (vi) improvements to the terminal
building of the Dar es Salaam Airport.  The project's
major risks involve the uncertainty related to the fore-
cast of tourist flows to Tanzania (particular]y in light
of past deterioration in tourist services and facilities),
and TTC's managerial capability to implement the project
effectively. By providing substantial technical assistance
as well as the other ingredients necessary to market
Tanzania's tourist attractions effectively, the project is
designed to overcome these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Estimated Cost:                                               (US$ millions)
Local  Foreign  Total
Civil Works
Hotel rehabilitation                1.04    1.96    3.00
HTTI                               0.50    0.88    1.38
Airport terminal                   0.30    0.57    0.87
Subtotal                         1.84    3.41    5.25
Furniture & fixtures                 0.30    0.90    1.20
Equipment                             0.68    3.95    4.63
Professional services                0.72    0.39    1.11
Technical assistance                  0.17    1.52    1.69
Marketing expenditures               0.19    0.54    0.73
Total Base Cost                  3.90   10.71   14.61
Contingencies
Physical                           0.32    0.79    1.11
Price                              1.28    2.50    3.78
Total Project Cost                 5.50   14.00   19.50
of which taxes and duties        1.20      -      1.20
PROJECT COST NET OF
TAXES AND DUTIES                    4.30   14.00   18.30
Financing Plan:                                           (US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total       %
IDA                       -         14.00       14.00       77
Government               4.30         -          4.30       23
PROJECT COST
NET OF TAXES
AND DUTIES               4.30       14.00       18.30      100
Disbursement:                                             (US$ million)
IDA FY                    80         81           82        83
t
Annual                    1.2        4.2         5.8       2.8
Cumulative               1.2         5.4        11.2      14.0
Rate of Return:      21%
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2138-TA dated November 20, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of US$14.0 million equivalent on
standard terms to help finance a Tourism Rehabilitation Project.  Approx-
imately US$9.5 million equivalent of the proceeds of the credit would be
relent to the Tanzania Tourist Corporation at 10% interest per annum for
16 years with 4 years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976.  The
Basic Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Profile of the Economy
3.        Tanzania is one of the twenty-five least developed countries in
the world with a per capita income in 1977 of US$200. The economy is still
heavily dependent on agriculture: 90% of the labor force is engaged in agri-
culture and approximately 40% of GDP and two-thirds of total exports are
derived from agricultural production. Average rural incomes are much below
average urban incomes and there is considerable regional variation in rural
incomes owing largely to differences in climate and land fertility. Overall
population density is low, though a few areas are considered overpopulated.
Population growth is estimated at 2.7% per annum with both fertility and
mortality at relatively high levels.
4.        Since the Arusha Declaration in 1967 Tanzania has pursued a socialist
development strategy. Banking, insurance, and most large-scale enterprises
in manufacturing, plantation agriculture, and wholesale trade are under state
control. Controls are used extensively to direct economic activity, including
import licencing, foreign exchange control, price control, the reservation of
some activities to the state or cooperative sector, and detailed Government
investment planning. The second major feature of Tanzania's development
strategy is its strong emphasis on rural development and social programs to
benefit the poor. This is reflected in ambitious programs for the provision
of rural water supplies and health services and in the decision to achieve
universal entry into primary education by 1977. The Government policy of
settling rural population into villages is an important element in its attempt
to facilitate the provision of economic and social services in rural areas.
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Education VI Project, dated November 29, 1978.



-2-
Long-Term Economic Trends
5.        In the decade 1967-77 real GDP at factor cost grew at an annual
average rate of 4.6%, or about 1.8% per annum per capita. While economic
growth was severely disrupted by the economic crisis following the failure
of rains and large increases in import prices in 1973 and 1974, it has since
resumed with the improved weather in 1976 and 1977.
6.        The Government has an impressive record of domestic resource
mobilization. Between 1966-67 and 1976-77 the share of recurrent revenue
rose from 14.3% to 20.2% of GDP. This has been achieved through a combina-
tion of highly progressive direct taxes and proportional or moderately pro-
gressive indirect taxes. Except during the economic crisis in 1974-75, the
rate of national savings has also been high: gross national savings fluc-
tuated at around 16-17% of GNP from the mid-1960's through 1973, fell to
half that level during the crisis years and recovered to the pre-crisis
level in 1976-77. These are extremely high levels of savings for a country
at Tanzania's income level.
7.        Some progress has also been made in achieving the Government's
objective of a more equitable income distribution. While between 1969 and
1975 the average urban-rural gap remained approximately constant, it is likely
that the gap has now been slightly reduced due to continued recovery of agri-
cultural production and higher producer prices. Within the urban sector there
has been a dramatic narrowing of the post-tax income differential between the
highest-paid government officials and minimum wage earners from 50 to 1 in
1961 to 8 to 1 in 1975. However, the overall formal urban sector earnings
structure has remained relatively stable while an informal sector has emerged
comprising large numbers of unemployed, underemployed and other workers with
earnings significantly below the official urban minimum wage. The policies
of wage restraint and higher producer prices pursued by the Government since
1975 have had a beneficial impact on almost all dimensions of income distri-
bution and the basic needs oriented programs in rural water and health and
in universal primary education (para 4 above) are resulting in a significant
redirection in public expenditures toward the rural poor.
8.        Despite satisfactory performance on growth, domestic resource
mobilization, and income distribution there are other areas in which per-
formance has been less satisfactory. The most problematic long-term trend
is the slow growth of agricultural production. From 1967-77 agriculture
grew at an annual rate of 2.7%, the same as the rate of growth of population.
While in the past three years agricultural growth has been higher, this pri-
marily represents recovery to the long-term trend from the bad years in
1973-74. In addition the recovery has been limited to subsistence agricul-
ture; monetary agricultural production was only 2.2% higher in 1977 than in
1972.
9.        Low agricultural growth has been largely responsible for a second
problem, the disappointingly slow growth of export volume: while the total
volume of exports of goods and services was 7.7% higher in 1976 than in



- 3 -
1966, the volume of exports of goods alone was actually lower in [976 than
a decade earlier. From 1966-71, the volume of exports of goods and services
grew at 7.7% per year, but this was followed by a decline after 1971, a sharp
drop in 1974, and only a partial recovery by 1976. Increased levels of
foreign assistance and high coffee prices have mitigated the worst effects
of the decline in export volume, but Government authorities have been forced
to impose stricter import controls which have had particularly adverse
effects on industrial production in recent years.
Recent Economic Performance
10.       The economy continued its recovery in 1977.  Total GDP increased
by 5.9% while agricultural production increased by 5.6%. There was no sig-
nificant change in export volume but the boom in coffee prices helped raise
mainland commodity export receipts from TSh 3,828 million to TSh 4,585 mil-
lion. External reserves were US$280 million at the end of 1977 but had
fallen to US$200 million by May 1978 largely as a result of falling coffee
prices. This is equivalent to three months imports at the 1977 lEvel.
11.       Recovery has been aided by good economic management.  The Govern-
ment has continued to adhere to the principal elements of the policy package
introduced at the time of appraisal and negotiation of the Program Loan
(No. 1063-TA) in late 1974. These include reallocation of investment in
favor of directly productive sectors, higher agricultural producer prices,
constraints on wages and salaries, and price and tax increases to restrain
private consumption. The Government has also succeeded in bringing Gov-
ernment spending under control and has begun to relax import controls.
Because excessive Government spending and borrowing from the banking system
was threatening to undermine financial stability and the entire program of
recovery in early 1976, a program of budgetary control was developed by the
Government and supported by both IMF assistance and a Program Credit (No.
688-TA) in early 1977. Through the imposition of new budgetary control
measures and the reimposition of a progressive tax on coffee exports, the
Government was able in 1977-78 to hold bank borrowing to nearly zero. The
Program Credit was also designed to support selected relaxation of import
controls in order to provide needed imports of spare parts and raw materials
for increased capacity utilization. After some delays, the availability of
essential maintenance imports has increased.
12.       In addition, the Government has experimented in recent months
with measures to increase labor productivity. These have included layoffs
of some redundant workers and consultancy studies of the operational prob-
lems of individual firms. Of potentially greater importance, in his Budget
Speech in June 1978 the Finance Minister called for the immediate adoption
of a payment-by-result wage system to stimulate productivity.



13.       Tanzania continues to attract large amounts of foreign assistance
on concessional terms.  Because of the very concessional terms on which aid
has been given to Tanzania and the Government's refusal to use higher cost
commercial loans and supplier's credits, the overall debt service ratio
has remained low. Including a notional 40% share of the debt of the East
African Community Corporations, it was less than 8% in 1977. Bank debt as
a percentage of Tanzania's total debt was about 26% in 1977; this is pro-
jected to rise to about 29% in 1985 and remain stable thereafter. While
the favorable terms of much of Tanzania's foreign assistance (particularly
the increasing proportion of grants) significantly reduce the debt service
burden, they also increase Bank Group exposure. Debt service payments to
the Bank Group were about 28.6% of Tanzania's total debt service payments
in 1977, and are projected to rise to approximately 30% in 1980.
14.       Tanzania has a suitable development program which will require
substantial domestic funds in excess of local savings and available non-Bank
Group external capital. Local cost financing is justified in view of our
support for the Government's increased emphasis on local cost-intensive rural
investments and the importance of not aggravating the local funds shortage.
East African Community (EAC)
15.       The recent developments in the East African Community were ouitlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 19, 1977 (R77-312).
Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States,
has visited East Africa on numerous occasions and has begun work on the ques-
tions involved in appraising the assets and liabilities of the EAC Corpora-
tions and making recommendations on their allocation. The de facto breakup
of the Community is expected to have some impact on Tanzania's budget as new
national corporations take over the services formerly provided by the EAC
Corporations. While substantial initial investments are required (particu-
larly in the formation of the airways corporation and the rehabilitation of
the railways), the burden on the Government budget should be temporary as the
new corporations are expected to become self-financing. A major development
related to the EAC difficulties was the closure of the border with Kenya.
Kenya was a major trading partner of Tanzania and in the short run consider-
able adjustments have had to be made in locating new suppliers for some
items and developing alternative outlets for some manufactured goods and
agricultural products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA 1/
16.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1962, 34 IDA credits, and 16 Bank loans including
two on Third Window terms amounting to US$604.5 million have so far been
approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Education VI Project, dated November 29, 1978.



- 5 -
loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended lor the deveiLupent
of the common services and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania,
Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African Community.
IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made to the
Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial
difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest in the
Company to the Government. A new IFC investment of US$1.75 million in soap
manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June 8,
1978. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans, IDA credits and
IFC investments to Tanzania and the East African Community organizations as
of October 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy Bank Group
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly
productive projects. Up to the end of FY72, 10 out of 14 loans and credits
made individually to Tanzania had been for infrastructure. The overwhelming
majority of the operations approved since then have been for directly pro-
ductive projects. Furthermore, a number of Bank Group supported infrastruc-
ture projects have been closely linked with specific productive activities.
For example, the Urban Water Supply Project (Loan No. 1354-TA) approved
in January 1977, will support the Industrial Complex in Morogoro (Loans No.
1385-T-TA and 1386-TA) and the Morogoro Textile Project (Loan No. 1607-TA
and Credit No. 833-TA). Directly productive projects recently approved
include a Tanzanian Investment Bank Project, a Tobacco Handling Project, a
Second Cashewnut Processing Project, and a Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development
Project. The first Bank Group assisted project in the forestry sector, the
Sao Hill Forestry Project (Loan No. 1307-TA), approved in July 1976 will
provide the raw materials for Tanzania's first paper and pulp plant, also
under consideration by the Bank Group for financing. Projects which have
been appraised include a Sixth Education Project, a Second Urban Water Supply
Project, the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project, lines of credit to the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank and the Tanzania Investment Bank, a Fifth Highway
Project and a Smallholder Tea Consolidation Project. A rural development
project in Mara, a foodgrain storage and milling project, a harbours project,
and an agricultural services project are also under preparation.
18.       Although the comparatively high proportion of undisbursed loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is in large part a result of tlne recent
approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that overall
project implementation has been slower than was projected. It is clear in
retrospect that both the Bank Group and Tanzania have been optimistic regard-
ing Tanzania's absorptive capacity. The causes of the difficulties in
implementation are varied. Some stem from the scarcity of suitab:Ly trained
and experienced manpower, some reflect the problems in identifying agronomic
input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder farmers while others
result from the strains associated with attempting a "frontal attack" on
poverty. These problems have been compounded by frequent and drastic adminis-
trative changes, which -- though potentially the source of long-term benefits
-- have certainly disrupted orderly execution of projects and made parts of
earlier project concepts obsolete. In general, difficulties have been most
severe in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural sector. As



Bank Group lending program has increasingly concentrated on this sector,
these problems have become correspondingly more apparent and severe. By
contrast, the "modern" sector projects have tended to fare better:  the
Tanzania Investment Bank, Mwanza Textile, and Cashewnut Processing Projects,
for example, are proceeding well.
19.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increasing
attention has been given to measures designed to improve project implementa-
tion.  A course was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 and again in 1978 on
Bank Group procurement procedures with the relevant Government officials. A
special project implementation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture
and nine Agricultural Development Services staff have been assigned to Bank
Group projects in the agriculture sector. The need to establish a close and
continuous working level dialogue between responsible Tanzanian officials and
Bank Group staff on implementation problems was one of the prime reasons for
the expansion of the Resident Mission to two professionals in October 1976.
In February 1977 a regular Government/Bank Group review of project implemen-
tation was established. Discussions on the Bank Group portfolio chaired
by the Ministry of Finance and attended by Bank Group staff and officials
from implementing agencies, were to be held on a quarterly basis. Steps to
strengthen these review procedures were taken in August 1977 when those
meetings were shifted to a monthly basis. The Government also agreed that
periodically these reviews will be conducted on an "in-depth" basis to dis-
cuss in detail individual problem projects and problems which are affecting
project implementation across a number of sectors. As a result of these
reviews a number of positive developments have been noted: most actions
agreed to during the reviews have been completed on schedule and the coor-
dination and communication between the Ministry of Finance and the various
ministries and agencies responsible for project implementation have improved
markedly.
20.       The Government has also become increasingly conscious of the
importance of implementation. In addition to fully supporting the project
implementation review system, the Ministry of Finance has now decided to
set up an internal unit to oversee project performance. Furthermore, there
have been more consistent responses to Bank suggestions and a willingness
to openly discuss project problems raised by Bank Group staff. As a con-
sequence, the disbursement record of Bank Group financed projects has improved
somewhat over the last two years, and a recent analysis indicated that the
Tanzanian disbursement performance is now about equal to the Bank Group
average.
PART III - THE TOURISM SECTOR
Tourism Assets
21.       Tanzania has impressive tourist attractions including spectacular
scenery, wildlife and beaches, and historical and archaelogical sites. The
wildlife resources are among the finest in the world, including the Serengeti



- 7 -
Plains, Ngorongoro Crater, and Lake Manyara in the north, and the relatively
undeveloped Selous Game Reserve in the south. These game reserves together
with the attraction of Africa's highest mountain, Kilimanjaro, have long been
part of an established East African tourist circuit. Additional attractions
include the sandy beaches north of Dar es Salaam, the "spice island" of
Zanzibar, and excellent deep sea fishing at Mafia Island. Along the Indian
Ocean coast are the remains of ancient settlements, and Olduvai Gorge, in the
interior Rift Valley, is the site of discoveries of the traces of earliest
man. Tanzania also offers numerous arts and crafts, most notably the Makonde
sculptures and carvings.
Government and Public Attitudes Toward Tourism
22.       After substantial investments were made in tourism in Tanzania
during the 1960s, the development of tourism became a subject of controversy
in 1970, the major issue being the compatibility of tourism and socialist
development. In 1973 the Economic Committee of the Cabinet decided to avoid
major expansion in state-owned tourist facilities and to concentrate instead
on consolidation of the existing investments. Due to the resulting uncer-
tainties about the future of tourism, private entrepreneurs also refrained
from further investment in the sector. When Tanzania faced a severe economic
crisis in 1974, the operating conditions of state- and privately-owned hotels
worsened considerably: the overall scarcity of foreign exchange and the low
priority given to tourism meant that practically no foreign exchange was
available to hotels. Consequently, hotels were unable to purchase maintenance
material, spare parts and necessary equipment, and their physical plants
deteriorated rapidly.
23.       Since late 1975, the attitude of the Government has changed gradually
as it became confident that through proper education any adverse impact of
tourism on political and social values could be avoided. Accordingly, the
TANU Party and the hotel industry initiated a campaign to educate workers to
the value of tourism. With the subsequent improvement in the general economic
conditions in 1976 and 1977, the Government also increased foreign exchange
allocations to the sector. Hotels could again order essential equipment and
supplies from abroad, maintenance expenditures at state hotels were increased
and more funds were made available for promoting Tanzania's tourist attractions.
24.       In a clear change from the uncertain policy of the early 1970s, the
Government is now urging the private sector to invest in tourism. At the end
of 1977, the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, on behalf of the Gov-
ernment, invited all private investors, national and foreign, to invest in
the sector. In addition, the Association of Hoteliers was revived in early
1978, and discussions on the needs of the private sector were initiated
between Government and private hotel operators. In a number of recent dis-
cussions, the Government has emphasized that the foreign exchange needed to
properly operate the sector will be made available. Finally, the Government
requested Bank Group assistance in rehabilitating the tourism industry.



-8-
The Hotel Industry
25.       Present hotel capacity in Tanzania is about 3,600 rooms (6,900
beds). Of these, about 2,500 rooms (4,900 beds) are considered of interna-
tional standard; they are located mainly in the northern wildlife area, along
the coast and in Dar es Salaam. Hotels in Tanzania are owned by both Govern-
ment agencies and private entrepreneurs. At the end of 1977, the publicly
owned Tanzania Tourist Corporation (TTC) controlled about 2,300 beds or over
45% of international standard hotel capacity in Tanzania. In addition,
TTC has large minority shareholdings in two other international hotels which
account for 10% of accommodation capacity. It is estimated that two-thirds of
the private hotels are owned by Tanzanians.
Visitor Trends and Market Forecasts
26.       For the safari-oriented tourists, Tanzania offers one of the finest
concentrations of wildlife in the world; few countries can effectively compete
with Tanzania for this segment of the market. While competition for beach-
oriented winter tourists is fierce, Tanzania enjoys three advantages in this
market: (i) its beaches are not over-developed, (ii) hotel prices are some-
what below those of neighboring countries and substantially below those of
Caribbean destinations, and (iii) tourists can combine beach vacations with
excursions to the wildlife areas.
27.       Tourist flows rose rapidly in the 1960s and early 1970s as Tanzania
changed from a discovery area to an important tourist destination. Increased
popularity of safari tours in Africa as well as construction in Tanzania of
additional hotels of international standard helped sustain this increase.
Visitor bednights in registered hotels increased from about 295,000 in 1969
to 560,000 in 1976, or about 10% annually. However, underlying this general
trend was a marked slowdown in the period 1972-76, reflecting in part the
ambivalence of the Government toward tourism. Tourist flows to the northern
wildlife area, which grew by 25% annually between 1969 and 1972, actually
declined by 2% annually between 1972 and 1976. Then in 1977, the border with
Kenya was closed as an outgrowth of the East African Community difficulties
(para. 15) and there was a sharp reduction (about 70%) in visitors to the
northern national parks. At Dar es Salaam beach hotels, the number of visitor
bednights, which rose to over 80,000 in 1972 fell to half that level by 1976.
28.       Tour operators in Europe and North America (the major tourist gen-
erating markets) have been reluctant since 1972 to offer tours to Tanzania.
They could not be certain of the quality and reliability of services provided
as hotel accommodations deteriorated rapidly; in some cases tour operators
were liable for compensating disenchanted visitors. This development is
reflected in the visitor statistics: between 1972 and 1976 overall European
visitor bednights decreased by 2% per annum and American visitor bednights by
5% per annum. As of 1976 Europeans accounted for 40% and Americans for 20% of
visitor bednights, down from 50% and 28% respectively in 1972.
29.       In the future, the overall safari market is projected to grow at
8% annually, and with an appropriate marketing effort and the improvement



- 9 -
of tourism facilities and services it is projected thaL fanzania could
gradually increase its share of the East African safari market from the
depressed 1977 level (about 15%) to its 1976 market share (about 40%).
Furthermore, with improved performance in the industry, it is expected thaL
the average tourist stay could be increased from the present 2.3 days to 3
days in the northern national parks and from 1 to 2 days in Arusha, which
serves as an access to the northern wildlife areas. Moreover, it has been
estimated that about 20% of the tourists to the wildlife areas could be
attracted to Tanzania on a safari/beach package including 5 days of safari and
4 days of beach stay. The island of Zanzibar, which is only a twenty-minute
flight from Dar es Salaam, could also provide an increasingly attractive
component in a tour package with visits lasting 1 to 2 days. The table below
summarizes the forecasts of demand and supply of hotel accommodation in
Tanzania.
Excess 1985 Additional
1976         1985      Current   Demand over  Rooms re-
Actual     Projected  Available   Available   quired by
Location              Bednights   Bednights   Capacity    Capaci2L_    1985
('000)      ('000)       ( '000)      ('000)
Dar es Salaam            532        1,017         571          446         760
Beach Hotels              94          200         204           -           -
Northern Wildlife        171          224         257           -           -
Arusha/Moshi             142          237         281           -           -
Zanzibar                  27           53          69           -           -
The table demonstrates the underutilization of presently available hotel
capacity and therefore the high sectoral priority of increasing the visitor
flow to Tanzania.
Tourism Related Infrastructure
30.       Dar es Salaam Airport is the main international port cf entry and
the hub of the domestic air transport system. It is served by 18 scheduled
and 20 nonscheduled carriers. The airport currently handles abcut 1,200
passengers per day, but its facilities are inadequate: processing of arriv-
ing passengers is extremely slow, the luggage handling system is inefficient
and the departure lounge is too small to handle demand at peak hours. The
proposed project contains a component. specifically addressed at resolving
these problems (para. 46). The northern wildlife area is adequately served by
the Kilimanjaro Airport at Arusha which was completed in 1971: in addition to
occasional charter flights, four international airlines include that airport
in their scheduled operations.
31.       The main access to Tanzania's national parks is by road.  Although
the roads within the national parks are adequately maintained and passable
throughout the year, some of the roads leading to the parks, especially to the
popular northern wildlife area, are poorly maintained. Because of lack of
proper drainage they are frequently flooded during the rainy season and
can be used only by four-wheel drive vehicles. The Government has agreed that
the major access road to the northern national parks will be upgraded to an



- 10 -
all weather standard and subsequently maintained to that standard (Section
3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Bank Group financing for
this investment is under consideration as a component of the recently appraised
Fifth Highway Project.
Tourism Sector Management
32.       The Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism (MNR&T) oversees
wildlife management and the development of national parks through its Wildlife
Division. The formulation of tourism policies, hotel classifications and
supervision of the hotel training school is overseen by MNR&T's Tourism
Division.  The Tanzania National Parks Authority (TANAPA) and the Ngorongoro
Conservation Authority (NCA), Government-owned parastatals under MNR&T, are
responsible for the operation of the National Parks and the Ngorongoro con-
servation area, respectively. The TTC (para 25), another Government-owned
parastatal organization under MNR&T, is charged with managing and controlling
state investments in tourism and promoting the tourist industry. By the end
of 1977, TTC owned 13 hotels and controlled and operated the State Travel
Service (a travel agency and tour operator), and Tanzania Duty Free Shops
Ltd. TTC also runs overseas offices in Frankfurt, London, Milan, and New York
and is responsible for conducting the overall promotion campaign for Tanzania's
tourism industry. Total TTC staff is about 2,400.
Tourism Training
33.       The major training institute for the tourism sector is presently
the hotel training school located in central Dar es Salaam on the premises
of an old hotel; the physical facilities of the school are inadequate and
the curriculum does not reflect the training needs of the sector. In addi-
tion, since the departure of the technical assistance team which had been
running the school, only a few qualified instructors remain. Because the
existing school building is a historic landmark (which precludes its alter-
ation) the proposed project includes financing for a new school; funds are
also provided for the technical assistance needed to operate the school
properly (para 43 and 44).
Wildlife Policies
34.       The Government of Tanzania has recognized the importance of conserv-
ing its vast wildlife resources and of utilizing these resources rationally;
its policies are summarized in the Wildlife Conservation Act of 1974. The
national parks, game reserves and game controlled areas (25% of the country)
are among the best managed in East Africa. Animal inventories, research and
monitoring programs are carried out continuously and form the basis for game
cropping. Due to recent increases in animal population, hunting safaris have
been allowed since mid-1978 under special licenses and strict control. Sus-
tained yield management allows the country, through the commercial operations
of the Tanzania Wildlife Corporation, to earn foreign exchange from sales
of hides, skins and trophies. The Government attitude towards safeguarding
the wildlife resources is firm and it intends to continue to pursue policies



- 11 -
consistent with the preservation of wildlife resources (Section 3.08 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government has agreed that any
major changes in policies affecting wildlife preservation relating to
organization and staffing of anti-poaching units, licensing of hunting, and
dealing in and exporting of trophies will be submitted to the Association in
sufficient time to enable it to comment on them (Section 3.08 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).  The Government has built up and maintains
substantial antipoaching forces which will be strengthened under the proposed
project (para 45); it also imposes stiff penalties on convicted poachers.
Contributions of Tourism to the Economy
35.       According to figures published by the Bank of Tanzania, foreign
exchange earnings from tourism rose from TSh 80 million (US$11 million 1/)
in 1969 to TSh 119 (US$15 million 1/) in 1972. By 1976, foreign exchange
earnings from tourism had fallen to TSh 88 million (US$11 million). Foreign
exchange earnings in 1976 represented 2% of total exports and 0.4% of GNP
compared to 4% and 1.1%, respectively, in 1972. By comparison, Kenya, with
similar tourist attractions, earned over US$100 million from tourism in 1976,
representing 9% of exports and 3% of GNP. Employment in hotels in Tanzania
was estimated at approximately 4,500 in 1977. Direct employment in tourist
activities other than hotels (airlines, national parks, travel agencies, tour
operators, handicrafts) is estimated at an additional 4,500, bringing the
total direct employment generated by tourism to 9,000.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
36.       In October 1976, at the request of the Government, a project identi-
fication mission from the Bank Group prepared terms of reference for a study
of the measures required for rehabilitating and increasing the utilization
of existing tourist facilities in Tanzania. Funds for this study were made
available through the IDA Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 601-TA) and
proposals from four consulting firms were received in March 1977. Later in
the year, Coopers and Lybrand, in cooperation with Norman and Dawbarn, was
chosen to conduct the study. The consultants completed the study in early
1978 and the project was appraised in March 1978. Negotiations were held in
Washington in October 1978 where the Government delegation was led by Mr. J.
Sepeku, Principal Secretary in MNR&T. The Staff Appraisal Repcrt for this
project is being circulated separately. A Credit and Project Summary is
included at the beginning of this Report and the Supplemental Data Sheet is
given in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
37.       The proposed project is designed to assist the GoverrLment in its
efforts to reverse the deterioration in tourist facilities and services
1/   At the then prevailing exchange rate.



- 12 -
since the early 1970s, thereby reestablishing LouLism as ULI imporLaliL ioreign
exchange earning industry in Tanzania. Specifically, hotels would be re-
habilitated, adequate hotel training provided, the promotion of Tanzania's
tourist attractions intensified, anti-poaching activities strengthened,
and transportation infrastructure improved. The improvements to be brought
about by the project will provide a basis for the full utilization of
Tanzania's present tourist facilities.
38.       The project would consist of the following components:
(a) urgent and essential works and equipment required to
bring seven hotels and five lodges owned and operated
by TTC to appropriate operating standards;
(b) technical assistance to TTC in the fields of hotel main-
tenance, marketing, hotel supplies, hotel communications
and project administration;
(c) preparation of promotional material and marketing
campaigns aimed at the tourist travel trade;
(d) construction, furnishing and equipping, and technical
assistance for a new Hotel and Tourism Training Institute
(HTTI) in Dar es Salaam;
(e) equipment for the anti-poaching units within the
national parks; and
(f) improvements to the terminal building of the Dar es
Salaam Airport to provide better facilities for
international arrivals and departures.
39.       Hotel Rehabilitation:  Because of poor maintenance, failure to carry
out essential repairs, and lack of spare parts or technical ability to keep
major equipment in working condition, TTC's hotels and lodges are no longer
offering the quality of accommodation and service they were designed for.
With many of TTC's hotels on the verge of a breakdown in operations, the
hotels' buildings and technical plants require immediate major rehabilitation.
This component would provide for (i) external works, comprising site develop-
ment and urgently needed roof improvements; (ii) improvement of plumbing
installations, repair or replacement of electrical installations, overhaul of
air conditioning and heating systems, improvement of boiler plants, overhaul
of water and sewage treatment plants, and repair or replacement of equipment
in kitchens, laundry and service areas; (iii) improvement or replacement of
finishes, furniture and fittings in public areas and guestrooms; (iv) staff
housing; and (v) vehicles essential for the operation of hotels and lodges.
40.       An essential link in the implementation of this component is that
the rehabilitated hotels be properly maintained after project completion.
In order to ensure that deficiencies in maintenance and deterioration of
facilities are not allowed to recur, TTC's expenditure for the repair and



- 13 -
maintenance would, by December 31, 1981, reach at least 6% of hotel sales or
2% of the current value of TTC's principal fixed assets, whichever is higher
(Section 3.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
41.       Technical Assistance to TTC:  While overall TTC's management is
adequate, several of the operating departments within TTC need strengthening.
Therefore, fifteen man-years of specialists' services (in the fields of
engineering, marketing, supply and distribution and reservation and communica-
tions) would be provided to TTC under the project at a cost estimated at about
US$45,000 per man-year.
42.       Marketing:  Because of lack of marketing expenditures since the
early 1970s, substantial amounts are needed over the project period to pro-
vide the Marketing Department of TTC with adequate supplies of promotional
materials as well as funds for campaigns aimed at the tourist travel trade.
Financing for these purposes was included in the project because intensive
marketing efforts are viewed as essential to the success of the project.
43.       Hotel and Tourism Training Institute:  The facilities of the pro-
posed new HTTI would accommodate over 130 trainees and include general purpose
classrooms, a language laboratory, workshops and demonstration rooms, a
library, administrative offices and a practice hotel with 30 bedrooms (the
minimum suitable size for training purposes). The practice hotel would be
open to the public and would function commercially with all the departments
and services generally found in international three-star hotels. Various
sites for the HTTI within Dar es Salaam are under consideration, and the final
location would be determined in consultation with the Association (Section
3.02(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). To ensure that HTTI will
have adequate funds for its operation, the Government has agreedl to undertake
a study on how the operation of HTTI could be financed and inform the Asso-
ciation on its results by December 31, 1980, (Section 3.02(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
44.       Technical assistance will be essential for the success of the HTTI.
Therefore, the project would provide funds for teachers, a senior advisor on
hotel training and scholarships for teacher training. The head teacher would
be nominated by December 31, 1979, and all experts funded under the project
for HTTI would be suitably qualified and experienced and appointed on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association (Section 3.02(e) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). In total, this component would provide for
18 man-years of internationally recruited specialists at a cost estimated at
about US$45,000 per man-year as well as 20 man-years of fellowships.
45.       Anti-Poaching Equipment.  Until recently, poaching did not pose a
serious threat to Tanzania's wildlife resources. However, in the past two
years there has been increasing incidence of well-armed poachers; the Govern-
ment has responded by strengthening its anti-poaching activities. To support
these activities, the project will provide the necessary vehicles and equip-
ment for the anti-poaching units of TANAPA and NCA. To assist in monitoring
the effectiveness of this anti-poaching component, a report dealing with



- 14 -
the wildlife situation in Tanzania and the results of anti-poaching activities
will be furnished annually to the Association (Section 3.08 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
46.       Terminal Building at Dar es Salaam Airport:  This component is
a stopgap solution to alleviate the present problems in the arrival and
departure of passengers which will multiply as tourist and general traffic
increases. The project would provide funds for the construction of a new
international passenger building adjacent to the existing terminal building:
it would be a single-story, light structure that could easily find alternative
use should a new terminal building be constructed at some time in the future.
The component would also include the installation of luggage conveyors and
equipment for moving luggage to and from the aircraft.
Cost Estimates and Financing
47.       The total cost of the project net of taxes and duties is estimated
at US$18.3 million; US$14.0 million in foreign exchange expenditures and
US$4.3 million in local expenditures. Cost estimates are based on the con-
sultants' studies (para 36), updated to March 1978; they include physical
contingencies of 10% on civil works, furniture and equipment, and price
contingencies totaling 26% of base costs. The average rehabilitation cost per
hotel room is estimated at US$8,500 excluding contingencies. Consultants
services required for the designs for the hotel rehabilitations, the HTTI, and
the airport terminal building are estimated at 37 man-years at an average of
US$30,000 equivalent per man-year.
48.       The financing plan provides for an IDA Credit of US$14.0 million,
77% of project cost net of taxes; this is equivalent to the foreign exchange
cost of the project. The Government would contribute US$4.3 million equiva-
lent (excluding taxes and customs duties). IDA funds would be channeled
through the Ministry of Finance to (i) TTC for the hotel rehabilitation,
marketing and technical assistance components; (ii) MNR&T for HTTI; (iii)
TANAPA and NCA for the anti-poaching equipment; and (iv) Ministry of Works for
the international passenger terminal building at the airport. The funds for
hotel rehabilitation would be passed on by the Ministry of Finance to TTC
under a subsidiary loan agreement which would be on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association including an interest rate of 10% per annum for
16 years including 4 years of grace (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). 1/
Project Implementation
49.       Overall project coordination will be vested in the office of the
Principal Secretary, MNR&T. The project would be implemented in about four
1/   These terms are consistent with prevailing loan term in Tanzania.  The
average inflation rate for Tanzania in the 1975-77 period was 13% as
measured by the consumer price index but inflation moderated to about 10%
in early 1978 and is expected to continue to fall over the next three
years.



- 15 -
years with an expected completion date of December 31, 1982. The hotel
rehabilitation component would be executed by contractors under the supervi-
sion of TTC personnel. As the extent of the hotel rehabilitation works
involved would put an excessive strain on existing TTC manpower, a qualified
and experienced Project Coordinator to oversee the rehabilitation work would
be appointed by April 30, 1979 (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
The construction of the HTTI will be performed by contractors under the
supervision of the Ministry of Works, and its operations would come under the
supervision of the MNR&T. The design and construction of the terminal building
at Dar es Salaam Airport will be performed by contractors under the supervision
of the Ministry of Works, Roads and Aerodromes Division. Once completed,
operation and maintenance of this facility will be entrusted to the Airport
Services Section of the Ministry of Works. All technical assistance required
for the project and financed by the Credit would be carried out by qualified
and experienced personnel on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion (Section 3.02 (e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section
2.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       Contracts for civil works, furniture, fixtures, equipment and
vehicles would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement, except (i) civil
works contracts costing US$250,000 equivalent or less (up to US$2.4 million
in total); (ii) furniture, fixtures and equipment contracts costing less than
US$100,000 equivalent each (up to US$1.5 million in total); and (iii) spare
parts for equipment already installed in hotels and lodges (up to US$0.3 mil-
lion in total). Contracts for items (i) and (ii) would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with local procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Association. Spare parts for exisl:ing equip-
ment would be purchased directly from manufacturers or distributors. In
evaluating civil works bids, domestic contractors would be allowed a 7.5%
preference. Qualified domestic manufacturers of furniture, fixtures and
equipment would be granted a preferential margin in bid evaluation equal to
the prevailing tariff, or 15% of the c.i.f. cost of imports, whichever is
lower.
51.       Disbursement would be on the basis of (i) 65% of total expenditures
for civil works; (ii) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported furniture,
fixtures, equipment and vehicles; 75% of local expenditures for such imported
items when procured locally; 100% of ex-factory costs of such items when manu-
factured locally; (iii) 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expendi-
tures for consultant services; (iv) 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of
local expenditures for technical assistance and fellowships; and (v) 100% of
foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures on marketing. In order to
facilitate the delivery of urgently needed equipment for various hotels, up to
US$400,000 for expenditures incurred on these items after October 1, 1978
would be eligible for retroactive financing.



- 16 -
Accounting and Insurance
52.       Separate project accounts would be maintained by the various
Government agencies involved in the project and TTC (Section 3.06 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 4.01(b) of the draft Project
Agreement). The financial statements for each TTC subsidiary, consolidated
financial statements for TTC and the separate project accounts would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the reports
of such audit would be submitted to the Association within six months of the
end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Presently, TTC's accounts are adequately maintained; the quality of its
accounting procedures has improved significantly over the past three years.
53.       Because the operations of HTTI will generate substantial revenues,
it is important that proper accounting procedures be observed. Therefore,
it has been agreed that an accounting system, acceptable to the Association,
would be installed in HTTI six months before its expected opening and annual
audited financial statements for the HTTI would be submitted to the Asso-
ciation within six months of the end of each fiscal year (Section 3.02(c) and
(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
54.       Present TTC insurance coverage, which is based primarily on initial
investment cost, exposes TTC to potentially large losses in the event of
extensive damage to one or more hotels. Therefore, TTC's Board has decided
to reappraise all major fixed assets; the initial reappraisal of assets is
expected to be completed by September 30, 1979 and thereafter TTC shall
adjust coverage periodically as asset values change.
Current and Forecast Financial Position of TTC
55.       Consolidated income statements show that TTC and subsidiaries
combined operated close to the breakeven point during 1974-76. However, in
the wake of the border closure with Kenya, losses increased sharply to about
TSh 13.2 million in 1977 and an estimated TSh 13.3 million in 1978. While TTC
has a reasonable debt-to-equity ratio of 47/53 (largely because of sizable
Government infusions of funds), its current position is weak with negative net
working capital of about TSh 30 million, a current ratio of about 0.6 to 1,
and a debt service coverage of only 2.2.
56.       Reflecting the difficult liquidity situation, TTC was past due on
about TSh 15.3 million in principal payments and TSh 9.5 million in interest
charges involving six loans as of December 31, 1977. The Serengeti Safari
Lodges, Ltd. (SSLL), a fully-owned TTC subsidiary which was particularly
affected by the closure of the border, accounted for about TSh 19.5 million,
or about 80%, of the overdue payments. The Government has decided to assume
responsibility for SSLL's overdue principal and interest payments and has
confirmed that the actions needed to implement this decision will be taken by
the end of calendar year 1978.



- 17 -
57.       According to the financial projections made by ASSoci;LLiua staff,
TTC will continue to face a very tight liquidity position until 1982. There-
fore, while the financial projections suggest that no additional Government
subventions would be required after 1979, the Government has agreed to provide
TTC the funds necessary for any capital expenditures in excess of TSh 2
million per fiscal year if these expenditures are not financed through new
long-term borrowing by TTC and if TTC's consolidated current ratio after such
expenditures falls below 1.1 to 1 (Section 3.03(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement and Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Justification
58.       Without the major rehabilitation proposed, TTC's hotels would con-
tinue to deteriorate and some hotels and lodges would be forced to close due
to equipment failures or as their occupancy rates reach uneconomic levels.
By rehabilitating the hotels, improving tourism infrastructure and tourism
training, and providing adequate marketing for Tanzanian tourism, the project
would provide the framework for a significant growth in tourism revenues.
59.       The main source of project benefits would be increased visitor
traffic to Tanzania resulting in higher occupancy rates for hotels and lodges
and therefore greater total expenditures by holiday and business visitors
(while expenditures outside the hotels were not taken into account in the
economic analyses, foreign visitors will spend considerable additional
amounts on transportation, park fees, curios, etc.). A second source of
benefits would arise from projected increases in room rates. These increases
are justified because after the hotels are renovated they will offer improved
services and because prices are higher at competing destinations which offer
similar attractions. In view of this, TTC would prepare, and submit to the
Association by December 31, 1979, a study examining the feasibility and
magnitude of real rate increases at its hotels and lodges and recommend
policies and procedures for future TTC tariff rate decisions (Section 3.05
of the draft Project Agreement). Reflecting both increased occupancy rates
and room rates, it is projected that with the project TTC should by 1983
be able to generate internally sufficient funds to cover all debt service
and operating costs, achieve an adequate liquidity and debt structure, and
have a net income of about TSh 22 million (US$2.8 million). This net income
would represent a return of 11.6% on equity and 6% on book value of total
assets employed.
60.       The economic rate of return for the hotel rehabilitation component
(about 60% of project costs) has been calculated at 22%, ranging from 10 to
32% for individual hotels. A broader rate of return concept which includes
(a) the cost of the tourist road to the northern wildlife area lodges; (b) 45%
of the costs of marketing and 45% of the cost of HTTI (in line with TTC's
share of the total hotel capacity in Tanzania); (c) the costs of technical
assistance to the TTC; (d) the benefits to a new TTC hotel not needing reha-
bilitation (Mt. Meru Hotel in Arusha); and (e) the cost and benefits asso-
ciated with the new airport terminal building, results in an ecorLomic rate of
return of 21%.



- 18 -
61.       Net annual foreign exchange receipts resulting from the project will
total over US$3 million by 1985 and over US$4 million by 1990. An average of
about 72% of the foreign exchange receipts earned from this project will be
retained in Tanzania. Although the basic thrust of the project is to maximize
the use of existing facilities and increase foreign exchange earnings, the
project also has employment benefits. The project is expected to generate 600
construction jobs in the project period. Furthermore, about 450 jobs will be
created or saved in TTC as a result of the hotel rehabilitation, and a similar
number of jobs will be added to in related activities such as shops, travel
agencies, parks and transportation services. The total rehabilitation
cost per direct job created or saved is about US$12,000.
Project Risks
62.       The project's greatest risk involves the question of whether the
projections of tourist flows can be attained. A second risk involves the
managerial capability of TTC to effectively implement the project.
63.       On the issue of tourist flows, there is no question that Tanzania
has the attractions to draw substantially greater numbers of tourists.
However, as the projections assume that European and North American tour
operators will again schedule package tours to Tanzania it will be necessary
to ensure that the problems which formerly deterred them are adequately
addressed. As some of the previous difficulties have already been acted
upon by the Government (in particular the clarification of the Government's
support for the sector), and as a number of the other major constraints
are being focused on under the proposed project we believe the projected
tourist flows are realistic. With regard to the issue of implementation
capacity, adequate technical assistance is being provided to those areas of
TTC where weaknesses have been identified. In view of these steps it has
been concluded that this project can achieve its objective of providing a
basis for rehabilitating Tanzania's tourism industry.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and TTC and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Features of the draft Development Credit and Project Agreements of
special interest are given in Section III of Annex III to this report.
Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and TTC
would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).



- 19 -
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 29, 1978



ANNEX I
-~ 20 -Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RBFERZXCZ GROUPS (ADJUSTED A5RACES
LAND ARtA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)                   TAMI.0IA                        - HOST RECENT FST7LATE)
TOTAL            945.1                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT HICHER
AGRICULTURAL     508.3                                 3DST RECzr       CEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 tb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /k   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
CNP PFR CAPITA (US$)                   70.0 Lf    110.0 Lf  200.0 Lf         223.6       182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMiS UF COAL EQUIVALENT)     41.0         62.0      69.0             86.7        88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL S'ATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(KILLIONS)                         9.6 /f      12.9 Li   15.5 /f
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  4.6          5.5        7.3             13.6       15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        10.0        14.0       16.0             18.4       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. XK. AGRICULTURAL LAND      20.0        26.0       30.0            53.6       254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.5 1Lf,    44.4 Lb   46.7            44.4        43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                         55.5 Lfa   53.0 /h   50.9               52.7        53.3        52.8
65 Y2S. AND ABOVE                    2.0 .LLR    2.6 /h    2.4              2.8         2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROUTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.3         3.0 Lf    2.7 /f           2.6         2.4         2.7
URBAN                               5.0         5.6        7.5 li          5.8         4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      51.5        50.5       47.0            46.9        44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PERETHOUSAND)      27.1        23.0       20.1            20.6        19.7         12.4
GROSS RZPROIJUCTION RATE               ..         3.2        3.3             3.1         2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPtORS. ANNLiL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCEIJT OF KARRIED  MKHEN)    ..         ..         ..             2.5        14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              91.6       100.0      107.5            94.2        96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQURL-FNTS)                     69.0        88.0      86.0             90.1        92.3        99,5
PROTFINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           42.0        43.0      47.1             55.2        50.0        56.8
OF W1ICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        22.0 Li     23.0       20.0            17.1        13.9        17.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTAI.ITV RATE       ..           ..        ..               ..         ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.7         41.8       44.5            43.7        45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           190.0       160.0 /h      ..           138.4       102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAiE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATICN)
TOTAL                                ..        13.0      39.0             22.4        26.4        31.1
URBAN                                ..        61.0      88.0             66.3        63.5        68.5
R'JRAL                               ..         9.0       36.0            10.4        14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRYrA DISPCSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..       17.0            23.9        16.1        37.5
URBAN                                ..          ..      88.0             70.3        65.9        69.5
RURAL                                ..          ..       14.0            14.2         3.4        25.4
POPULATIOI PER PIIYSICIAN         21750.0]f.k 21570.0 ff20760.0 1!       21757.5    13432.7       9359.2
VOPUILATTON PER NHIRSDIC PERSON    9240.6?il  4890.0 If 3180.0 If        3473.8     6CS3.3       2762.5
POPUI.ATION PER HOSPITAL BED
IXTAL                             570.0/f,k   700.0 Lf      ..           645.4     1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..           172.9       183.3       278.4
kURAL                                ..          ..         ..          1292.6     1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..         ..            19.2        19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE 0  UOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         4.4 /h      ..             4.9        5.2
URBAN                                *-         3.2/        .              5.0        4.8
RURAL                                ..         4.51,                      4.7        5.3
AVERAGE NUtlBE'R OF PERSONS PER ROOm
lOYAL                                ..          ..        ..               .           ..
lURBAN                              1.8 .        ..        ..               ..         1.8         2.3
RURAL.                               ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DIT L!LLNCE)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..       25.9         28.3
URhAN                                ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..        8.7         10.3



21  -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET             Page  2  of 5
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
TANZANIA                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
HDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 k      1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb      REGION tc  GROUP Ld    GROUP te
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 24.0        35.0      57.0            52.1       62.9        75.8
FEMALE               16.0        28.0      46.0            37.6       45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  2.0         3.0       3.0             8.0       14.4        17.7
FEMALE                1.0         2.0       2.0             5.0        B.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 23.0          ..        ..             7.2        6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TUACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           45.0        47.0      53.0            43.2       38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                         20.0        19.0      20.0            22.8       19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        9.5        28.1 th   49.0 1n         20.3       36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPIULTION                         3.0         2.5       2.6             3.9        3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0        11.0      16.0            40.1       31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.3        ..             2.2        2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION   -      ~       3.0         5.0       3.0             3.9        6.0        16.3
CINE?A ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER.CAPITA  0.5          ..        ..             1.2        1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    4900.0 Jo   5600.01f.h6300.0 tn
FDKALE (PERCENT)                  37.1        36.6      36.3            32.6       24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             96.0 /o     91.Otf.h  83.1            73.3       60.7        54.1
IWIXISTRY (PERCENT)               3.8          5.0       ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               44.7        43.5      42.2            42.0       39.8        37.8
MALE                                56.9        55.7      54.3            54.8       53.3        50.3
DEKALE                              32.8        31.5      30.3            27.3       19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1 to      1. 2jL h   1.2            1.2        1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY                                                                                         -
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        33.5        ..            25.7       20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        63.3        ..            55.1       45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         2.3        ..             5.8        5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS     ..         7.8        ..            14.5       16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCQME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    117.0            108.8       88.5       155.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      89.0            74.1       71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UlBmN                               ..          ..     146.0           124.4      100.8       143.7
RMRAL                               ..          ..      45.0            59.6       42.0        87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      25.0            26.8       46.0        22.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      85.0            47.6       48.0        36.7
Not svailable
Not applicable.
NOTES
Le   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-veighted geooetric means. excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
1b   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betveen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estinate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c   Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Low Incom  ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e Lower Middle Income
($2B1-550 per capita, 1976);  /f  Mainland Tanzania;  JI  1957;  /h  1967;  Li  1967-73;  LI  1961-63;
k  1962;   /1 Registered, not all practice In the country;  La  1958, Zanzibar only;   a  1972;  Jo  1963.
September 1978



-22-                                                      ANNEX I
DE      F NMMS OF  1!y',:cATORS                           Page   3   of   5
a!:5:  Altb,-ch the itt. are dr.-  f,ri soo~res generally Judged the most authoritative  and  ntal.it shcnl  sin- be noted they then sta  not be inter
nat.ionally c             ......e ecus  of th, lack At standardi-d defielitona  And  acncpts used bv diff-ren   -ounries  it: cill1ecttne  the dots.  Th. d.t. are. nonetheLss..
-ef,al to de-criha cr-r  ofAt ontie  indicate treeds, .nd characterize tertain naf.r differences e.e.                       ctcis
T'he uliu-td ue,,p -......a for each indicator are popolatlon-veightod gec-eAecric . .tl. ee .cludicg the eu'rren -aue of the indicator and the moat
populat-d        " r  in -0t grc.  (r-rcae of --;tri.a  -amng the indicators depe-ds on .av .iailftv oF inta  an,d In not utIfom.  Doe to lack nf data.
groupevrus   for Capital  unveOil Eopo"rter  and indicators of accese to eater end  .corst. disposal1, hoosinA. Inton  distribution and paosrty sr.
alepls  uontu-e  atdg.uetric  -ens  itcheot the  slea  of entrees Values.
LA).lf AitEA (t- .u.and .-.. kn)                                                           POoclati.n par hoptLbcd - totl.1 urban. and rural - Population  (total,
Totc, - Tots: surfce urns ...eprlsing land aera and inland ..ters.                           reban. And rcurl) divIded by th.ir respective cuohb' of hospital beds
Aelutr:- Most recent estimate of agricultural ares used temporarily                  a-ailable in publIc and private gener al ardepoalnd   hospital and re-
ot pere-anrtly for crops. psacorea, market and kitchen gardens or to                       habilitation Centern.  Hfospitals are ent.blishn... L  permanently stoffed by
IIe  follow,                                                                              at least one physlica.  lEtablishoent. providing prrincipally custodial
tare,are not.aintuIled.  Rurslhoptes  howevr, Incolde health and .edi-
GilP FER CAPIC.A (US-$) - lIP per capita estimates at corrent market pricea.                  Ca Ienters no  per.....tly at.ffed by a phyail.ln (but by a me*dical se-
calculatel hy same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 heals);                 isiecat. nurse.  1dvlfe, setc.) whIch offer le-pocinot accommodation and
1960, 1910, arid 1917 data.                                                               prooida a limited conga of radical facilitIes.
Admissions Per hospital hod - lotal number of sosiesio.s to or discharge.
ENERGY COSuforp10TlO  PER CAPITA - Annual.. c touptio. of t aonertial energy                 from hospitals dinid.d by the number of beds.
(coal aid  i.igmt.. petroleum  nacurol gs.  and hydro-, nucloar And Sao-
thermal olactricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     mousiNGc
Anrlg  ala,x of house.hold (persons per householdi - total, urban, and rural-
POPCI;ATIGii 1'.71 VITAL STATISITCS                                                           A household ronaists of a group of individuals  oh. share lining qoarters
'rotal pop,la:liri. eli-year 1ilIllons) - Ad of July 1; if sot Available,                   and their -in mas   A hoarder or lodger may or map  ot he Included In
an.Srag  uu tw  onen-year estimate.; 1960. 1970. and 1977 data,                           the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical deftitltoa of house-
Urban populu:Ion (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popule-                       hold nary.
tlan; different definitions of urban areas may affsect comparability                    Average number of persons Per room - total, urban, end roral - Average nun-
of dare  -ong countries.                                                                  bar of per""n  per rom. ic all, urban, and roral occuapied conventional.
Popu,l&tIoc density                                                                         dwellings. respectinaly.  Duelling. antlude noo-parmanmnr structuoree and
Pe,  sq. ho     M id-y.ar population par equater  kiloeater (110 bactaras)                 unoccuepied parts.
of total area.                                                    Stress to electrIcIty~~~~~Ae  prcen  of duelllntsg) -vtotal, urba, and rural -
Par so.ho  agrIcult le lnd - Compurad as shove for agricultural leand               Co oinldelnswt   ltrct   nlvn    u rtesa   erecg
only.                                                                                     of total. urban. and rural dealinig. respectively.
Pop:latIon aes structure (percent) - Children, (0-li years), wrtoking-age
(13-64 Y-sar)  and ratired (65 years end over) as percentages of aid-                EDUCATioN
,aa  pouton                                                                            AdJust.d enolmnratios
PopultIon  rovehnate(portent) - t.tal. and urban - Compoud snnual                   Priary scol-toa,ed female - Total end fenala serollmant of all ages
growth rates of total end urban aId-year pnp.lscions for 195D-60.                          r ths prImr  lee  aan Pe tOi 5 of respectiVely.prma&ry scbolag
1960-70~..ad 19yQ70                                                                       pouaizns; c0arnally iclde  chlre    ge    -I   eashlt adjutedfo
Crude birt  r.at  (Per thousand) - Annul lIve birtha par thousand of                        differant lengths of primary educ.tion; for coutries  Izth universa  eda-
aid-yearppualm   tee-pear snithnonc  -neragas ending In 1960 end                          cation. anrolleent may emceed 100 percen.t sLots some pupils are below or
1970 and fits-year average endieg in 1975 for mast cacent estimate.                        -abv  the official school age.
Crdedet  rotea(per thousandi - Annual deaths par thousand of mid-                   Sacendary school - total, ard female - Computed as ahoves; secondary educa-
?ear popul.tio.; tee-year aritheetic. averages ending In 1960 And 1970                    tIon requires at least fear yearsr  of approved primay lnstru,ctdol  to.-
end fiv--oar ve...age ending in 1975 for most rc.ast estimate.                            Vldes gesaral v'caIonal, or teacher training iostruotions for puplsa
Genes raprofutticnrt,          veaenme  o   agtr  a vomn -ill bear                          usually of 12 to 17 yeara of &g.; correspondence courses are generally
in her nuoa-l tepr dutlne perio  If, absp*riencas present age-                            secluded.
specifIc fertilIty rates; usually fle-ya  aerages ending in 1960,                       Vocational enrollesnt (percent of secondary) - fiocational Lostltutiona  in-
1970.  d   973.                                                                           dude tehlcal, industrial, or other progrsme which operate independently
Famiy olcyitg -acceptors. anniual. (thasaands) - Annul number of                       ora  dpartmanta of secondary  lotiiuciOriO.
acceptors of hicth-csntrol. devices under iuspicea of national. family                 Puooh-teacher ratio - prim."y. and secondary - Total wtudeato enrolled in
piniug;og .Primary and secondary levels divided by  usbers of teachers in the corres-
Famly, aanulne.  .. usrs (e.arcat of marri.d comae) - Per-ent.ge of                         epoidinglels
maried  -oem of child-hearing age (15-41  pears) vho use birth-control                 Adult literacy rcac  (Percent) - Literate adults (able to read and wnts) as
devices to all married somma  in asame age group.                                         a Percentage of total adult population, egd 19 years amA ovr.
FM0  ANDO lfl.TVION                                                                      c0wsCOaTiON
Index of f     pd roduction por capita (1970..100) -Index camber af par                  Passenger ears (par thousand population) - Passen.ger toar  comprise water cars
capia anual  redctio  of  ll,food comeoditla.S.                                stIng less them eight personsl  "exludes ambulances, hearses and military
Prcactssupl oclres(renof renulrssments) - Computed from,                                  eicle.
;aargy equivalent of met food supplies  -vil.ebl. in country per capita               Rladio receivers (per tho...sand tplopltIon) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  vA-lblaba supplies Comprise domestic production. imports lass                broadcasts to general public per thousand of porulatic,nI axcludes unlicensed
mperts. and cheages in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed. seeds.                 re...iveks In countri.a and In years  ,'hen registration of radio sets woe Ic
quatitles used in fond processing, sod losses is distribution.  Re-                     effect; data fer recent pears nay cat be comparable since mast countriee
wulemets .era estimated by tAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
ol actitity an  health considsring .evircr.encatl. temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thoue...d populatIon) - TV receivers for broadcast to generA
"Seihts . age and see distributions of populatIon.  and allo-Ieg 10 per--                 public per thousand Population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers i. coon-
cant for wuste at houSehold level,                                                        tries and In years shoe registration of TV set. was in effect.
Par capita -upplyo  proteIn lorrd:s. Pet day) - Protein content of per                   Nestenacer cirolation  (per choosa..d population) - Sh-v  the anerage circula-
capita ne:sppyo  food par day.   et eu pply of fond ts defined as                         tlan of "daily general icteceet n.top.per", defined as a periodical publi-
abv.Requiremnts far all countries  setebllshed by USDA provida for                   cationt dsvoted primarily to recording general nests.  It is considared to
a  inlau= alose  aeo  60 gta.a of total protein per day end 20 gremsa                   be "daily" If it appeacs at least four close a ..eak.
of auleau and pulse protein, of which 10 gras. should be  nia  protein.               Cinema annual attendac  net&oa  capita car ceac - Baaad os the cumber of tiuketa
Th'a se-ut9drd. are la.er than these of 75 grame of total protein and                     so ld during the pear. incloding  doissiona to drive-ic cinemas. and mabils
23grams of .nina  Protein as An avecage for the world, proposed by                        anita.
peFAO in theThid 'ord    d Survey.
Pe tap . Ir=tl suply from animal and pulse - Proteins supply of fond              DlIfV)tomn
dar 1ed i-c  aelna.u and pulses in grama Par day.                                     Total labor farce (thousands) - Economically active persons. i.oluding armed
CIld:lo.. _-k) mrat  rt   prhosn)- Annrual deaths par th.us-                               fortes sad unemployed but eotludieg housaives..suet,at    eli
and in  sge group 1-4 years. to children 10 this age group.                               tins in various cauntries ace not Comparable.
Pemle  perept   -Femal  labor force se p.rosotase of total labor force.
HLALli                                                                                     eiulue(Hret    Labor for.. In farming,  forestry, bunting san  fishing
Life epeectunc  at birth (years) - A-nanag  nunber of yeaars of life                        a. p-rceatage of total labor force.
renicn  atbirth; usually five-year averagee ending In 1960. 1970.                    Indouste (percent) - Labor force in minIng. co...tr-ctin. mwanufaccurieg and
and 1975.                                                                                 eleracrtcly. v-ter and gan as perneu.ctge sf total labor farce.
Infant nortalttt  rata (p.r thous..And) - AnnualI deaths of infests under               Particiato-rt  leooS  -ttal. "ae adfml      oa,mlo. a.d
one year 01 age per thousand lice hirhts.                                                 feaelbo oc  as.percentages of their respecie Ppula tensd.
Accessto sul  canerfoercnt of  orolaton) -total. urbc. end rural -              hese are (LO's ad)tod pa rticiPation ra tes reflcIngn-e
Nu.bec of ;eopl. (total,   ran  and. roca) wIth resonable acess  tstroctarn of the pooaio.ad long tiee treed.
safewter PPuppip (Incue  tr seae  sorfaca waters or  .Ctreated hot                     cnotcder,ndsnn ratio - Ratio of populatioe under IS and 63 And o.. r to
0acotantvted water such ao that iron prot.cted bocaholan, nyrings.                     the labor force in age group of 15-h4 pears.
and sanitary wellst as per-etagen of their r.oeepcti" populationa..
.0  -s urba  ae a,,  poblifo f    ulor scadpasc loca.ted Aca.r.mn                    INCOME DISTRT3,TI0N
theAo Ci cate~rs ftcn a h-use may bs oonaid-te  as hbet8 within tea-                  Percentage of prln-tel.       e(loth in cash end bind) r.eceivd by rIchest 5
Arnheass   f Oc,t                       IIose.In rucl area   raoAhis aoccen  woul..d     percent. richeuc 2i percent. poorest 20 percent. and poteat 40 perccant
icblp cia:th  ho     tf  or  ember  of the  houohld'do ct huts tO                       of households.
spend a t-uyroprottloata part of th. day in fetching the family's
__'n, -   '                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POycoTyY TARi'PT CROVPS
AC---. to   z octa douoo~,al 'rrceic o  ptutip- to-al, urban, and                        Isloe   couepcryboeiclls  ret  -caital -  cbhor and n-t.lI
fue      a   P~y -l,I.t-tal, urban. otA roca I) ... led by ...tauslueromt  invrtt      1is cha  ioone linte  h.lco whi.h a aciuui.
Ouyools;rscaoutuorrsycospplttn. Rcenatricfcci.y adequate J-b- plus e.sentisl non-load reqalteeanta is not
dIPoa  ca   oS-   h  oieto                  diaynai 1 lth owithou .fford.bl..
11t.eonon    of h--s.  -nocst  end  osewtrby  aa-on  systems                          Esimte   CoA$,opvor                     ee  (USS  .rec -ois) - urban arid rural-
or the ~u   f pit pliolas  Aod s.lollr losal.t... lcive yan-rty Iv                                               1oI,u-ol 1JI  that ic...e 1-n1 les. than one-third
_n.: kcC  t~!j cbsoa-  ,P,p';itio   di-J.id b, ouaoar of p ...tiulca                      p...a.t yero1s tons. of the  -onrn-
'-non, n, 4ualItod  tr ..asdicl1 -ohol At unl-ratry level.                   -sfao#.uaas   'Iyo~t  nun   ee   trat) - urban and rurl 
Pouboioc  (Ir'urT.PeE-'  - Popu"l.ato   dividud by number of                          P-ttest of popuI.l.tIa  (urban and ruralf ch.  rO  either `absoLute poor" or
p-taO-cn..B  or.  l-nabo graduate nurses. prootiosi cre,And                               'rel.ti-e  poor" whi,hever is greater.
tonmlo ' a d ioir Jtat  IonIs



23 -
ANNEX I
7581004                                                              'Page  4  of  5
X1:vwGc 2IVfrl2fT 0414Sa
-,.d                          L9"-          L9~~~~~Ira47aea    19      874-  
ft...) ~ ~ ~~~~~g 4               L95          iLt          1977         1974         1908390                    94           1990        1944         1? L986.  i; a
L.  GM                                               2384.2       246.4.       2412.3       2737.6       2376.1       3024.3       3183.1       4137.2        531. 9         5.1          3.1x         5.1        108.8
2.  G4J.. tre 7m  at ted. 12.33                        74.9        -467          29.8a       tg 10.        23.0         -8.2        -421.       -802.1.       -14.1                        .            .,
4    3       -30***     f   I.-                            Mg591        2378.I1      2384         24.          299.         32.          3140.        403.          163.           483.3                     3.0         94.9
4. ~aa                                                811.1        756.         68.0o        7"43 .71     76.7I        8081.7       537.21        84.4        1288.1         3.6          4.0          33          22.3
3. b.rt  - "Lj                                       4.70.0        307.6        337.7        353.8        3 74.4       594. 7       620.3         798. 3      1041.1         3. 7         2.83         4.9         1.
6   tp.    -  T if .148.                            344.9        43.2         547.3        tI3          3.3          3W. s        3713         66 4.4       830            .           -4.           3.3          6.
7   eooe  C.  - TT odJaccd                          306.3        317.0        114.3         4L1         133          222          29.            1.           1.              
8.  2.6.1  C...lae                      2~~~~~~~~~~~~ 318.2 27.    201         2~383.       241.24       2346.4       3723.0       343.1.6      41294. L        .            4.3          4.,         so. 
9.2.e.                                              307.3        316.0        M5.4         34.4         4431.3       684.3        477.8        893.3       1113.0          6.3'         5.6          3.7         22.2
to.  M.fLsmI uense                                     195.3        240.6       3us.          538.5        492,8        314.9        303.9        484.4         94.8 S       0.0          -1.4          3.7         17.8
*    1.   ,a14  osrisa                                      I411         202.        2332.3        463.2        417.4        133.3        418. 1 -     53.3         84927T       -.0.7        -3.3           6. 9        16.3
12.   C   o     ra7                                   243         2333.        3764.8I       3387.8       39473.9      4,323.3      400.1        0814.1      1 6043.0
(Oe..   2   c197676 7l.c.a.
L.  t.-r                                               17.2         15.3.        13.          163I43                     67          17.1         19.3         22.8a         6.0          7.7 Y        3.0
2..cuLm                                                38.0         40.2         402          3.3          3.           367.0        37.3          34 .3        31.4         24           3.35.
3.    1a.44.a                                                       44.3         44.3         44.7         45.1         43.3         41.4         46.2          4.3         51.6          a.             .
mii (2874.76 - 201.3)
1.  7ao-  101:: :4...                                  99.1         90.7        122.6        127.2        129.3        132.4        133.3         177.8        243. 1         .          .4.36.
2  . Ier  Pric  744a                                   83.3        104.9        104. 7       L124.6        124.3       234.1         144.3        204.3        288.3o                     8.           7.
3.  fir       atr,. 144                               112.2         84.35       103.3        119.7        124.3         96.6          93.2         87.1         84.3
a. U2  3.41 .t..rf334                                94.1        103.3        125.6        123.0        137.1        143.2         133.3        214.4        201.3          .            .           7.3
3 .  4-5015  le.. ..l  (M0  7. 41501.303              7.14 LO       .414        8.373
16.   1974-76      1977-40      IMUtE
1. o238                                               3.9          4.3          4.1          4.1
2. m-n  fL-C.a.LCr                                    1.           3.4           1.1         3.7
2.  *n       0--.       *          Ir /               7.:3.         9.7         414.8'        14.9
4 .    nWp  384101  S.".34  uc  Z/                     13.2         10.3         17.4          16.6
3. *g431  388c40.  3*-U.4. R6                         3.1          33          -.              .
6.  rn.nat38w                            ~~~~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~23.  31.7  26.          24.1'
7   2.re.fl38P                        18.7        ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~2,1.3  20.9  u.I
0.I.int  m/y                                     3.2         1O. 9         6.2           7.41
1.                                                                           13RT  71
1.  7.abt into                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.0
2.    -7a1y      Or.ne)                                                108.2
2.1 A lSOtc                                                              91.2
2.3 001.                                                                     .
M(ftlhlae   Orlllna.)                               1363/84      1970/7l      1971/72      L972/73      1971/74      1974/73      19375/7      136/77
L    im    Nsa                                        718         1643         1008         2357         3023         3946          3919         4762
,:  . agre                                          402         1344         1431       .1937.         2808         2161         3302         4143
1.  .3rn   moa41t .                                   707         .631         1781          2223        2785         3941          2718         4400
I  an      n4c.ca                                  267          333          S4"          748          944         1361          1237
2             naa S.flse                              9           52           79          134          234          Its          203           3 6'2
-   'trot. set....                                                             34           62          214           377          643         1660
bYtIOflC  le9~~~~~~~.1ftt        ..           22~~~~5     117           194      __ 32            383A4                    2022
6   3-reljeea   C.Sla                                 238        - 89           604           36     6-      2       .222.L         123..        2709
7     3reIJfic L.2                                                       .8           .8 .         1130         1063          143         -7
2.t.n.   to                                      33          270          347          436          467          661
2arC-on                                        ,.          32           164           33          337           720
0--i. 3-ltqp  p ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~.a   3. 1974L



- 24 -
TANZAMU                                                 ANNEX I
3L6CE or              AnSLm FD  E-rs  .2 L .oSSIM7.4CZ                     Page   5   of   5
UOilo    S 33
1974         1975         L976         1977         1978         1979          .98O         1983         1990
A s1L9.y or 3A"4Cz O r.ATfP125
1.   ErPovca (tmci. IFS)                                         465.9        460.7        605.5         759.7        742.7        787.8        837.3       1402.9       2320.9
2.  t.Ptcs (tool. IllS)                                          779.0        793 .        727.9         352.8        970.5       1086.3       1213.3       7036.1        3429.2
3   R2m    c gallce                                             -313.1       -332.8       -122.4          93.0        227.8        298.3       -376.2        533.7       -90d.3
4.  lit Factor Servic  Inco_                                      -3.8 a      -10.3        -24.6        -21.1         -18.7        -21.0        -27.3        -75.3        -143.8
1.  Net inLacrc .7uats of Ahtch                              -U.6        -16.1         -18.8        -16.1        -13, 7       -16.0        -22.3         -65.3       -L33. 8
Lptresc o- .nb7X    6 & LT  .nu                      (-.34s      (-11.1)      (-L2.5)       (-1.1)       (-17.6)      (-20.2)      (-27.7)      (-79.1)    (-161.91
2.  Direct Icota Mm    ou.                                                                                                                   2
3.  8eare. *- Ltsccn  ('be)                                   (4.8         (5.8        (-5.8        (-5.0         (-5.0        (-5.0        (-5.0       (-10.0       (-10.0
4.  OtherFcco3S       tc.1nei-(7. 1    )                      (            (           (            (             (            (            (           (             (
5.  Current Mratmsrs (Ofec)                                       30.1         71.0         77.9          94.9        110.4        129.4        147.9        235.6         362.5
S.  Balnce on Cucrnt accom                                      -291.8       -272.1        -69.1        -19.2       -L36.1       -190.1        -2.55.7      -473.4       -689.6
7.   rivate Direct tav-.  .c                                      24.3         27.5         12.3          20.0         20.0         24.0         28.0         35.0          35.0
Publi. M & L7 Loans
S.  DOibu-.-c  11                                                143.1        229.9        116.8        215.8        187.2         271.6        315.3        528.2        818.S
9.  jorrciatzoi    1/                                            -14.9        -15.3        -15.3        -26.5        -27.3        -28.2         -41.S        *51 0         013  j
10.  Soc 0isburoncs 1/                                            128.2        214.6         101.3       L89.3        159.9         243.4        274.1         77 12       i
3)thr 04 1, Lo-n.
11.  u1.bursm-nt. 2/                                               18.2         19.9         11.6           7.2          4.7          1.2          0.6           0.3          0.0
U2.  .lmrtiLacimo  2/                                              -3.0         -3.2         -6.2         -7.1          -5.1         -S.2         -5.5         -5.3           3.0
L3.  lec 2Otsburs ncs ./                                           13.2          87             4           0.1         -0.4         -4.0         -4.9          -5.3          0.0
L4.  U.. of IMF Reo-r... 3/                                        46.3         28.6         24.3        -24.4          -9.0        -39.0        -20.3           0.0          0.0
L5.  Ooort-terS Capital Tr-aaction*                                Z4.1          0.0        -18.9          o.a           0.0          0.0          0.0           3.0 o.3
16.  ZapLtal  Mreosactios   o.e.i.                                -31.4        -54.0        -31.2          0.0           0.0          3.0          0.0          0.0           0.3
L7.  nSge L.  Pc-r.  (- - Lncra*a.)                                84.8         38.7        -24.2       -L65.8        -34.4         -34.3        -01.2        -33.3        -56.8
3.  GAMNTS A240 LOAN$S C:tQ1IMI12
1.  Official Crabt                                               100.0        187.9        123.7         100.0        109.0        118.8        129.5        199.3         306.6
2.  Total Vublic 8 & L. Loans                                    260.4         132.3        183.0        186.5        259.5        249.0        274.3        S46.3         703.4
2.1  DtR0                                                     65.0         30.0         37.0         38.0         62.5          44.0         49.0          9.9        128.6
2.2  L71A                                                     61.2         10.0         52.0         49.2         82.5          71.5         71.3         33.         24.4
Z.3  othar c  .itlateral                                       7.1         18.D          5.0         L0.0          :0.0         10.0         10.0         :0.0          10.3
2.4  Cnsrmssncs                                              127.1         94.3         77.3         99.6          99.2        !89.7        234.9        37$.3         574
of  tcb  centrally pLanned ecomise  4/                76.5           3.4           -           2.0          5.0         10.0          U3.0         15.0         i53
2.5  Supplier.                                                  -            -            -          10.0         11.4          13.0         L4.3         23.9         38.4
2.6  Fina-ci l rnotCimLom                                       -            -          11.7
2.7  8oude
2.a Public Loan.,  ...                                          -            -            -            -                   -            -         .         .
3.  ather 8 5 LT Loan. (Nhere ailab.)j/                            5.6          2.9          6.0            -            -            -            -             _            _
Z.   OFWDUM 1TT1
1.  2ramc  _Innt of total CSSaicors                               63.5         69.6         71.3         5.1           74.7          2.6         71.3         73.1
2.  Average  nctrtac (Perc-nt)                                     2.2          3.5          3.3         3.3            0.0          3.0          3.3          3.0           2.7
;.  A-ara%. mcturity (Y.rS)                                       32           42           36          35            36            36           36           36           ;6
1.  Lclld    inancing of pro3ece4 balanc. of ?vancs dOaicit (1977-1990) on 301 3Onk/507. :5A Cer:z.
3/  Oi.b,rSssn  and rtayw.o  of Bank loan. for lAC projects of which  anzania s  har     a maclonal .O p.r.enc.
3/  lec of  Orawing" and "Upaymenc by Purchas  .
./  Locl4des COSA councries. Feople's .Rupblc of China, 4or8i .ore, Socialisc Rapublic of Viatn.
5/   aprahenc. a mocionaL 40 p.ccant of tank loins for tAC prj cs.
ZAN     j
,40Ory 5, 1978



ANNEX II
-25                            Page 1 of 16
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF OCTOBER 31, 1978
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
Undis-
No.          Year  Borrower            Purpose                 Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/  bursed
Four loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                  70.2            90.8
586-TA    1969  Tanzania  Roads                                 7.0                    1.4
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                     10.8    1.9
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Education                                           10.3    3.7
382-TA 2/ 1973  Tanzania  Livestock                                           18.5    5.4
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                              17.5   11.9
460-TA    1974  Tanzania  Tanzania Investment Bank                             6.0    1.0
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                            21.0                    5.6
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                                   8.5    3.1
507-TA    1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                                 10.2    5.3
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development                                   10.0    6.9
1041-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                                 9.0                    2.4
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                               10.0    6.9
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                              15.0                    3.8
1172-TA    1975  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank           15.0                    2.5
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                                 6.0    4.9
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                              18.0   12.9
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Education                                           11.0    9.4
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  Power                                      30.0             22.2
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                              7.0                    5.6
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                            9.0    8.8
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                   8.0    2.3
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                   15.0                   14.7
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex                11.5              8.5
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.5                          8.5
703-TA 3/ 1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                           7.2    6.6
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                           12.0   12.0
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                            15.0   14.8
1498-TA    1977  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank           15.0                   24.8
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                    27.5   27.5
802-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                    14.0   14.0
803-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                       12.0   12.0
1607-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                    25.0                    25.0
833-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                   _20.0   20.0
Total                                                      210.7  41.5   352.3  303.4
of which has been repaid                                     4.6      -      6.9
Total now outstanding                                      206.1  41.5   345.4
Amount sold                           0.1
of which has been repaid            0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                          206.1  41.5   345.4
Total undisbursed                                          136.2  30.7   136.6  303.4
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million
has been disbursed.
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/   Not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 16
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF OCTOBER 31, 1978
(US$ million)
Loan                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower         Purpose            Bank 1/          Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.4
638-EA  1969    EAHC          Harbours              35.0               1.2
674-EA  1970    EARC          Railways              42.4               3.1
865-EA  1972    EAHC          Harbours              26.5               1.1
914-EA  1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications  32.5                 5.6
1204-EA  1976    EADB          Development Finance 15.0                 8.3
Total                                           244.8              19.3
of which has been repaid                     46.2
Total now outstanding                           198.6
Amount sold                      24.4
of which has been repaid       24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                       198.6
Total undisbursed                                19.3              19.3
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 16
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of October 31, 1978)
There are currently 30 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$10.8 mil:Lion
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,,
1972;  Closing Date - December 31, 1978
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and an improvement in
the control over field activities. However, the position with regard to
field staff will continue to be closely watched. Because of weak extension
and farm practices in the past, about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since
1971 must be infilled or rehabilitated, and yields have been lower than anti-
cipated. In line with the 1976 survey, additional planting has been carried
out and effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved except in
the Bukoba area. Bank recommendations regarding crop yields, husbandry
techniques, field organization, TTA structure and extension activities are
now being implemented. Furthermore, market trends in tea have taken a favor-
able turn. Progress on the project is expected to continue to improve.
The closing date may require a further postponement to allow sufficient time
for completion of the Mwakaleli factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project::
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976. Since the review, significant progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO). However, TPL needs to improve its overall efficiency,
and NARCO's financial situation is unsatisfactory. A financing proposal for
NARCO is currently being prepared for presentation to Treasury and the two
financing institutions (TRDB and NBC) in order to return NARCO to financial
viability. The village livestock development component continues to have
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



28
ANNEX II
Pn-;-     'I  I  fi
the same organizational problems evident during the review and the seriousness
of the situation has been recognized by the Prime Minister's Office. In
summary, significant progress has been made since the review but major pro-
blems remain and require continued attention. The closing date of the Credit
may have to be postponed by 12 months in order to complete the ranch develop-
ment program.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project is much improved since the appointment in October
1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure of the crop
technical packages to give economic responses, the project must now be con-
sidered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research project rather than
an agricultural production project. A major objective is now to develop
a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy. The most signifi-
cant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well distributed
and supervised trial sites. Recruitment of staff has been more vigorously
pursued since the Project Implementation Reviews began. The major project
problems remaining are: the lack of senior staff, the shortage of extension
staff, the inefficient use of tractors, and the delay in producing accounts.
The project will continue to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is
proceeding in accordance with the revised completion schedule which is about
nine months behind the appraisal estimate. Processing plant and machinery
has been delivered to two factories, and is under shipment for the remaining
three factories. The Cashewnut Authority (CATA) take over of the industry
and the consolidation of its activities are proceeding slowly. Its man-
agement capabilities are limited. Therefore, while the Government's con-
sultants have effectively supervised construction and the project includes
provision of technical assistance for factory operation, the development
of CATA is important to future progress and is receiving close attention.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Project implementation and disbursements remain well behind
appraisal estimates. During the past six months, progress has been slow
due to continued weak management at both the regional and district levels,
the loss of significant numbers of trained agricultural and cooperatives
staff as a result of their appointment as Village Managers, and the out-
break of cholera in two of the region's three districts. To allow for
a period of consolidation of project management, only four additional



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5 of 16
villages are to be included in the investment program for the next fiscal
year, bringing the total number of project villages to 61. A Joint-Mid-
term Evaluation of the project was conducted in late October 1978.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project:  US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The development of estate cane plantations has been completed.
Kilombero Sugar Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers
continues and is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than
expected cane yields. The inability of the transport system to supply cane
to both factories is a serious constraint to sugar production and the opera-
tions of the new management advisory agreement show some weaknesses (mainly
becaused Tanzanian seior staff could not be found to fill the line positions
vacated by expatriates). After heavy losses in 1977, mostly due Ito difficul-
ties in starting operations of the new factory, KSC is expected to break-
even. Phase III of the Sugar Study has been started and should be completed
by March 1979  The Sugar Development Corporation has requested Finance to
consider KSC's proposals as to the debt-equity ratio under the project and the
terms of the Government loans; a decision on this matter is expected soon.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project:  US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
With the change in TAFICO's management in August 1977, the project
appears to be progressing satisfactorily after the initial delay in imple-
mention. All formalities with regard to the establishment of the commercial
centers both for the coastal fisheries and Lake Tanganyika have been completed,
and steps have been initiated for the construction of boats and procurement
of engines and fishing gear. Of the four Ujamaa villages identified for
investment under the Ujamaa Pilot Fisheries Program two have been selected and
their investment plans have been prepared. It is expected that active fishing
operations in all cases should begin before the end of 1978.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with regard
to village participation, delivery of inputs, and concentration on high poten-
tial maize regions, it is beset by a number of problems which must be overcome
if the project is to achieve its primary objective. The project's exten-
sion services are seriously understaffed, and the deficiencies of extension
services and the Government's continued indecision on its reorganization are



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 16
constraints effecting project implementation. Farmers' contributions to the
financing of project inputs vary from Region to Region; in areas of high maize
potential about 80% of the inputs have been distributed in the agreed manner,
but in the remaining Regions contributions have ranged from 13% to 42%. A
recent decrease in the subsidy element from 75% to 50% for all inputs has
doubled the cost to the farmers of fertilizer. Many of the difficulties
experienced result from limited cooperation between the central ministry
responsible for the overall project and the regional authorities in charge of
local implementation. Proposals to improve project implementation by modifying
authority for input financing and by increasing regional responsibility for
assessing, ordering and distributing input requirements are under preparation.
Another problem is the tendency for villages to place undue emphasis on
monoculture of maize. A joint RMEA/ Headquarters mission recently reviewed
the above difficulties and its recommendations have been largely endorsed by
the Government.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
Development of the parastatal dairy farms continues to be success-
fully implemented and the milk processing expansion is almost completed. The
loan security/occupancy rights problems have been resolved for most farms. A
shortage of suitable cattle and lack of milk pasteurizing facilities at Mbeya
are imminent problems. The Ujamaa component proceeds slowly and the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank is actively investigation alternative means of assist-
ing village milk production and consumption. The foot and mouth disease
control investigation has commenced.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Although the project got off to a slow start, project implementa-
tion has improved considerably and is now more or less on schedule. The
nurseries are well stocked and maintained, and the current planting program
should be on schedule. Progress on fire protection, road construction and
buildings is satisfactory. All posts are now filled and management has
been reinforced. There are no serious procurement nor disbursement prob-
lems, although both are still slightly behind schedule.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed in April 1978, a
year behind schedule. The delay did not interfere with processing, as the



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 16
crop was only 14.5 m kg against an estimated 20 m kg. Equipment for the new
line is arriving and the line will be operative by April 1979 when factory
capacity will be about 40 m kg against probable production of 20-26 m kg.
Efforts will therefore be made to step up production during the 1978/79
season to ensure a good factory throughput in 1979. Building work at Morogoro
is proceeding satisfactorily. TAT/TTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are
awaited from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional respon-
sibilities of these entities. The study of TAT's financial system will
commence as soon as the cholera quarantine is relaxed and TAT have been
requested to employ a Systems Accountant without further delay. TTPC's
accounts for 1976/77 have been audited and the report is expected shortly.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Good progress has been made in project implementation, although
overall implementation is somewhat behind schedule, largely as a ressult of
delays in the delivery of vehicles and equipment. Key staff of the Project
Secretariat has been in post since early 1978, and the Secretariat is func-
tioning well. The agricultural component is, however, facing serious prob-
lems. The 1977/78 program of village trials (which are indended to validate
the Project's technical packages prior to dissemination to farmers) was
a failure as a result of lack of transport and poor coordination between
regional and district-level staff. The 1978/79 trials programs faces problems
as a result of a shortage of staff to assist in the conduct of these trials
following the appointment of over 50 percent of the region's trained agricul-
tural extension staff as Village Managers.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development
Project; US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date
of Effectiveness - October 2, 1978; Closing Date -
December 31, 1984
This credit became effective on October 2, 1978.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Closing Date - April 30, 1983
This credit is not yet effective.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special
CIDA arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2. million.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 16
Credit No. 803-TA - Rural Development Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: US$10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Physical implementation, particularly the execution of civil works,
has improved considerably and overall completion of the project has reached
91%. However, to allow sufficient time for completion, the Closing Date has
been postponed by 18 months to December 31, 1979. Total project cost is now
estimated at about TSh 109 million, an increase of approximately 5% over the
appraisal estimate of TSh 104 million. The Government do not foresee any
financial problem in the required additional funds. Three Community Educa-
tion Centers out of eight have started operating programs for village devel-
opment, education and training for youth and adults. The two Vocational
Training Centers are in operation at almost full capacity. The technical
assistance and fellowship programs are approaching completion and matching
funds disbursed. Savings under the technical assistance and fellowship com-
ponent of the project are estimated at approximately US$1.3 million.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. Construction
of extensions to fifteen secondary schools is progressing well and construc-
tion of 1,500 houses for village Management Technicians, although delayed,
shows some improvements. Housing construction is in line with VMT training
which will be extended until mid-1980 as a result of the reassignment of over
500 VMTs as Village Managers in January 1978. There are also dealys in
recruitment of experts by UNESCO to assist a secondary school facilities
survey and in recruitment of accountancy expects for the National Board of
Accountants and Auditors. Implementation of a separate review of accountancy
training and a survey of primary schools are progressing slowly. Despite
these delays, project completion can be expected by the initial Closing Date
of June 30, 1982 and no financial problems are envisaged at present.



- 33 -
Page 9 of 16
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project: 1/ US$6.5
million Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The contract for the road construction component of this project
was signed in March 1974, two years later than scheduled and at a cost much
higher than estimated. The Bank reduced the primary road construction
component from 200 km to 82 km and transferred US$1.9 million balance from
the completed Second Highway Project (Loan 586-TA) to meet the higher costs.
The AfDB made a loan of 4 million units of account (US$4.8 million equi-
valent) for the other 118 km. The 66 km of new construction on the primary
road is complete except for about 1/4 km of bridge approaches. Additional
investigatory work by the MOW on the remaining 16 km of existing sealed road
has confirmed the feasibility of undertaking minimum improvements and resealing
this section. The Mara betterment work has been completed and the Geita work
is scheduled for completion in mid-1978. Government has received the final
reports of the two preinvestment studies. Funds available under Credit 265-TA
have been fully disbursed, and only US$1.4 million of the funds reallocated
from Loan 586-TA remain undisbursed.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
Orders have been placed and deliveries are well advanced for
about US$6 million worth of equipment and bids for a further US$0.5 million
worth will be called shortly. A contract for 634 man-months of technical
assistance has been signed and 17 of the 31 experts have commenced their
duties in the country. Construction of road camps, deployment of equipment
and training of maintenance personnel are in hand. Maintenance work has
commenced on several trunk roads.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978:;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
An initial supervision mission has just completed its discussions
with the Government on project start-up. The Project Coordinator has been
appointed and this should assist in initiating project execution.
1/   The Second Highway Project included Loan 586-TA which was for US$7.0
million. In 1975, surplus funds of US$1.9 million were allocated to
the Third Highway Project, and the Closing Date was extended to
December 31, 1978.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
PagelO of 16
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on all
project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is nearing
completion. Education facilities for the Dar es Salaam sites have been ten-
dered; the rest of the community facilities in the project are to be tendered
soon. Progress on the lending program administered by the Tanzania Housing
Bank is slow but likely to pick up. Total project cost is estimated (at
current exchange rates) at US$15 million, compared to the appraisal estimate
of US$16.7 million.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing-Date - June 30, 1982
This credit became effective on April 3, 1978. Progress on imple-
mentation is satisfactory for the residential components. Preparation of the
small scale industry component is also making satisfactory progress. The
Consultants' report on the Land Rent and Service Charge Study was approved
by the Government in January 1978 and a pilot test of the new system for cost
recovery proposed in the study is to be carried out in Morogoro.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2,
1977; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The implementation of the institutional arrangements in connection
with the project, which includes mainly the establishment and operation of
an Urban Water Supply Fund within the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
and an Urban Water Supply Unit in Morogoro, has been delayed by as much as a
year. Out of three senior advisors to be provided under the project, only
one is on duty. Out of five main contracts needed to construct the works in
Morogoro, one is practically completed, two are being awarded and the bidding
documents for the last two contracts are being finalized. Nine-month delay
in the physical construction of the work in Morogoro resulted mainly from
MWEM's poor administrative capability and difficulties due to the Tanzania/
Kenya border closure. Project implementation is expected to improve signifi-
cantly when the technical and financial advisors funded under the project re-
port for duty.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 16
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts have
been awarded. The main civil contractor has not yet completed its transport-
ation; therefore, principal civil construction works at Mtera is five months
behind schedule. Current estimated project cost is US$117 million compared
to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost overrun of 31%. The foreign
exchange gap in IBRD/SIDA-financed portion is about US$14.1 million. SIDA
has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its allocation to cover
its proportion of the cost overruns (about US$6 million). At present, Bank
has no plans to make any additional contruction to bridge the gap. By early
1979, the issue should be reviewed and arrangements made for the necessary
funds.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This Credit has been fully committed. Because of a reallocation of
funds from a subproject previously approved to a new one still under implemen-
tation, the credit is still not fully disbursed and the closing date has
been postponed to December 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1171-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This Loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill and
is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million linear
meters.  Project implementation performance has been acceptable.  lhere has
been a deterioration in the operating performance of the existing MIwanza
plant as well as some other textile mills. The National Textile Corporation



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 16
(TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile mills, has agreed to
institute an immediate action program to improve the operating performance of
existing mills.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
With the arrival of a new project team leader from TATA in February
1978, the project is now expected to be implemented smoothly. Total commit-
ments as of May 31, 1978 was US$2.1 million of which US$1.7 million, US$0.3
million and US$0.1 million were for consultancy services, training and project
unit services, respectively. The procedures for processing proposals are
being streamlined and it is expected that the pace of commitments and dis-
bursements will be increased as a result.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of some
initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of procurement.
Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual components
of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still scheduled for
July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly higher than those
contained in the Appraisal Report.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3,
1978: Closing Date - June 30, 1981
This Loan became effective on April 3, 1978.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex.



- 37 -
ANTEX I I
Pn,ei-i of 16
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 2,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April. 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in
Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has been completed. Of
the minor project elements, only two are still under construction, namely
the improvement of lighterage facilities in Tanga and reconstruction of sheds
in Mombasa. Both are expected to be completed before mid-1978. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerabley. The ports of Kenya and Tanzania are now functioning
completely independently of each other. Legislation to establish a Tanzania
Harbours Authority has been enacted, and a Kenya Port Authority is expected
to be established soon. Management of Ports in both countries is compe-
tent. Some US$33.8 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.4 million of Loan 865-
EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds
at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                     (US$ million)
Kenya                                  0.7
Tanzania                               0.6
Total                              1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                  1.7
Tanzania                               0.3
Total                              2.0



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 16
The closing date for Loan No. 638-EA has passed. However, since the
amount allocated to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified
under the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978 (referred to in a
report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977-R77-312), were are
continuing disbursements.
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project:  US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution of
the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.0
Tanzania                3.8
Uganda                  1.9
Total                   7.7
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF system con-
struction have now been completed, despite initial delays caused by staffing
and other problems associated with the reallocation of the headquarters.
Funds disbursed to date total US$26.9 million and the balance has been com-
mitted for cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and associated multi-
plex equipment. Because of the long lead time required for the microwave
equipment, the project is expected to be fully completed by mid-1979. The
Closing Date has accordingly been postponed to December 31, 1979. The agreed
allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 among the countries con-
cerned is given below:



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 16
$ Million
Kenya                   2.4
Tanzania                3.5
Uganda                  0.1
Total                   6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
Over the last year, the environment within the Community has had a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, and there has been some deterioration in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio rising to 50%
as of June 30, 1977. However, EADB has been able to retain nearly all its
staff who are both adequate in number and technically competent to continue
the operation of the institution and effect some recovery in the portfolio.
Some US$6.7 million has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance
amounts to US$3.0 million.



- 40 -                    ANNEX II
Page 16 of 16
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
As of October 31, 1978
Fiscal Year            Obligor             Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing   3.96    0.70          4.66
1978             Highland Soap              Soap Manufacture  1.37    0.38        1.75
Total gross commitments                     5.33    1.08      6.41
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    3.96    0.70      4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC           1.37    0.38      1.75
Total Undisbursed                           1.37    0.38      1.75



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
TOURISM REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(1)  Time taken to prepare project:              7 months
(2)  Preparation by:                             Government of Tanzania/TTC
(3)  Initial Discussion with IDA                 October 1976
(4)  Appraisal Mission departure:               March 1978
(5)  Negotiations                                October 1978
(6)  Planned date of effectiveness:             March 1979
II. Special Bank Implementation Action
none
III. Special Conditions:
(1)  The major access road  to the national parks, the Makuyuni-Serengeti
Road, will be upgraded to an all weather standard and subsequently
maintained to that standard (para. 31).
(2)  The Government shall continue to pursue policies consistent with
the preservation of wildlife resources. Any major proposed changes
in policies affecting wildlife preservation relating to organiza-
tion and staffing of anti-poaching units, licensing of hunting,
dealing in and exporting of trophies shall be submitted to the
Association in sufficient time to enable it to comment on them.
A report dealing with the wildlife situation in Tanzania and the
results of anti-poaching activities shall also be furnished annually
to the Association (paras. 34 and 45).
(3)  The level of repair and maintenance expenditure on hotels would,
by December 31, 1981 reach at least 6 percent of hotel sales or
2% of the current value of TTC's principal fixed assets, whichever
is higher (para. 40).



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page ZFot 2
(4) A suitable site for the HTTI within Dar es Salaam would be
determined in consultation with the Association, a study on the
financing of HTTI would be undertaken by the Government and the
Association would be informed of its result by December 31, 1980
(para. 43).
(5). The head teacher for HTTI would be nominated by December 31,
1979 (para. 44).
(6)  An adequately qualified and experienced Project Coordinator
to supervise and manage the hotel rehabilitation work would
be appointed by April 30, 1979 and all technical assistance
experts funded under the project would be suitably qualified and
experienced and appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association (para. 49).
(7) The Government will fund any capital expenditures by TTC in
excess of TSh 2 million per fiscal year if these funds are
not raised through new long-term borrowing by TTC and if TTC's
consolidated current ratio after such expenditures falls below
1.1 to 1 (para. 57).
(8) TTC would prepare and submit to the Association by December 31,
1979 a study examining the feasibility and magnitude of real
rate increase at its hotel and lodges and recommend policies and
procedures for TTC tariff rate decissions (para. 59).
(9) Completion of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the
Association between the Government and TTC would be a condition
of effectiveness (para. 65).



