DOCUMNTS .CREDIT NUMBER 860 TA
Project Agreement
(Tourism Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
TANZANIA TOURIST CORPORATION
Dated                           -, 1979


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    2         , 1979, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPME T ASSOCIATION   (hereinafter  called the
Association) and TANZANIA TOURIST CORPORATION (hereinafter called
TTC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the United Republic of Tanzania (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but, only on condition that TTC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TTC, a portion of the proceeds of
the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be made available to TTC on t.ie terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS TTC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into- the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
.       agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the term "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or
effectively controlled by TTC or by any one or more subsidiaries
of TTC or by TTC and one or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. TTC shall carry out Parts A and B of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit


﻿-2-
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, commercial engineering and financial
practices.
Section 2.02. TTC shall employ, by April 30, 1979 or such
later date as the Association may accept, and retain a qualified
and experienced specialist to supervise and coordinate the hotel
rehabilitation program included in Part A of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. All technical assistance required for Parts A
and B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be carried out by qualified and experienced personnel
on terms and conditions satisfactory to TTC and the Association.
Section 2.05. (a) TTC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
.against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by TTC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, TTC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for
the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) TTC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Parts A and B of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) TTC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts A and B of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose their use


﻿-3-
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in Parts A and B of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning Parts A and B of the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Associa-
tion and TTC, TTC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by TTC and the Association of their respective
obligations under the Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit.
(d) TTC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine such plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of TTC and such relevant records and
documents as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 2.07. TTC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, TTC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) TTC shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) TTC and the Association shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes or threatens to inter-
fere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by TTC of its obliga-
ticis under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TTC
Section 3.01. TTC shall carry out its tndertakings under
the Project and shall. conduct its operations and affairs in
conformity with sound administrative, commercial, engineering
and financial practices, under qualified and experienced man-
agement and staff in adequate numbers.
.Section 3.02. TTC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible-insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such *risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. TTC shall operate and matntain, repair and
replace all facilities, equipment and vehicles financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit relent io Lt, in accordance with
appropriate administrative, commercial, engineering and financial
practices.
Section 3.04. TTC shall, by December 31, 1981, have reached
and thereafter maintain an aninal level of repair and mainte-
nance expenditure equivalent to six per cent of its annual
hotel sales or two per cent of the total current value of its
fixed assets, whichever is higher.
Section 3.05. TTC shall, by December 31, 1979, prepare
and submit to the Association a study examining the feasibility
and magnitude of real rate increases at its hotels and lodges and
recommending policies and procedures for TTC tariff rate deci-
sions.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) TTC shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices Lts operations and financial condition.
(b) TTC shall establish and maintain until. co-apletion
of the Project a separate Project Account for Parts A and B of
the Project to be used exclusively for purposes of the Project and
shall record thereta all receipts and payments for or in connec-
tion with those Parts of the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. TTC shall: (a) have its accounts including
the said Project Account and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
of its subsidiaries, and consolidated financial statement for TTC
and its subsidiaries for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (b) furnish to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (i) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (c) furnish to the Association such other information concern-
ing such accounts and financial statements of TTC and- the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. TTC shall not undertake any capital expendi-
tures in excess of TShs2,000,000 per fiscal year, except capital
expenditures financed through government grants or long-term
non-governmental borrowings, if its ratio of current assets
to current liabilities, on a consolidated basis after making
the proposed capital expenditures in question, would fall below
1.1 to 1. The terms "current assets" and "current liabilities"
have the meanings assigned to them in Section 3.03 (b) of the
Development Credit Agreement.
.ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of TTC hereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date fifteen years after the date of this
Agreement.


﻿(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
TTC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
- United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For TTC:
Tanzania Tourist Corporation
P.O. Box 2485
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania


﻿7-
Cable address:                     Telex:
TANTOURS            .               41061
Dar es Salaam                      Dar es Salaam
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
-this Agreement on behalf of TTC may be taken or executed by its
General Manager or such other person or persons as its General
Manager shall designate in writing, and TTC shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
TANZANIA TOURIST CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except 'as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, TTC shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association. will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. TTC shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for civil works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to TTC of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.


﻿B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Tanzania may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Tanzania if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of Tanzania and the Assoclation
that the manufacturing cost of *such goods includes
a value added in Tanzania equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Tanzania.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿-10-
grouy C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, TTC may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower
and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of
firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by TTC,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
f1. Contracts for civil works estimated to cost $250,000 equiva-
lent or less may be awarded pursuant to the Borrower's applicable


﻿- 11 -
competitive-bidding procedures; provided that the aggregate
value of contracts awarded pursuant to this paragraph shall not
exceed $2,400,000 equivalent.
2.   Contracts or orders for the purchase of goods which cannot
be bulked in packages of $100,000 equivalent or more may be
awarded pursuant to the Borrower's applicable competitive bidding
procedures; provided that the aggregate value of contracts awarded
pursuant to this paragraph shall not exceed $1,500,000 equivalent.
3.   Spare parts for existing equipment may be procured directly
from the equipment manufacturer or distributor; provided that
the aggregate value of such spare parts shall not exceed $300,000
equivalent.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower or TTC, as the case
may be, shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Asso-
ciation in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and, where
applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under
Part C above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant
for prequalification and for such eligibility shall be furnished
by the Borrower or TTC, as the case may be, to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's
or TTC's decision, as the case may be, and the Borrower or TTC, as
the case may be, shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower or TTC, as the
case may be, shall furnish to the Association, for its comments,
the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as the


﻿- 12 -
Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower or TTC, as the case may be, shall, before a final decision
on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish
to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower or TTC, as the case may be, and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by.,the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower or TTC, as the case may be, shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower or TTC, as the case may be,
and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an
extension of the stipulated time for performance of such contract,
or issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases
of extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract


﻿-13-
by more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower or TTC, as
the case may be, shall inform the Association of the proposed
modification, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons
therefor. The Association, if it determines that the proposal
would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall
promptly inform the Borrower or TTC, as the case may be, and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of, o
  1974.
FOR SECRETARY


