CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 860 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Tourism Rehabilitation Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 22, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 860 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 22, 1979, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and. INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) part of the Project will be carried out by the Tanzania
Tourist Corporation (hereinafter called TTC) with the Borrower's
assistfnce and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to TTC a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and TTC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(.said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and TTC of even date herewith, as the same may be


﻿-2-
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and TTC pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
(c) "TShs" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or
such later date as the Association shall, establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing May 1, 1989, and ending November 1,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditi"'s.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts C and D
of the Project through its Ministry of Natural Resources and
Tourism and Ministry of Works, respectively, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
commercial, engineering and financial practices, and shall pro-
vide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause TTC to carry out Parts A and B of the Project
and to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable TTC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of
the Credit to TTC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and TTC under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association which shall include the following:
repayment over sixteen years inclusive of four years grace at an
interest rate of 10 per cent (10%) per annum.


﻿-4-
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e) The Borrower shall cause Tanzania National Parks and
the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority to carry out Part E of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and shall pass on the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn for Part E of the Project to
them as a grant.
Section 3.02. With respect to the Hotel and Tourism Training
Institute referred to in Part C of the Project:
(a) The Borrower shall locate the Institute in Dar es Salaam
on a site determined in consultation with the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall study the methods of financing the
Institute's operations and shall, by December 31, 1980, have
completed the study and informed the Association of the results
thereof.
(c) At least six months prior to the expected opening of
the Institute,- the Borrower shall have prepared an accounting
system for the Institute which is satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished to
the Association, the financial statements of the Institute for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; and furnish, or cause to be furnished, to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year: (i) certified
copies of such statements as so audited and (ii) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested.
(e) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall employ qualified and experienced
consultants on terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association as follows:


﻿-5-
(i) a senior technical advisor in the Borrower's
Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism for three
years to assist in planning the operations of the
Institute and to advise on training policy; and
(ii) a head teacher, to be nominated by December 31,
1979, and five other persons to assist in the
preparation of syllabi and teach at the Institute
for its first three years of operation.
Section 3.03. (a) To the extent that funds for capital expen-
ditures of TTC are not raised through long-term non-governmental
borrowings, the Borrower shall provide, or cause to be provided,
to TTC the funds necessary for any capital expenditures in excess
of TShs. 2,000,000 per fiscal year if and to the extent that TTC's
ratio of current assets to current liabilities, on a consolidated
basis, after making the proposed capital expenditures in question,
would be less than 1.1 to 1.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "current assets" means cash, securities
readily convertible into cash, accounts receivable
and realizable within one year and inventories;
and
(ii) the term "current liabilities" means accounts
payable within twelve months, customer advances,
income taxes, bonuses and all other liabilities
(including debt) which will be due and payable, or
could be called for payment, within twelve months.
Section 3.04. With respect to Parts C, D and E of the Proj-
ect: (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿Section 3.05. With respect to Parts C, D and E of the
Project: (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for those Parts of the Project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of those Parts of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in those Parts
of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in those Parts of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning those Parts of the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. With respect to Parts C, D and E of the
Project,. the Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of those Parts of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower respon-
sible for carrying out those Parts of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall upgrade the Makuyuni-
Serengeti road to an all-weather standard by the Closing Date and
shall maintain this road to an all-weather 6candard in accordance
with sound engineering standards.
Section 3.08. The Government shall continue to pursue
policies consistent with the preservation of wildlife resources.
Any major proposed changes in policies affecting wildlife pre-
servation, relating to organization and staffing of antipoaching
units, licensing of hunting, dealing in and exporting of trophies,
shall be submitted to the Association in sufficient time to enable
it to comment on them. A report dealing with the wililife situa-
tion in Tanzania and the results of antipoaching activities shall
be furnished annually to the Association.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) TTC shall have failed to perform any obligation of
TTC under the Project Agreement.
(b) The organization, powers or responsibilities of TTC
shall have been terminated or altered so as to affect materially
and adversely the carrying out by TTC of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and TTC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and TTC.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by TTC, and is legally binding upon TTC in accordance
with its terms; and


﻿-8-
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and TTC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and TTC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date April 24, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02 (d), 3.04 and 3.06 of this Agreement and the provisions of
Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, which-
ever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
P. 0. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By Is/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! W.A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal. of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                3,500,000        65%
(2) Furniture, fixtures,       5,000,000        100' of foreign
equipment and                              expenditures,
vehicles                                    75% of local ex-
penditures for
imported items
procured locally
and 100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(3) Consulting services          400,000        100% of foreign
for Categories (1)                         expenditures and
and (2)                                    50% of local
expenditures
(4) Other technical            1,500,000        100% of foreign
assistance                                 expenditures and
50% of local
expenditures
(5) Marketing                    500,000        100% of foreign
expenses                                   expenditures and
50% of local
expenditures
(6) Unallocated                3,100,000
TOTAL     14,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the tenritory of the Borrower.
3.   The d1sbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance wi .h the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shil be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or iv the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdra-
wals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$400,000, may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
October 1, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocatio: of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 12 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Rehabilitation of the twelve hotels and lodges set
forth below which are owned and operated by TTC, includ-
ing structural repair; repair and replacement of equip-
ment and technical plant; provision of vehicles and
staff housing; and improvement and strengthening of
maintenance and repair facilities and staff housing.
The hotels and lodges and their locations are: Kiliman-
jaro Hotel - Dar es Salaam; New Africa Hotel - Dar es
Salaam; Kunduchi Beach Hotel - north of Dar es Salaam;
Mafia Island Lodge - Mafia Island; Mikumi Wildlife Lodge
- Mikumi National Park; Lake Manyara Hotel - overlooking
Lake Manyara National Park; Ngorongoro Wildlife Lodge -
Ngorongoro Conservation Area; Seronera Wildlife Lodge -
Serengeti National Park; Lobo Wildlife Lodge - Serengeti
National Park; New Mwanza Hotel - Mwanza; New Safari
Hotel - Arusha; and Moshi Hotel - Moshi.
Part B:   Strengthening TTC's management in the fields of hotel
rehabilitation, hotel maintenance and engineering, sup-
plies, reservations and communications; and marketing,
including promotional materials and marketing campaigns.
Part C:   Construction, including furnishing and equipping, and
operation of a Hotel and Tourism Training Institute in
Dar es Salaam.
Part D:   Improvements to terminal building of the Dar es Salaam
Airport.
Part E:   Improving and supporting the Borrower's anti-poaching
program.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


