Report No. PID11215
Project Name                     Pakistan-Sindh Structural...
Adjustment Credit
Region                           South Asia Region
Sector                           Poverty Reduction and Economic
Management
Project ID                       PKPE75810
Borrower (s)                     Government of Pakistan (GoP)
Implementing Agency              Department of Finance
Government of Sindh
Contact Person Mr. Fazlur Rahman,
Secretary Finance
Tel: 92-21-9203114
Fax: 92-21-9206511
Environment Category             U (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                May 15, 2002
Appraisal Date                   May 2-9, 2002
Projected Board Date             June 20, 2002
1. Country Background
In the 1990s, Pakistan's development slowed down markedly. Per capita growth
rates fell from 3t in the 1980s to around 1.2w and poverty level and human development
remained stagnant and even deteriorated in some cases. Despite structural reforms in the
1990s that liberalized trade and the financial sector and liberalized private sector
investment in infrastructure, fiscal adjustment remained incomplete and the country's
governance and public institutions weakened through lack of accountability and
transparency.
Alongside the reversal of economic performance in the 1990s, the other
unfortunate part in Pakistan's performance is its persistently poor human development and
the resultant social gap: i.e. the gap in human development between Pakistan and
countries with comparable per capita income. Thus, even though Pakistan has grown much
faster than most other low-income countries, it has not achieved social progress
commensurate with its growth.
Since taking office in October 1999, the Federal Government of Pakistan (GoP) has
been implementing a comprehensive program of reforms to attack the twin problems of
macroeconomic fragility and poor governance. This program embedded in a comprehensive
poverty reduction strategy was presented in the I-PRSP and discussed in the Boards of the
Bank and the IMF in December 2001. The I-PRSP specified four main goals of policy in the
years ahead: engendering growth, reforming governance, creating income generating
opportunities (specifically for the poor), improving human development, and reducing
vulnerability to shocks (at the microeconomic level).
However, the successful implementation of Pakistan's poverty reduction strategy
will depend critically on the improvement of governance and economic management in
Pakistan's provinces. Pakistan is a federation of 4 provinces (Balochistan, NWFP, Punjab
and Sindh) and 7 tribal areas. While the overall reform leadership is provided at the



Federal level, it is recognized that making a significant dent in human and income poverty
will require deepening the reform program to the provincial and local government levels.
Pakistan's 1973 constitution grants major responsibility to the provinces for providing
social services, irrigation, agriculture, and roads infrastructure and provincial
expenditures account for 80 percent of total government spending in these areas. Most tax
authority, though, is concentrated with the Federal Government, and Federal transfers
account for around 80% of provincial resources.   Total provincial government spending is
only around 24% of total government spending reflecting the low resources for basic
government services.
Pakistan's provinces are now facing a crisis in public finances, civil service
performance, and public service delivery. Lack of fiscal space for poverty reducing
expenditures, narrow tax bases, a large but mainly unskilled civil service, poor
accountability and transparency have resulted in the provinces suffering from deficits
(shortfalls of spending and service delivery relative to needs) in the funding and
delivery of social services (education, health, rural water supply and sanitation).
Similarly, infrastructure deficits (roads, irrigation and drainage, and municipal
services) increase the cost of doing business and impose a heavy burden on the economy and
the people.
There is now a major opportunity for the provinces to turn around the performance
of their public sectors within the context of a multi-tier reforms now taking place. The
Federal government is implementing comprehensive reforms to accelerate growth and reduce
poverty. Provincial governments have also initiated a number of promising reforms to
improve their governance, public finances, and public service delivery systems. Finally,
Pakistan's devolution plan represents a major opportunity to reverse decades of
over-centralization of public sector management by creating more accountable elected local
governments, which would be responsible for the provision of local public services.
2. Objectives
The objective of the proposed credit is to support the wide-ranging reforms being
implemented by the Government of Sindh (GoS) province in Pakistan after taking office in
April 2000. These reforms, led by strong champions in the government, including the
Governor of the province, the Cabinet, and committed civil servants, aim to reduce poverty
in Pakistan's second largest province and home of 30 million people by improving public
service delivery and stimulate growth. Closely complementing the Federal Government of
Pakistan's strategy articulated in the Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP)
issued in November 2001, Sindh's reforms are improving public finances, governance, public
service delivery and the regulatory framework and reversing a decade of poor governance
and economic decline.
3. Rationale of Bank's Involvement
The proposed IDA credit's rationale is to support efforts to reduce human and
income poverty in one of the key provinces in Pakistan. The credit supports the GoS's
efforts at making a comprehensive attack on poverty in the province of Sindh through
supporting a medium term program of reforms. These include mobilizing greater public
resources, directing these resources to poverty reducing expenditures, improving financial
management, and implementing governance and regulatory reforms to improve public services
to the poor and stimulate private sector activity.
4. Description
The proposed Credit supports the implementation of the Government of Sindh's
reforms to reduce poverty in the province in line with Pakistan's Poverty Reduction
- 2 -



Strategy. The reforms supported by the credit focuses on:
* Fiscal restructuring of provincial finances that will provide more resources for poverty
reducing expenditures and financial management that will enhance the effectiveness of
public expenditures. The Government of Sindh has started implementing specific measures
under a medium term fiscal restructuring plan and a financial management reform plan to
this end.
* Better-managed civil service and public service delivery systems that are made more
transparent and accountable to local governments and communities for their performance.
Strengthening governance to promote merit, professionalism, and discipline in the civil
service.
* The impact of better public services in education and health leading to greater access
to higher quality education and increasing primary enrollment and completion rates,
greater coverage of immunization and preventive health programs. Initial data suggests
that the Government's efforts are already having positive impact in increasing enrollment
and immunization coverage.
* Regulatory, privatization and infrastructure reforms to stimulate private sector
activity and support increase in incomes and employment
5.   Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements for the implementation of the reform
program have been made and are being strengthened to identify and track relevant variables
to evaluate the impact of these reforms.
6. Financing
SDR 79.1 Million (US$100 Million Equivalent)
7. Implementation
The Departments of Finance, Government of Sindh is responsible for coordinating
and overseeing the implementation of reforms. This work is being coordinated with the
Planning and Development Department, Health, Education, Local Government, Industries
departments, the Sindh Public Service Commission and the Privatization Commission. The
program is being supported by a Technical Assistance grant that has been provided by the
Government of Japan.
8. Sustainability
The sustainability of the program will depend on proper implementation that will
deliver quick and visible improvements in the lives of the people of Sindh so that the
support of the people for this program is ensured. GoS has also attempted to build
consensus around the reform program (e.g. through the Sindh Development Forum which was
attended by wide range of civil society members, development partners, and, very
importantly, the newly elected District Government heads, the Nazims). In addition, the
reforms and the partnerships have been institutionalized in a number of bodies at both the
provincial and local levels.
9. Lessons Learnt from Past Experience
Several lessons of experience have been learned from previous operations in
Pakistan, and have been reflected in the preparation of this Credit:
-3 -



(a) A quick-disbursing single-tranche loan, prepared within the framework of a medium-term
reform program, in which all policy actions are implemented before the loan is presented
to the Board is an effective way of supporting reforms and providing governments with the
needed financial capital to sustain their reform programs while minimizing implementation
risks.
(b) System's improvements are needed in public finance, financial management, and
governance and regulatory institutions, for a comprehensive attack on poverty.
(c) Reform programs will have to be home grown and have strong champions, who are seen
both among the Ministers and the civil servants in the Government of Sindh.
10. Program of Targeted Interventions
Targeted support of the GoS includes increasing resources for basic education,
health, drinking water, and rural infrastructure that will directly benefit the poor,
especially in the rural areas. Specifically, these resources will provide textbooks,
learning materials, and scholarships to the rural poor population, expand immunization
coverage and basic health services, and targeted public works program such as the Kushal
Pakistan Program in the province of Sindh.
11. Environment Aspects
The Sindh Structural Adjustment Credit supports reforms that can make importanti
contributions to environmental management, particularly by providing rural drinking water
and sanitation, better irrigation maintenance to avoid waterlogging and salinization. The
program's emphasis on improving the irrigation and roads infrastructure can also be
beneficial to the environment; e.g. poorly aligned roads with bad drainage can be major
causes of erosion -- with all its attendant economic costs. Nevertheless, to evaluate
potential impact, a national environment impact assessment will be carried out in FY 03 by
the South Asia environmental unit to assess compliance with environmental laws and
institutional reforms that need to be taken to improve environmental management. This
assessment will include Sindh province.
12. Contact Point:
Task Manager:
Ahmad Ahsan
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:    (202) 473-1672
Fax:   (202) 522-0356
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
- 4 -



This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
May 24, 2002.
- 5-



