Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 24193-PAK
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 79.1 MILLION
(US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT FOR THE
GOVERNMENT OF SINDH PROVINCE
May 28, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Region



GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30 (FY02 = 2001/02)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pak Rupees (PRs.)
US$1 = PKR 60.30 (March 2002 Floating Inter Bank Rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIT      Agriculture Income Tax                            NFC      National Finance Commission
AERC     Applied Economic Research Center                  NGOs     Non-Govemment Organizations
ADB      Asian Development Bank                            NRB      National Reconstruction Bureau
AWBs     Area Water Boards                                 NSS      National Saving Schemes
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                       NWFP     North West Frontier Province
CBR      Central Board of Revenue                          OZT      Octroi Zila Tax
CCB      Citizen Community Boards                          P&D      Planning and Development Department
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment       PAC      Public Accounts Committee
CGA      Comptroller General of Accounts                   PAD      Pakistan Audit Department
CIP      Community Infrastructure Project                  PCA      Provincial Controller of Accounts
CWD      Communications and Works Department               PD       Project Document
DAO      District Accounts Office                          PCOI     Provincial Committee on Investment
DFID     United Kingdom Department for Intemational        PERK     Program for the Economic Revival of Karachi
Development                                      PFC      Provincial Finance Commission
DoE      Department of Education                           PIFRA    Pakistan Improvement of Financial Reporting and
EPI      Expanded Program of Immunization                             Auditing
ESR      Education Sector Reform                           PPAF     Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
FMC      Fiscal Monitoring Committee                       PRGF     Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
FOs      Farmer Organizations                              PRSC     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
GAVI     Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization     PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
GoP      Govemment of Pakistan                             PSIA     Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
GoS      Govemment of Sindh                                SAC      Structural Adjustment Credit
GPDP     Gross Provincial Development Product              SAP      Social Action Program
GST      General Sales Tax                                 SASO     Sindh Agriculture Supplies Organization
IDA      Intemational Development Association              SBP      State Bank of Pakistan
IFC      International Finance Corporation                 SEF      Sindh Education Foundation
IFIs     Intemational Financial Institutions               SG&AD    Services Govemment and Administration
IMF      Intemational Monetary Fund                                   Department
I-PRSP   Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper          SIDA     Sindh Irrigation and Drainage Authority
KESC     Karachi Electric Supply Corporation               SMEDA    Small and Medium Enterprise Development
KPP      Khushal Pakistan Program                                     Authority
KWSB     Karachi Water Supply Board                        SPSC     Sindh Public Service Commission
LGO      Local Govemment Ordinances                        SPC      Sindh Privatization Commission
LHW      Lady Health Worker                                SSAC     Sindh Structural Adjustment Credit
MDG      Millennium Development Goals                      TPV      Third Party Validation
MOP      Memorandum of the President                       UIPT     Urban Immovable Property Tax
MTFRP    Medium-Term Fiscal Restructuring Plan             UNDP     United Nation Development Program
MTBF     Medium-Term Budget Framework                      VRS      Voluntary Retirement Scheme
NAB      National Accountability Bureau                    WAPDA Water and Power Development Authority
Vice President: Mieko Nishimizu, SARVP
Country Director: John W. Wall, SACPK
Sector Director: Sadiq Ahmed, SASPR
Task Team Leaders: Ahmad Ahsan & Hanid Mukhtar, SASPR



THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SINDH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION ..........................................................1
II.   THE COUNTRY CONTEXT ..........................................................2
A. Pakistan's Reform Program and Recent Economic Developments .............................................2
B. The Role of the Provinces and the Devolution Program ..........................................................4
m. SINDH: THE PROVINCIAL CONTEXT                                       .6
A. Poverty and Human Development                              .7
B. Deterioration in Governance and Economic Management                   .8
IV. THE GOVERNMENT OF SINDH'S REFORM PROGRAM                                    .       .       9
A. Pillar One: Fiscal and Financial Management Reforms .10
Fiscal Management .10
Financial Management .16
B. Pillar Two: Improving Governance of Civil Service and Public Service Delivery   .      17
Civil Service Reforms                               .17
Improving Public Service Delivery:
Education .......................................................                 19
Health .........................................................                  21
Rural Drinking Water and Sanitation .......................................................  22
Urban Services .........................................................          23
C. Pillar Three: Promoting Private Sector Development and Economic Revival ............................ 23
Regulatory Reforms and Privatization .......................................................  24
Rehabilitating Sindh 's Road .........................................................  25
Agriculture and Irrigation .......................................................    25
V. THE PROPOSED SINDH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT                                  .    .     27
A. Pakistan Country Assistance Strategy .........................................................  27
B. The Proposed Credit: Prior Actions and Medium Term Benchmarks ........................................ 29
C. Credit Administration .........................................................        3 1
D. Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements .........................................................  32
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS .34
A. Benefits .34
B. Risks .34



TABLES
Table 1: Pakistan's Social Indicators in Perspective ............................................................2
Table 2: Provincial and Urban Rural Differences in Selected Human Development
Indicators (1998-99) ............................................................7
Table 3: Trends in Social Indicators in Sindh ............................................................8
Table 4: Growth Rates in Sindh ............................................................9
Table 5: Sindh - Public Finances, 1999/00 - 2005/06 ...........................................................  14
Table 6: Composition of Expenditures, 1999/00 - 2005/06 ...........................................................   14
Table 7: Monitoring Indicators Under GoS Reform Program ...........................................................   33
FIGURES
Figure 1: Sindh: Decreasing Fiscal Space .............................................................8
BOXES
Box 1: Education Sector Strategy Targets in Sindh ...........................................................  19
Box 2: Health Sector Strategy Targets in Sindh ...........................................................  21
Box 3: Prior Actions for Disbursement of Sindh Structural Adjustment Credit ........................................ 30
ANNEXES
Annex A:      Policy Reform Matrix
Annex B:      Letter of Development Policy
Annex C:      Poverty and Social Development in Sindh
Annex D       Devolution and Inter-Governmental Fiscal Framework for Pakistan and Sindh
Annex E:      Sindh Medium-Term Fiscal Restructuring Plan FY 2002 - FY 2006
Annex F:      Public Financial Accountability and Management in Sindh
Annex G:      Sindh Education and Health Sector Reforms Program
Annex H:      Regulatory Reforms and Privatization
Annex I:      Statistical Annex
MAP
Task Team
Task Managers             Ahmad Ahsan, Hanid Mukhtar (SASPR)
Peer Reviewers            Shahrokh Fardoust (Senior Advisor, DECVP); Elizabeth M. King (Lead Economist,
DECRG); Gary Reid (Lead Specialist, ECAPS)
FiscaUPublic Expenditure  Hanid Mukhtar, Shaheen Malik, Ahmad Ahsan (SASPR)
Management
Financial Management      Arif Yaqub, P.K. Subramanian, Hasan Saqib (SARFM)
Administrative Reform     Nick Manning, Ahmad Ahsan (SASPR)
Public Enterprise Reform  John S. Speakman (MNSIF), Asya Akhlaque (SARFP)
and Deregulation
Poverty Monitoring &      Ambar Narayan (SASPR)
Social Analysis
Sectoral Inputs           Tahseen Sayed (SASHD), Inaam Haq (SASHD), Amer Zafar Durrani (SASEI),
Shahnaz Arshad (SASEI), Raja Rehan Arshad (SASRD), Bala B. K. Naidu (SASPR)
Legal Counsel             Said Al Habsy, Akhtar Hamid (LEGMS)
Procurement               Ahsan Ali (SARPS)
Program Assistants        Shams ur Rehman, Thelma Rutledge



PAKISTAN
SINDE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:            Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Implementing Agency: Department of Finance, Government of Sindh
Beneficiary:         Province of Sindh
Amount:              SDR 79.1 million (US$100 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms; 35 years maturity with 10-year grace period
On lend:ng Terms:    IDA terms in Pak Rupees equivalent: Standard with 35 years maturity and
10 years grace period
Description:         The Sindh Structural Adjustment Credit (SSAC) supports the Province of
Sindh's economic reform program to reduce human and income poverty in the
province. This program has three pillars: (i) fiscal restructuring and financial
management reforms; (ii) improving public service delivery through civil
service reforms, decentralization, and reforms in health, education, drinking
water, and urban services; and (iii) regulatory reforms, privatization and
infrastructure improvements. The proposed credit is consistent with the
macroeconomic program and the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy of the
Government of Pakistan.
Benefits:            The implementation of the SSAC supported program of reforms to date
represents substantial progress in Sindh's efforts to achieve its reform vision as
presented in the Sindh Development Forum, February, 2002 and is consistent
with efforts by the Government of Pakistan to stimulate reform in the
provinces. The main development goals include creating an environment in the
province conducive to accelerating growth, reducing human and income
poverty, and making government transparent and accountable. The benefits of
this credit will come from poverty reduction and faster human development
resulting from the following measures: (i) fiscal restructuring that will provide
more resources for poverty reducing expenditures and financial management
reforms that will enhance the effectiveness of expenditures; (ii) a better
managed civil service and public service delivery systems that are made more
accountable to local governments and communities for their perfonnance; (iii)
the impact of better public services in education and health leading to greater
access to higher quality education and increasing primary enrollment and
completion rates, and greater coverage of immunization and preventive health
programs; and (iv) regulatory and infrastructure reforms that will support
increase in incomes and employment. Monitoring arrangements have been
strengthened to identify and track the relevant variables to evaluate the impact
of these reforms.



Risks:                This operation faces essentially three types of risks: continuity risks,
implementation capacity risks, and risks from exogenous shocks. Of all the
risks, continuity of reforms risk, closely related to political risk, is the most
important. Newly elected governments will take office in October 2002, and
there is the unavoidable question whether the next government will continue
implementing the current reform program. They will likely face political risks
such as resistance from politicians and civil servants to loss of opportunity for
rent seeking and corruption and the loss of power to local governments. Civil
servants and public enterprise employees are likely to resist privatization and
rationalization. The GoS however has attempted to mitigate these risks
through building consensus around the reform program (e.g. through the Sindh
Development Forum which was attended by a wide range of civil society
members, development partners, and very importantly, the newly elected
District Government heads, the Nazims). In addition, the reforms and the
partnerships have been institutionalized in a number of bodies at both the
provincial and local levels.
Disbursement:         SDR 79.1 million (US$ 100 million equivalent), disbursed upon effectiveness
to the GoP and the rupee equivalent will then be on-lent to GoS on IDA terms;
GoP will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project ID Number:    P075810



IDA PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
FOR TBE GOVERNMENT OF SINDH
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    The proposed IDA credit seeks to support the wide-ranging program of reforms that are being
implemented by the Government of Sindh (GoS) province in Pakistan since taking office in April 20001.
These reforms, set in a medium-term framework, are improving public finances, governance, public
service delivery and the regulatory framework and reversing a decade of poor govemance and decline in
the province (see paras. 31 to 34).
2.     The reforms in Sindh, led by strong champions in the government, including the Governor of the
province, the Cabinet, and committed civil servants, aim to reduce poverty in Pakistan's second largest
province and home of 30 million people. Closely complementing the Government of Pakistan's strategy
articulated in the Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) issued in November 2001, the
objective of the GoS reforns is to reduce poverty through improving public service delivery and
stimulating growth.
3.    In the short span of two years, the GoS has built up a credible track record in implementation and
progress in outcomes is evident in some areas. The provincial fiscal position has improved through
significant reforms in tax policy, increase in revenues, and reduction in liabilities. Allocations on critical
non-salary expenditures on health and education and development expenditures have increased and the
development portfolio has been streamlined and prioritized. An active Public Accounts Committee (the
first after 15 years) is reviewing the most current Audit report (FY 00). The autonomy and mandate of
the Public Service Commission has been significantly strengthened. There have been appreciable gains in
school enrollment and immunization, school management committees led by parents have been formed
and given wide powers, and absenteeism is being curtailed. Infrastructure maintenance has improved and
the regulatory framework has been streamlined.
4.     This proposed Sindh Structural Adjustment Credit (SSAC) follows nearly two years of dialogue
between the provincial Governments of Pakistan and the World Bank and is well anchored in the Country
Assistance Strategy (see paras 98 to 103). This dialogue with provincial Governments, starting with the
discussion on the report Reforming Provincial Finances (World Bank, October 2000), highlighted the
need for restructuring of provincial finances and improving governance, public service delivery, and the
investment climate in the context of a medium-term reform program. Sindh and NWFP are the first
provinces in Pakistan where these reforms and dialogue have matured sufficiently to propose lending
operations. The Bank has been providing technical assistance to the Sindh Government to weave its
various reform initiatives into an integrated reform program, place it in a medium-term framework, and
help implementation. Further, to support continuity of reforms after elected governments take office next
October, the GoS is building consensus behind this reform program through consultations with civil
society and development partners and building public-private partnerships. A highly successful Sindh
Development Forum was held in February 2002 to this end. The proposed credit is fully consistent with
the 2002 Pakistan Country Assistance Strategy's support for provincial reforns as a key plank of country
assistance.
5.     The proposed SSAC and the medium term fiscal restructuring plan that it supports is consistent
with Pakistan's medium term macroeconomic program and Pakistan's I-PRSP, the implementation of
lThe cwrent Governor, Minister of Finance, and odier key Cabinet rnmenbes were appointed in April 2000.



which are supported by the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF). Thus, the credit will
be a part of the overall financing of the agreed fiscal deficit for FY03 under the PRGF program. The
credit is consistent with the I-PRSP in terms of supporting specific poverty reduction measures and
targets identified in the I-PRSP (see para. 37 and Table 7).
II. THE COUNTRY CONTEXT
A. Pakistan's Reform Program and Recent Economic Developments
6.     In the 1990s, Pakistan's development slowed down markedly. Per capita growth rates fell from
3% in the 1980s to around 1.2% and poverty level and human development remained stagnant and even
deteriorated in some cases. Despite structural reforms in the 1990s that liberalized trade, the financial
sector and private sector investment in infrastructure, fiscal adjustment remained incomplete and the
country's governance and public institutions weakened through corruption and lack of accountability and
transparency. Thus, through most of the 1990s, inadequate resource mobilization constrained efforts to
reduce fiscal deficits and led to an average fiscal deficit of around 6% of GDP. The financing of these
deficits increased the already large public debt, leaving Pakistan in a precarious debt trap with its
problems compounded by the shock of the cutoff of external assistance after the nuclear explosion in
1998.
7.     Alongside the reversal of economic performance in the 1990s, the other unfortunate part in
Pakistan's performance is its persistently poor human development and the resultant social gap: i.e. the
gap in human development
between    Pakistan   and              Table 1: Pakistan's Social Indicators in Perspective
countries with comparable                                                    Predicted Values for
per  capita  income   (see                Indicators             Actual Values Countries with Similar
Table  1).    Thus, even                                         for Pabstan      Incomes
though Pakistan has grown    Child (Under Age 5) Mortality Rate (1998)  120.0      101.0
much faster than most other  % of childbirths with low birth-weight (1990s)  25.0  13.4
low-income countries, it has
faw-iedoto achuntieve  social  Public spending on health as % of GDP (1996)
failed to achieve social
progress    commensurate     Gross primary enrollment (1990s)       67.3           88.1
with  its  growth.    For     For females                           42.7           83.2
example,    while   infant   Illiteracy rate (1990s)                59.5           35.1
mortality   and    female     For females                            70.0          37.8
illiteracy rates declined by  Public spending on education as % of GDP  2.7         4.1
73% and 60 % respectively   (1990s)                                   .
from   1960  to  1998  in    Fertility rate (1998)                   4.9            4.3
countries that grew at about  Contraceptive prevalence rate          15.0          36.0
the same rate as Pakistan, in  Proportion of females in total population (1999)  48.2  50.3
Pakistan the decline was     Source: Development Policy Review-the World Bank, 2002.
much less, by 43 % and 20
%, respectively.
8.     Recognizing the importance of closing the social gap, the GoP launched a concerted effort in the
1990s through the Social Action Program (SAP) with strong donor support. The program had some
successes, perhaps most notably in reducing population growth, but its overall outcome was disappointing
partly because of a decline in expenditure toward the end of the decade, in the failure of educational
enrollments to rise, rising poverty in the second half of the 1990s and most importantly because of
governance and public service delivery failures. In general, in addition to inadequate and unstable
financing, poor financial management, lack of accountability and transparency in the performance of the
-2-



civil service and service delivery departments contributed to disappointing outcomes and the persistence
of the social gap.
9.     Thus, in addition to restoring growth, a key challenge for Pakistan is accelerating human
development to close the social gap. This is important both as an end in itself, but also for long-term
growth where human capital is at a premium. But addressing this social gap will require focusing on
improving economic management and governance in sub-national governments that actually provide
social services and key parts of the infrastructure, i.e. Pakistan's provincial governments and the newly
formed district governments. This issue is discussed in some detail in Section B, next page.
10.    Since taking office.in October 1999, the Federal Government of Pakistan (GoP) has been
implementing a bold and comprehensive program of reforms to attack the twin problems of
macroeconomic fragility and poor governance. This program, embedded in a comprehensive poverty
reduction strategy, was presented in the I-PRSP and discussed in the Boards of the World Bank and the
IMF in December 2001. The I-PRSP specified four main goals of policy in the years ahead: engendering
growth, reforming governance, creating income generating opportunities (specifically for the poor),
improving human development, and reducing vulnerability to shocks (at the microeconomic level). 2
11.   The implementation of the I-PRSP strategy is proceeding well. To create a climate conducive for
faster growth, the GoP's focus has been on strengthening the macroeconomic framework by improving
fiscal and external balances.and reducing the debt burden. In the structural area, GoP has launched
reforms to improve the governance of the financial sector and utilities and reducing distortions in pricing.
Subsidies are being withdrawn from agricultural products while restrictions on private sector participation
have been lifted, and a concerted effort is underway to increase cost recovery to finance irrigation
maintenance and provide incentive for more efficient use of water.
12.   Governance reforms have focused on increasing the effectiveness of key institutions in the
country such as the State Bank of Pakistan, the Central Board of Revenue, the Pakistan Auditor General's
Office, the National Accountability Bureau, the Controller General of Accounts' office, Public Service
Commissions, Public Accounts Committees and the police and judicial systems. The principle has been
to enhance autonomy and authority of these bodies to protect them from politically motivated
interference, while increasing the transparency and accountability of their performance. A far-reaching
devolution program (see para. 18 and Annex D) has been launched to bring government closer to the
people through electing local Governments with the mandate to deliver a wide range of services.
13.   The GoP has put in place strategies for improving service delivery in education and health, with a
view to accelerating human development. In addition, the GoP is also earmarking greater .public
resources for these services while ensuring there is improvement in financial management to increase the
effectiveness of these expenditures. To ensure social protection and safety nets for the large number of
those Pakistanis whose incomes are clustered around the poverty line and are vulnerable to exogenous
shocks, the GoP has also introduced micro-finance and public works programs like the Khushali Bank
Limited and the Khushal Pakistan Program (KPP), respectively. Along with the KPP; the Pakistan
Poverty Alleviation Fund -a social fund-provides assistance to communities to build infrastructure
based on demand by the communities.
14.   These reforms, supported by an IMF PRGF and a World Bank adjustment credit have started to
show results (See Table I of Annex I for Pakistan's macroeconomic indicators). Despite the most severe
drought in recorded history, GDP grew by 2.7 % in FY01 and is expected to grow by 3.3 % in FY 02.
Greater exchange-rate flexibility helped to achieve strong export growth (9 %) last year. Manufacturing
2See Paldstan CAS (May 2002), and the MOP for Paldstan SAC n1 for details.
-3-



sector growth was also strong at about 8 % in FY 01, and for the first time in years, growth was recorded
across all industrial groups. For the first time in a decade, an IMF program - the Stand By Program
approved in November 2000 - was successfully concluded. The subsequent three-year IMF PRGF
supported GoP macroeconomic program envisages a substantial reduction in the fiscal deficit (excluding
grants) from 5.7% (in FY 02) to 4.4 % in FY 03. The program also targets a relatively rapid recovery of
GDP growth rates from 3.3 % in FY 02 to 5.2 % in FY 04. Growth is predicated on an increase of
domestic (public) savings and investment by about 2 % points of GDP each year over the three-year
program, and a strong increase in the efficiency of investment.
B. The Role of the Provinces and the Devolution Program
15.    Pakistan is a federation of 4 provinces3 and 7 tribal areas. While the overall reform leadership is
provided at the Federal level, it is recognized that making a significant dent in reducing human and
income poverty will require deepening the reform program to the provincial and local government levels.
Pakistan's 1973 constitution grants major responsibility to the provinces for providing social services,
irrigation, agriculture, and roads infrastructure. Accordingly, provincial expenditures account for 80
percent of total government spending in these areas. Most tax authority, though, is concentrated with the
Federal Government, and Federal transfers (based on the awards of the National Finance Commission;
see para. 20 and Annex D) account for around 80% of provincial resources4. Total provincial government
spending is only around 24% of total government spending reflecting the low resources for basic
government services.
16.    Pakistan's provinces are now facing a crisis in public finances, civil service performance, and
public service delivery. Lack of fiscal space for poverty reducing expenditures, narrow tax bases, a large
but mainly unskilled civil service, poor accountability and transparency have resulted in the provinces
suffering from deficits (shortfalls of spending and service delivery relative to needs) in the funding and
delivery of social services (education, health, rural water supply and sanitation). Similarly, infrastructure
deficits (roads, irrigation and drainage, and municipal services) increase the cost of doing business and
impose a heavy burden on the economy and the people. Multiple provincial regulatory agencies harass
the private sector and discourage entrepreneurship and economic activity. The police is widely perceived
as ineffective and corrupt, while the judicial services are subject to long delays and are also seen as
sometimes corrupt and out of reach of the average citizen, let alone the poor. In particular, the
concentration of powers in remote provincial Governments, lack of accountability of the provincial civil
service to service recipients and communities, and feeble local Governments failed to respond to the
needs of the people.
17.    There is now a major opportunity for the provinces to turn around the performance of their public
sectors within the context of multi-tier reforms now  taking place.  The Federal government is
implementing comprehensive reforms to accelerate growth and reduce poverty. Provincial governments
have also initiated a number of promising reforms to improve their governance, public finances and
public service delivery systems. Finally, Pakistan's devolution plan presents a major opportunity to
reverse decades of over-centralization of public sector management by creating more accountable elected
local governments, which would be responsible for the provision of local public services.
18.    Under Pakistan's radical devolution program5 6,455 new local Governments6 have been elected
and given the responsibility of providing a wide range of public services including primary education,
3 Balochistan, NWFP, Punjab and Sindh.
4 This share varies between provinces, with Punjab and Sindh being relatively less dependent on Federal transfers.
5 Formalized by the Local Govemment Ordinances promulgated by the provinces in July 2001.
6 Comprising 96 city /districts govemments, 337 townlTehsil Governments, and 6,022 union Governments.
4-



health and sanitation, drinking water, law and order, agricultural extension, and district roads (see Annex
D, Table 2 for details). While remarkable progress has been made in FY 02 in holding local government
elections, setting up local Governments institutions and departments, clarifying roles and functions, and
staffing local Governments (see Annex D), implementation of the devolution plan is still in its early
stages.  In particular, the province-local govermnent fiscal framework remains to be clarified and
implementation is likely to be gradual and a number of issues are still pending (see Para. 52 and Annex
D).
19.    The provinces will retain a key role even under devolution for two reasons. First, the provinces
will continue to be responsible for critical province-wide functions, including managing the consolidated
provincial finances and fiscal transfers to local governments; executing provincial development programs;
delivering province-wide services such as irrigation, road networks and tertiary services; undertaking
monitoring and evaluation; and providing the regulatory framework for the private sector. Second,
decentralization will be more effective if key provincial reforms are implemented. These include: fiscal
restructuring to provide greater non-salary budgets for local governments, civil service reforms to right-
size the civil service and not burden district Governments with excessive staff, improving governance and
accountability rules so that these strengthen and not hinder local Governments, setting up good
monitoring and evaluation systems to monitor pro-poor expenditures and development objectives, and
strengthening local Government capacity.
20.    In order to ensure that provincial and district Governments can deliver results, administrative and
expenditure assignments will need to be matched effectively with an appropriate fiscal framework.
Currently, Pakistan's Federal-Provincial inter-governmental fiscal framework is constitutionally defined
and based on the Pakistan's National Finance Commission's (NFC) awards announced every five years.
The main source of provincial revenues (around 80%) is a transfer based on a share of federal tax
collections that are to be shared (the "divisible pool") and the ratio of the provincial/federal share of the
pool; the formula for its distribution to the provinces are fixed once every five years (Constitutional
provision) by the NFC.7 The NFC last rendered an Award in 1996, allocating to the provinces 37.5% of
the divisible pool with the distribution to the provinces by population (based on the 1981 Census of
Population). This divisible pool, which is about Rs. 430 billion in FY 02, is made up of the income tax
(35 %), sales tax (42%), revenues from customs (16%), and federal excises, wealth, and capital value
taxes (7%). In addition, various other tax transfers and grants are made by the federal government to the
provinces. This includes some federally ceded taxes owned by the provinces and referred to as straight
transfers, which are returned to the provinces on a derivation basis net of a 2% federal collection charge
(e.g., royalties on petroleum and on natural gas, and surcharges and excise on natural gas are all important
for Sindh).
21.    The provinces' "own" tax base are narrow-less than 1% of the Gross Provincial Development
Product (GPDP)8-and lack buoyancy. These taxes consist, in order of their contributions, mainly of
stamp duties, motor vehicle taxes, the property tax (which are ceded to the municipalities/Tehsils), the
agriculture income taxes and land revenues, registration fees, and other small taxes. Irrigation charges
and various administrative fees provide the bulk of non-tax revenues. However, the potential yield of
both tax and non-tax instruments is significantly larger than at present, and provinces like NWFP and
Sindh are making a concerted effort to increase revenues as part of the provincial reform programs.
7 The NFC members are the federal Finance Minister, the finance ministers of each of the four provinces, plus other members as the
President chooses.
'The Gross Provincial Development Product estimates for Sindh are unofficial estimates based on paper by Kaiser
Bengali"Regional Accounts of Pakistan 1991-95", 1997 and then estimated for future years using same sectoral growth rates as
those for Pakistan



22.    Notwithstanding its clarity, the current Federal-provincial fiscal arrangements have led to high
vertical imbalance and its implementation has suffered from volatility in Federal revenue coliections.
These features, combined with the volatility of federal transfers (with an average shortfall of around 8 to
9% in an average year) and deterioration in governance in the provinces have undermined fiscal
management, public service delivery and accountability in Pakistan's provinces.
23.    The next National Finance Commission award is now due, but is likely to be delayed by one year
with the current formula continuing in the interim. Various possibilities are under study both with respect
to the size of the provincial share of the divisible pool and the distribution formula. There are also
discussions that more taxes be ceded from the federal government to the provincial governments. At
present, only population is used with a 10% addition to the award for backwardness that is provided to
Balochistan and NWFP. While not definite, the indications are that provincial shares in revenues will
increase to respond to the imbalances between expenditure assignments and resource availability.
Discussions are also underway to better link resource allocations with performance.
24.    Analogous to the National Finance Commission, a Provincial Finance Commission (PFC) has
been constituted in Sindh and other provinces to design mechanisms for fiscal transfers from provinces to
district and sub-districts such that the new local Governments have adequate financing to carry out their
mandates. At present, except for Tehsil/Town governments who have the property tax and get OZT
transfers from the Federal Government, the district and union councils are almost wholly dependent on
transfers from the provinces. In FY 2002, most of the provincial to district grants, except for some
development and KPP (public works programs) funds, were transferred to the district as tied grants.
Together, tied and untied grants to lower tiers of Governments rnade up 35% of provincial expenditures.
The PFCs are now considering criteria such as population, backwardness, fiscal effort and performance
indicators as factors determining the transfer of provincial funds. In a welcome development, PFCs are
also considering setting up tied or conditional grants for districts to link resource allocations to
performance. However, given the delay in announcing NFC awards, it is likely that the PFC awards or
any other province-district fiscal transfer arrangements for FY 03 is likely to be an interim arrangement.
III. SINDH: THE PROVINCIAL CONTEXT
25.    Sindh is the home of Karachi, the commercial hub and the gateway of Pakistan. Accordingly,
reforms in Sindh will have positive spillover effects for all of Pakistan. It is also the second largest
province, the home of 30 million people (23% of Pakistan's population), the most urbanized (with 49% of
population living in urban areas), and the producer of around 29% of national GDP. Sindh's economy is
relatively industrialized with industry accounting for 28% of the GPDP (with manufacturing accounting
for 16%), followed by agriculture (23% of the economy), commerce (17%), and transport and
communications (12%).
26.   In terms of human development, Sindh is an extremity within Pakistan. Pakistan has a very large
rural-urban gap and, as noted, a dramatic social gap in terms of human development. Within Pakistan,
Sindh has the largest rural-urban gap and the largest social gap in human development (see Table 2). It
has the highest per-capita incomes, but its human development indicators in rural areas were among the
worst in Pakistan in FY 99.
-6-



Table 2: Provincial and Urban Rural Differences in Selected Human Development Indicators (1998-99)
Infant       Incidence of       Pre-natal        Ever Use
Male Literacy  Ferale   Mortality (Per    Diarrheag      Consultation    Contraception:
Rate       Literacy   1000 Live      ilren o  8e 5    for Women     Married Women of
Rate       Births)        and Below          (°/O)        Age 15-49 (%/6)
Rural:
Punjab           50.1       20.0        101.7            13.9            24.6             18.0
Sindh            52.3        11.2       102.7            8.7              19.0             7.9
NWFP             51.5        11.4        58.7            15.6             19.6             13.9
Balochistan      47.2        6.8        75.1             9.9              14.9             5.7
Azad J & K       77.3       37.9        48.0             8.4             32.7             16.0
Urban:
Punjab           71.2       53.6        70.6             10.5             57.9            33.9
Sindh           77.5        54.9        67.1             11.7             70.4            36.4
NWFP             65.5        35.2       62.0             11.7             36.0            27.2
Balochistan      70.9       32.5        120.6            10.7             42.5            24.0
Azad J & K       85.2       58.0        63.2             12.8             61.3            40.0
Source: Poverty in Pakistan in the 1990s: An Interim Assessment, South Asia Region, The World Bank, 2001.
A. Poverty and Human Development
27.     Poverty is pervasive and deep, especially in rural Sindh.   Alongside the presence of large
manufacturing, finance, and private sectors in Karachi, rural Sindh is characterized by poor social
services, large gender disparity, landlessness, and high dependence on the public sector. Whereas 19% of
urban Sindhis are poor, as many as 37% of rural Sindhis are poor (which is higher than Pakistan's average
of 33%).
28.     The poverty profile of Sindh (See Annex C) suggests that the typical poor household in Sindh
lives in rural areas, has little assets or land, depends on wage income, and has a significantly larger'
household than the non-poor or even compared to the average poor people of Pakistan. The poor also
tend to be employed mostly in the informal sector in the urban areas and as agriculture wageworkers in
the rural areas. In rural Sindh, the concentration of poor is the highest among households where the head
is an unpaid family worker, sharecropper, or owner-cultivator owning less than 2 hectares of land
(poverty headcounts of 60%, 50% and 40% respectively).
29.     The poor in Sindh suffer from low quality public services, especially in rural areas. They have
relatively low access to safe drinking water and sanitation facilities: they are less likely to use closed
sources of drinking water, have toilets in the household, and be connected to a drainage system.
Availability of all these amenities is also characterized by large rural-urban gaps, which is worse than the
rest of Pakistan. For example, while 31% of the population of rural Pakistan is connected to drainage
systems, the same is true for only 14% of the population of rural Sindh. More than 55% of Sindh's public
elementary schools do not have water connections or toilet facilities. This has the implications, given that
rural poverty in Sindh is higher than the country average, that the poor in rural Sindh suffer from
especially severe lack of connectivity to critical facilities, which is likely to have strong impact on their
health.
-7-



Table 3: Trends in Social Indicators in Sindh
30.     Rural Sindh IS highly
dependent on public services.                                                      1990-91 1995496 1998-99
Whereas the private sector is a  Percentage of children between 12 and 23 months who are
big  player in   urban   Sindh   fully Immunized
(providing for 40% of primary    Overall, both sexes                                 16     44    38
enrollment and half of medical      Male                                             20     42    42
beds), it has little role in rural  Female                                          '12     46    35
Sindh   in  primary  education   Rural, both sexes                                   5      46    27
(private primary enrollment is      Male                                             3      45    31
only  5%) or in     preventive      Female                                           6      48    24
health care. Thus, reforms to
improvae.pubc,        sefrm    t  Births Attended by Skilled Health Staff            23     28    28
improve      pUbliC     servisce
delivery, along with reforms to  Contraceptive Prevalence Rates                       8     16    17
stimulate  rural growth-that Net Primary Enrollment                                  39     45    41
can rise agricultural and non-
agriculture  wages-will     be   Ratio of Girls to Boys in Primary Schools                  54    55
fundamental     for   reducing   Percentage of rural households with access to clean water  74  68  61
poverty in rural Sindh.          Source: Sindh: Social Action Program SAPP H Mid-Term Review, PIHS, 1999.
B. Deterioration in Governance and Economic Management
31.     The deterioration in govemance in Sindh has been severe, with debilitating results. Poverty
increased while key human indicators such as net primary school enrollment and access to drinking water
declined in the second half of the 1990s (see Table 3 and Annex C). The quality of public services has
also been extremely poor. In the education sector, for example, a third of Sindh's elementary schools
were shelter less and more than a half lacked water supply or toilet facilities in 200 1.
32.     Fiscal and financial mismanagement resulted in decreasing fiscal space (See Fig. 1 below) for
high priority expenditures. Between FY 90 and FY 00, the share of operations and maintenance and
develdpment expenditures fell from 32% of all expenditures to 15%. Higher expenditures on politically
motivated increases in the civil service and development projects in the early 1990s led to large arrears
Figure 1: Sindh: Decreasing Fiscal Space
Otherdl999/00
4%                                     Development 5%
7%
Developmert                     Pi!nnel
Debt Repai~~~Penrmalt 
36%
ii  *II:~~~~~~~~'i.~~~~~, ~PernonrcI
Vi                                                     Expeunditu.re
Ii           ~~~~~~Debit Servicing           .7
f               ~~~~~33%
Repair and
Debt  "   :Maintenance                                       a n
Savrici          Conmodities 5%                     Commodities Maintenance
28%             and Servicas                       andServices  3%
5%                                 5%
Source: GoS Appropriation Accounts: Note: Federal Government Compensatory OZT transfers to Local Governments have
been removed from FY 2000 accounts to make the two years comparable.
-8-



and overdrafts (more than 2% of GPDP, at end-FYOO) and extensive borrowing from federal loans
(equivalent to 60% of provincial tax revenues) in the last three years such borrowing was allowed. But
much of these resources were wasted as the quality of public expenditures fell, and accountability eroded
as the Public Accounts Committee did not function since 1986.
33.    The civil service got bloated as its quality fell. The number of civil servants increased by 56%
(between 1987-1995) and support staff of grades 1 to 5, many of whom are illiterate, make up more than
43% of the civil service. Even in the case of teachers, where recruitment was extensive - reaching
teacher student ratios of I to 21 - as many as 12,000 of the current teachers are formally rated as
unqualified.
34.    The burden of poor law and order, complex regulations, and poor governance made the
investment climate hostile and manufacturing units migrated from Sindh or closed down.9 Growth rates
fell, especially in manufacturing, which decelerated faster in Sindh than the national average.
35.    While the agriculture                  Table 4: Growth Rates in Slndh
sector growth increased, it was
highly  volatile  -  due  to                               197172-1989/9O  1989/90-1998/99
dependence on rainfall. As a   Pakdstan (compound growth rates)
result, the poverty reducing        GDP                          5.9           4.1
impact was   limited.   The         Manufacturing                7.2            5.3
irrigation      infrastructure      Agriculture                  3.0            4.0
increasingly depreciated due to  Sindh
lack of repairs and maintenance.    GDP                          4.9           3.6
Excessive  salinity  in  the        Manufacturing                5.7           3.1
province is estimated to reduce     Agriculture                  2.3           4.2
cropping  productivity  of its  Source: Kaisar Bengali, Background Paper, 1996.
main   crops-cotton,  wheat,
sugar cane and irri rice-by around 40%. However, one encouraging trend has been the growing
diversity though significant value-added in fisheries and fruit farming.
IV. THE GOVERNMENT OF SINDH'S REFORM PROGRAM
36.    Cognizant of the urgency to address these issues, the GoS is implementing reforms with the over-
arching objective of reducing poverty by promoting growth and accelerating human development. This
program, which will be the basis for a more fully developed poverty reduction strategy, has three pillars:
(i) fiscal restructuring is the starting point as this will provide more resources for poverty reducing
expenditures and infrastructure services within a sustainable fiscal framework and financial management
reforms will help to ensure that these resources are spent effectively; (ii) improving public service
delivery through civil service reforms, decentralization, and reforms in health, education, drinking water,
and urban services will help to accelerate human development and achieve rmillennium development
goals; and (iii) regulatory reforms, privatization and infrastructure improvements to stimulate private
sector activity and economic revival will help to increase incomes and employment. This section
discusses the reform program of the GoS in all these areas. However, the proposed Structural Adjustment
Credit will be triggered by a much more selective set of measures as prior actions, as presented in Box 3
in Section IV.
9 World Bank South Asia Region, Punjab Background Note, April 2000.
-9-



37.    The GoS's reform program is fully consistent with the I-PRSP issued by the GoP in November
2001. This is true both in terms of reform measures that the GoS is implementing and the development
objectives of the reform program. Like the I-PRSP, the GoS's reform program undertakes the following
measures: fiscal adjustment to increase public savings and increase allocations for poverty reducing
expenditures. The reforms improve financial management and civil service accountability. Service
delivery is improved through better govemance, rehabilitation of existing facilities, partnerships with
communities, NGOs, and parents, controlling absenteeism, and better monitoring and information. It
introduces National Education Assessment Schemes to the provinces and it introduces annual third party
validation schemes. In addition, both the GoS's reform program and the I-PRSP share a number of
common targets such as increasing poverty reducing expenditures. The key GoS's reform target
indicators (as defined in Table 7) are consistent with those of the I-PRSP and the millennium
development goals.
A. Pillar One: Fiscal and Financial Management Reforms
Fiscal Management
38.    Issues. The Govemment faces five major fiscal issues: (i) lack of fiscal space for poverty
reducing expenditures; (ii) a complex tax structure and weak tax administration; (iii) poor composition of
expenditures; (iv) designing and implementing fiscal decentralization; and (v) the absence of a medium-
term fiscal restructuring plan to address fiscal issues in a comprehensive manner.
39.    There is a severe lack of fiscal space (see Figure 1) for high priority expenditures due to rigidities
in revenues and expenditures. On the revenue side, the tax base is narrow (0.8% of GPDP) as the Federal
Government pre-empts the currently important tax bases - such as the income and sales taxes. Sindh's
own tax and non-tax revenues (1.7% of GPDP)'0 provide for only 24% of its resources." Limited
resources and inflexible expenditures (wages, pension, debt servicing and amortization account for around
80% of expenditures) cause rigidities on the expenditure side. The lack of fiscal space is causing the
under-funding of vital human development and infrastructure expenditures and undermining future
growth and poverty reduction prospects.
40.    A complex and distortionary provincial tax system with 23 major and minor taxes'2 and a weak
tax administration have long prevented the province from reaching even its limited revenue potential
(estimated to be roughly 2.7% of GPDP). While impressive progress has been made in rationalizing the
provincial structure in the past two years, tax administration is a constraint as it is bifurcated into two
departments: the Board of Revenue which collects stamp duties, land and agriculture income taxes and
abiana (irrigation charges) and the Excise and Taxation department which collects the property,
infrastructure cess, and other taxes. In the case of the Board of Revenue, antiquated land records, lack of
computerization, the key role of a lowly paid "tapedar" who exercises wide powers in both assessing and
collecting land and agricultural income tax (AIT) prevents this important source of tax from yielding its
potential.
41.    The composition of public expenditures has been poor. Sindh's expenditures on development and
operations and maintenance in FY 00 was only 15% of all expenditures, a sharp fall from a 32% share, 10
years ago. Moreover, though development expenditures fell, the number of projects proliferated,
spreading resources thinly, delaying the completion of projects and making the returns to investment fall.
The backlog of road rehabilitation expenditures alone is estimated to be around 0.8% of GPDP. Spending
10 Obtained from stamp duties, motor vehicle taxes, property taxes, agriculture income taxes, infiastructure cess, royalty on gas and oil,
and user charges.
" Note though, Sindh's share of provinces own revenues to al revenues is higher than other provinces.
12 The tax structure has been simplified in FY 01.
-10-



on education, and health, is oply around 1.7% of the GPDP - compared to 4.5% of GDP spent by Sri
Lanka. Further, expenditures on salaries dominate (94% of the current education budget, and 70% of the
current health budget).
42.    Budget management has been weak in the past. Poor budget preparation, monitoring and
implementation also adversely affect expenditure quality as budgets are de-linked from outcomes, and
complicated fund release procedures and shortfalls in Federal tax transfers have typically lead to
unreliable funding for the social sectors. Outmoded budget classification including the absence of object
classification, poor accounts, and lack of monitoring have all resulted in poor development outcomes and
large deviations between budgeted and actual expenditures, resulting in shortfalls in social sectors and
development expenditures. Further, while provinces have had hard budgets after the cancellation of
Federal loan facilities in FY 1999 and borrowing is ostensibly limited to SBP overdraft facilities, in
practice provincial deficits have been financed by arrears, financing from surplus receipts of the
provincial General Provident Fund and the various public fund accounts held by the province. Thus, the
accumulated liability in the General Provident Fund is Rs.16 billion, i.e. more than all provincial
revenues.
43.   In addition to tackling the above issues, the GoS needs to implement a program of fiscal
decentralization to support the devolution plan of Pakistan. This will require the province to set up an
inter-governmental fiscal framework between the province and the newly formed district, sub-district and
union council governments. Some difficult fiscal issues are pending: uneven distribution of tax bases
with district Governments being relatively deprived and lower tier municipalVTaluqa governments faring
better. On the other hand, currently, lower tier governments are suffering from the delay in obtaining
funds. Further, the roles of the District Councils and the quasi-public Citizen Community Boards in using
the development budget are still not fully clarified.
44.    Objectives of Reforms: To address the above issues, the GoS's fiscal reforms have the
following objectives: (i) creating more fiscal space by raising revenues and reducing future liabilities; (ii)
increasing pro-poor expenditures while improving financial management (dealt separately in 'the
following section) to make these expenditures more effective; (iii) implementing fiscal decentralization;
and (iv) implementing a medium-term fiscal restructuring plan (MTFRP), including administrative
reforms, that addresses these goals in a medium-term context.
Status of Implementation
45.    Reforms by the GoS to increase fiscal space have included tax measures to raise revenues and
reducing liabilities. These include: (i) simplifying taxes by reducing the number from 23 to 10; (ii)
introducing agriculture income tax in October 2001 for landowners with holdings above 50 acres or with
income above Rs. 80,000; and (iii) expanding the base of the Urban Immovable Property Tax (UIPT) by
conducting a survey of properties after 32 years, and adding 100,000 new properties to the base and
reducing rates; and (iv) rationalizing the number and rates of stamp duties and converting these into ad-
valorem rates. These measures helped to increase provincial tax revenues by 27% in FY01 and an
estimated'3 15% in FY 02. On the liability side, GoS retired arrears of around 1.1% of GPDP in FY 01
and is retiring 1% this year. GoS is now planning for further liability (such as capitalizing the G.P and
pension funds and accelerated repayment of expensive debt) reduction in the medium-term (see para. 56).
46.    While significant structural reforms have taken place, the significant potential yield from the
AIT-a more than three time increase from its current levels to nearly Rs. 2.0 billion-will require major
administrative and legal changes. The GoS's reforms have changed the structure of AIT from a crop-
13Based on end-March numbers and discussions with Departnent of Finance.
-11-



cum-land-based system to a tax, which is a combination of a farm and income tax. While all farmers are
to pay an annual farm tax at the rate of Rs. 200 and Rs. 100 per acre of cultivated area for irrigated and
un-irrigated land holdings respectively, all farmers with incomes above Rs. 80,000 would pay an
additional income tax in the same manner as applies to non-agricultural income and regardless of land
holdings. However, the exemption limit of this tax is twice the level for the non-agricultural income.
47.    Serious problems with tax administration in the Board of Revenue (see Para 54) and, more
fundamentally, in title registration, however, need to be addressed before significant increase in revenue
yields can be obtained. The latter includes the notorious "benami" provision under which, land can be
sub-divided to fall below the threshold and then held under fictitious names. However, changes in the
"benami law" will require Federal Government intervention.
48.    To improve the composition of public expenditures, the GoS has increased allocations for high
priority expenditures and increased the focus of development expenditures on implementation. Non-
salary provision for the education sector was doubled in the FY 02 budget from last year while for health
it has increased by 16%. Around 75% of the FY 02 own-financed annual development program budget
was allocated for investment of on-going schemes focused on rural infrastructure, drinking water, and the
social sectors. Because of this ongoing focus on implementation, the number of projects in the portfolio
has fallen from 1500 in July 2000 to 900 at present, and expected to fall further to less than 700 by July
2002. On the other hand, reversing a long decline, the size of the development budget increased by 66%
inFY 02.
49.    The GoS is improving budget implementation and fiscal transparency.  Overall, budget
implementation is expected to be on track in FY 02 and the picture looks more optimistic than a few
months ago. The GoS is already posting quarterly fiscal reports in the GoP's website, but these were
based on "un-reconciled" accounts. To further strengthen budget implementation and transparency, GoS
has started posting quarterly fiscal monitoring reports in the GoS's Finance Department website
(www.financedeptsindh.gov.pk) based on improved accounts. To help budget implementation, fund
release procedures for high priority sectors have been streamlined by removing the requirements for a
second round of clearance (financial release orders) from the P&D and the Finance department. Thus,
100% of the annual social sector non-salary budgets were released by January.
50.   Implementation of the budget was difficult in the first half of the current fiscal year but has
improved in the recent months. Overall, there has been a shortfall in Federal Government transfers (by
8%) and, earlier in the year, provincial collections (35% of the year target was collected by end-December
against the targeted collection of 40%). Continuing drought and tax administration problems resulted in
lower agriculture income taxes and irrigation fees collections, and the overall slowdown in economic
activity lowered stamp duty collections. However, these shortfalls were largely offset by robust increases
in property tax and motor vehicle taxes, and an increase in non-tax revenues due to increase in the leasing
rates of public lands, and provincial tax collection is expected to be on target with around 14% growth in
FY 03. Significantly, lower spending on subsidies (only 30% of budget in the first 8 months), and
administrative expenditures (37%) has allowed the province's overall fiscal position to stay balanced.
51.    The pace of current expenditures was slow in the first half of the year mainly due to the start-up
problems of new district Governments and setting up of district accounts, but these have been completed
now. The full annual social sector non-salary budgets were released by January and have been passed to
district Government accounts as appropriate and it is expected that the districts will be able to utilize most
of the budgeted expenditures. Subsequently, expenditures on social services and economic services have
been 57% and 65% of the budget respectively at end-February (against expected spending of 60%), The
pace of spending of development expenditures has been healthy and development spending is expected to
be 47% higher than the last year. Mainly owing to the streamlining in fund release procedures, the
-12-



implementation of the FY 02 expenditures represents a significant improvement over the situation in FY
01 when significant elements of the non-salary expenditures were only released in the last quarter.
52.    The GoS has implemented the first phase of fiscal decentralization. It has prepared budgets for
district governments by unbundling the provincial FY02 budget and released non-salary funds to the
district governments at the beginning of the year for re-appropriation. Sindh is the first province to
authorize the District Development Working Party to approve projects costing up to Rs 20 million and
has transferred around 733 development schemes, including the Khushal Pakistan Program (KPP, a pro-
poor public works program), rural water supply and road schemes to the districts. The Sindh Provincial
Finance Commission (SPFC) is preparing formula based mechanisms to distribute funds to districts.
However, progress in the work of both NFC and PFC remains behind schedule and difficult issues are
still pending (see para 43). It is likely that FY 03 will continue to be a transition year, based on an interim
PFC Award some other transfer arrangements as in FY 02: e.g. some parts of the development budget and
KPP funds could be transferred as block grants, butimportant parts of the district budget will be prepared
and transferred as tied grants, especially in the areas of poverty reducing non-salary expenditures.
Medium Term Reforms
53.    The GoS faces three major fiscal tasks in the medium term. The first task will be to implement
fiscal decentralization as per plans approved under provincial finance commission awards. The aim will
be to increase capacity of districts to raise revenues and prepare their own budgets, and implement a
transparent formula driven process to provide untied grants to the districts, but also include an adequate
system of incentives through conditional and matching grants to achieve national and provincial social
development targets, as has been initiated in the current fiscal year.
54.    The second task will be to strengthen tax administration. Specifically, the GoS will take
measures to integrate the revenue collection responsibilities of the Board of Revenue (responsible for land
taxes, the agriculture income tax, abiana/irrigation charges, and stamp duties) and the Excise and
Taxation department into a modem, relatively autonomous, revenue department/authority, reporting to the
Finance Department. The technical capacity of the revenue department will be strengthened through
computerizing of land and property records, using partial satellite imaging and providing greater technical
training and incentives for staff. The tasks of collection and assessment of the major taxes will also be
separated to avoid conflict of interest. While these measures will be undertaken over the next two years,
GoS will also make arrangements in early FY 03 to merge the two revenue departments and bring both
the new revenue and Finance departments under the command of a single Minister as in the Federal
Government.
55.    The third major task will be to implement a medium term fiscal restructuring plan (MTFRP)
covering the period from FY 03 to FY 06 (See Table 1 below and Annex E provides details). The focus
of this plan will be to create fiscal space for poverty reducing current and development expenditures. The
fiscal space is created from three sources significantly higher non-tax revenues (from new oil and gas
revenues from production in three new fields in Sindh that are collected by the Federal Government and
returned to the province), higher foreign aid (from ADB, other donors, and the Bank), and from increases
in provincial tax effort with revenues rising by 15% p.a.
56.    Discussions between the Bank and the GoS have been finalized on the MTFRP presented in the
next page though this will have to be adjusted to reflect possible new Federal-provincial revenue sharing
arrangements that are expected in future years. The plan has been prepared with arrangements for
adjustments to possible changes in revenues due to future National Finance Commission and Provincial
Finance Commission Awards. However, the plan as presented below is conservative in that it assumes
that the continuation of the current NFC formula, whereas the expectation is the new NFC awards will
-13-



allocate higher revenue shares to the provinces through either greater shares of the provinces in divisible
pool or through ceding additional taxes. The proposed plan is for the consolidated provincial finances
and is presented in broad economic classifications and readily adaptable to future PFC awards. When the
PFC award is known, the task will be to separate out provincial and non-provincial shares of the budget
and allocate the non-salary operations and maintenance and development expenditures between the
province and the districts. For the districts, depending on the PFC formula or the interim arrangements
for FY 03, the transfer will take place through a combination of formula based untied grants and tied
grants to allocate development and O&M expenditures (salary expenditures being tied). The salient
points of the medium term program are highlighted in Tables 5 and 6 and the discussion below:
Table 5: Sindh - Public Finances, 1999/00-2005/06
(Percent of provincial GDP F
1999/00   2000/01   2001/02                 Projections
Actual    Actual   P. Estimate  2002/03  2003/04  2004/05   2005/06
Total Revenues and Grants                 6.2       6.2         6.8       7.0      7.0       7.2       7.4
Federal Tax Transfers                    4.0      4.1         4.4       4.3       4.4      4.5       4.7
Provincial Revenues                      1.4       1.6         1.7      2.0       2.0       2.1      2.1
Federal Grants                           0.7      0.6         0.7       0.6       0.6       0.6      0.6
Total Expenditures                        6.1       6.0         6.9       7.3      7.5       7.6       7.4
Development Expenditures                 0.4       0.5         0.8       1.3       1.4      1.3       1.3
Fiscal Balance with Severance Payments   0.0      0.2        -0.1      -0.3      -0.4      -0.4      0.0
Primary Fiscal Balance                   1.3      1.3          1.0      0.7       0.5       0.5      0.8
Public Savings                           0.5      0.8         0.7       0.9       1.2       1.2      1.3
Table 6: Composition of Expenditures, 1999/00-2005/06
(Percent of Provincial Expenditures)
1999/00   2000/01   2001/02                 Projections
Actual    Actual   P. Estinmate 1 2002/03  2003/04  2004/05  2005/06
Share of total expenditures
Total Expenditures                      100.0     100.0       100.0     100.0     100.0    100.0     100.0
Current Expenditures                     92.8      90.9        87.7      82.6     77.6      79.3      82.2
Wages and Pension                       46.3     45.8         47.6     48.4      46.1      44.2     43.9
Operations and Maintenance               8.5      9.5          9.3     10.2       9.3      12.5      15.7
InterestPayments                        21.1      17.5        15.4     14.0      13.0      11.8      11.2
Subsidies                               0.7       6.3         6.4       1.2      0.7       0.5       0.3
Grants to L.G. and Investments          16.2     11.8         9.0       8.8       8.5     10.4      11.1
Provision for Severence Package                                                   3.1      2.8
Development Expenditures                  7.2       9.1        12.3      17.4      19.3     17.8      17.8
Share of current expenditures
Health and Education Currrent Expenditures  28.2  28.3        33.5      36.7      38.3     37.7      39.0
Share of O&M in Healith and Education     8.9      10.7        11.8      17.7      19.6     22.5      27.3
Source: Department of Finance and Bank Staff Estimates
*   The first year of the MTFRP will be reflected in the GoS's budget for FY 2002/03 with the following
targets: (a) provincial tax revenues collections; (ii) AlT/land taxes, Abiana, and property taxes; (iii)
aggregate   expenditures ceilings; (iv) wage        and   establishment costs ceilings;       (v) non-salary
expenditures in primary education, health, and drinking water; and (vi) operations and maintenance
expenditures. Targets for items (v) and (vi) will be adjusted based on resource availability. If NFC
and straight transfers based Federal transfers increase, then these expenditures will increase in the
same proportion. If Federal transfer or provincial revenues fall then these items will be protected in
their Rupee terms. The poverty reducing expenditure targets on health, education, and drinking water
will be transferred, as needed, to the district and Tehsil Governments as tied grants (as it is already
the case this year with RWSS schemes). In addition to these items, the GoS will also give high
priority in allocating additional resources for the maintenance and rehabilitation of rural
infrastructure. The implementation of overall revenue and expenditure targets, as well as high
priority expenditure targets will be reported in the quarterly fiscal monitoring report.
-14-



*   The fiscal program aims to raise public savings for the province through: (i) revenue measures; (ii)
increasing cost recovery; (iii) reducing undirected subsidies; (iv) tbhough investrnent of all G.P.
(pension) finds current surpluses; (v) through an accelerated repayment of expensive debt owed to
the Federal Government; and (vi) reducing the wage bill through a separation package. Revenues
collected by the provinces will increase by 15% per annum and their share in provincial GDP (GPDP)
goes up from 1.7% to 2.1%. The program contains a number of tax policy and administrative
measures especially relating to the collection of agriculture income tax (using satellite imaging,
having independent assessment done by the SIDA/irrigation departments), and water charge
collections (abiana, through adjusting water rates to account for scarcity and increasing coverage
through the efforts of SIDA and the Area Water Boards). Much of the increase, though, comes from
non-tax revenue sources due to higher royalties from production in Sindh's three new gas fields.
Specific measures concerning revenues and revenue targets are discussed in detail in Annex E.
*   The composition of expenditures improves: (i) the wage bill is contained after increasing in FY02 and
FY03, due to a pay reform introduced by the Federal Government'4; (ii) the share of development
expenditure increases from 12% to 18%; (iii) the share of operations and maintenance expenditure
goes up from 9% to 16% by FY06; (iv) share of expenditures on subsidies fall from about 6.4% in
FY0 I to less than 0.3% of all expenditures in FY06; (vi) the plan provides for severance packages for
close to 25,000 civil servants.'5
*   The development budget will continue to emphasize the implementation of ongoing projects with
around 75% to 80% of the provinces own annual development expenditures (i.e. non-foreign
financed) being earmarked for completing existing projects or for rehabilitation of infrastructure.
*   Debt and liabilities are reduced: (i) arrears and overdrafts of Rs. 21 billion around 2.1% of Gross
Provincial Domestic Product (GPDP) is retired by FY02; (ii) retirement of expensive CDL loans by
an additional Rs. 6.8 billion (0.7% of GPDP); and (iii) pension funds/G.P. Funds are capitalized by
Rs. 13.3 billion 1.3% of current GPDP - both through capitalization and through transferring all
pension fumds curTent surpluses (that currently finance provincial expenditures) to the General
Provident Fund. The capitalization, if directed to the G.P. Fund only, will go a long way to meet the
R.s. 16 billion liabilities (previous employee contributions) in the Provident fund.
*   The proposed fiscal program generates transitory fiscal deficits (of around - 0.3% to - 0.4% of GPDP)
over the medium term (FY 03 to FY 05). As agreed with GoP and the IMF, these deficits, to be
financed by the proposed SSAC will be part of the Pakistan's consolidated fiscal targets and deficit
financing agreed to under the PRGF program for FY 03 and FY 04. Public savings will increase from
0.7% of GPDP in FY00 to 1.3% of GPDP. The MTFRP includes expected financing gaps of around
$100 million p.a. from FY03 to FY05 that are expected to be filled by annual disbursements of the
series of SSACs'6, if implementation of agreed benchmarks are satisfactory.
* While the additional fiscal resources will finance permanent increases in poverty reduction
expenditure, some of the transitory increase in deficits will finance once-off expenditures with long
This had the efect of raising Iota] remuneration by around 50%Mc with the rato of total rmuneration BPS22:BPS1 rmaining at around
9.5:1 and the proportion of allowances in total remunmeion remaining at aromund 270/c.
15 The estimates are based on severance pay of 5 years salary for an assumed 25,000 employees at an average tota) yearly remimeration of
Rs. 50,000. Detailed severance costs will be calculated later.
16 The programmatic adjustment credit for this period will cover this financing gap. In the event, that such financing is not
available, the accelerated debt repayment, pension fuid capitalization, and funding for severance payments can be lowered to
eliminate this gap.



term returns by: (i) capitalizing G.P./pension funds; (ii) accelerated repayment of debt; (iii) financing'
the large backlog of rehabilitation (not recurrent maintenance) of roads and irrigation infrastructure in
poor conditions; and (iv) funding severance payments for civil servants. At the end of the program
period these 'once-off expenditures will have created significant fiscal space for the Government and
their reduction will not affect normal expenditures.
Financial Management
57.   Issues. Financial management failures, severe all across Pakistan, were probably the worst in
Sindh in the 1990s. Quality of public accounts is poor with large variations, in all four provinces,
between departmental accounts, accounts prepared by the Accountant General, and Bank records.
Accountability eroded as the Public Accounts Committee did not function between 1985 and 2001.
Insufficient monitoring and information on budget implementation and the province's financial position
led to poor implementation and accumulation of arrears. Complicated expenditure release procedures
prevented timely release of funds for high priority social sector expenditures. A generic problem for
Pakistan's provinces is that responsibility for financial management is diffused between the Department
of Finance and the Accountant General, who reports directly to the Controller General (Accounts) of the
Federal Government, but acts as a Controller for the provincial government. In the case of public
procurement, while the GoS has rightly decentralized it to administrative departments, government
procurement, which constitutes more than 20% of public expenditures, still suffers from lack of
transparency and inefficiency due to outdated rules, contributing to wastage and corruption.
58.    Objectives and Strategy: The GoS's financial management reforms objectives are to improve
the effectiveness of public expenditures by strengthening transparency and accountability. Based on a
preliminary Provincial Financial Accountability Profile, GoS has adopted a Financial Management
Reform Program including appointing a Provincial Financial Controller in the Department of Finance to
take responsibility for improving financial management (see Annex F). The Bank and GoS will also
carry out a modular Provincial Financial Accountability Assessment as part of the Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (FY03). The GoS is now implementing reforms to improve; (i) the quality of
provincial accounts; (ii) public accountability systems; (iii) budget implementation; and (iv) debt, arrears
and quasi-fiscal management. These reforms are intrinsically a component of the national financial
management reforms led by the GoP, and are based on the diagnosis and the recommendations of the desk
review for the CFAA (FY 01) and agreed with GoP (Annex F provides more details) and technical
assistance provided by the Bank through the Pakistan Improvement of Financial Reporting and Auditing
(PIFRA) project.
59.    Status of Implementation: GoS has implemented the following measures:
(i)    Improving public accounts markedly under the leadership of the Provincial Fiscal
Monitoring Committee (FMC). FY01 accounts were fully reconciled by September 2001
compared to only 6% reconciliation a year ago. For FY02, expenditure and receipts for the first
two quarters have been reconciled (on a function wise basis) for 88% and 77% of funds
respectively. Last November, the variation between the Accountant General, Sindh, and the State
Bank of Pakistan FY 01 records was Rs. 149 million-compared to Rs. 1.2 billion in the previous
year.
(ii)   Strengthening accountability through setting up an effective ad-hoc Public Accounts
Committee (PAC) after nearly a decade. The PAC, staffed by highly reputed, retired Government
officials and private sector Chartered Accountants, has the completed review of the FY 93 and
FY 99 audit reports, and is now reviewing the most recent FY 00 Audit report. The PAC has
opened its proceedings to journalists and all interested persons.
-16-



(iii)  Improving arrears, debt and quasi-fiscal management. In addition to paying off arrears,
GoS has taken steps to control arrears and other liabilities. It has agreed with WAPDA, and
discussing with KESC, arrangements to set up billing dispute resolution mechanism; avoiding
future arrears by metering all remaining government sites; and cutting off power to agencies in
the event of future arrears. To strengthen quasi-fiscal management, the GoS will launch a review
of all off-budget public accounts and of public enterprises and autonomous bodies and identify
information gaps that need to be filled.
(iv)   As part of the provincial Financial Management Reform Program, GoS has decided to
appoint a Provincial Financial Controller in the Department of Finance. The appointment will be
made by July 31, 2002. The controller's main task will be to implement financial management
and public financial accountability reforms. In addition, the Controller will also be responsible
for accounting and financial reporting (ointly with Provincial Accountant General), developing
provincial capacity to handle accounting and payroll, organization of finance and accounts
function of the GoS, staffing and training, internal Controls and internal audit, financial policies
and procedures, and respond to audit observations and systemic issues.
60.    Medium Term Reform Plans for FY03 and FY04, include: (i) implementation of the Financial
Management Reform Program, institutional and personnel reforms to improve financial management
capacity and internal controls in provincial departments; and establishment of internal audit unit in each
line departments; (ii) strengthening District Government Financial Management and upgrading the level
of District Accounts Officers (DAOs) to Grade 18/19 and post qualified personnel in these posts; (iii)
computerization of all fiscal accounts up to the district level; (iv) improvements in fiscal transparency by
introducing the new Chart of Accounts and New Accounting Model; (v) review and reforms of financial
rules to make these consistent with the new accounting model; (vi) improving the tracking of
recommendations of the Auditor General and PACs and publication of audit reports in the web page; and
(vii) improving in FY03 the legal and regulatory framework for public procurement by revising the
procurement rules, standardizing bidding documents, and establishing an effective mechanism to redress
complaints from suppliers. The aim is to simplify procurement and ensure more transparency and
efficiency. The GoS also plans to enact a procurement law legislating good public procurement principles
in FY04 (see Annex F for more details).
B. Pfllar Two: Improving Governance Of Civil Service And Public Service Delivery
Civil Service Reforms
61.    Issues: Improving the effectiveness of public expenditures and public service delivery depends
fundamentally on improving performance of Sindh's 459,000 civil servants whose salaries and pension
constituted 47% of total expenditures in FY00." Several factors have undermined civil service
perfornance. Politically motivated recruitment and excessive transfers, weak enforcement of discipline,
and poor salaries eroded merit and professionalism. Lack of accountability to local governments,
communities, and beneficiaries provide little incentives for service. Poor human resource management
has resulted in a pyramid like composition of the civil service, where 43% of the civil service is in grades
I to 5 (who are often functionally illiterate). The absence of good data constrains right-sizing, re-
deployment, and pay reforms. Poor performance by the judicial and police departments deprives the
people of the province of basic rights of security and access to justice.
17 The share of civil service salaries is further expected to increase furtier to 49% of expenditures, in FY03, as a result of pay increases
introduced by the Federal Government as part of pay and pension reforms, but is reduced thereafter under the MTIFRP.
-17-



62.    Objectives and Strategy. GoS's civil service reforms aim to improve civil service performance
through strengthening accountability and management. The strategy has four components: (i) promoting
merit and professionalism; (ii) strengthening accountability of civil servants to the newly formed local
governments; (iii) improving human resource management; and (iv) rationalizing the civil service.
Separately, GoS has also started implementing judicial and police reforms.
Status of Implementation
63.    GoS is promoting civil service merit and professionalism through three measures. First, it has
strengthened independent oversight of civil service recruitment by promulgating the Sindh Public Service
Commission Ordinance and the associated rules, which provides the Commissioners with more autonomy
and increases the scope of their overview of recruitment in the civil service"8. Second, it is reducing
absenteeism through better monitoring and dismissals, and giving local bodies, such as the School
Management Committee, powers to report absenteeism in schools and recommend transfers or dismissal
of teachers. Existing laws, such as the Sindh Civil Service Act (1973), the associated Government Rules
of Business (1986), and the new Removal from Service (Special Powers) Ordinance, 2000 have been used
to take actions against more than 600 senior officers. Given that virtually no actions have been taken
against senior officials in past years, these actions send a powerful signal.
64.    To strengthen accountability of civil servants to local governments and communities, the GoS has
organized district governments headed by elected officials with some 270,000 staff now transfeffed to
these Governments. Provincial departments have been reorganized at both provincial and district levels
for this purpose. To increase accountability to communities, the Education department has introduced
school-specific contractual employment. The GoS is now formalizing the introduction contractual
appointments for all technical positions within civil service rules and bringing recruitment of contract
staff within the PSC's mandate to ensure merit in the recruitment process.
65.    To improve human resource management and to right-size the government, the GoS has frozen
all recruitment below grade 14, i.e. in grades that are relatively unskilled and overstaffed, and abolished
over 12,000 vacant positions. The GoS has started an initial headcount of civil servants that is expected
to be completed by June 2002 and provide data on the order of magnitude of errors in the existing payroll
data. The headcount will be developed into a complete census over FY 03 to get the actual number and
more detailed data on civil servants. The number of provincial departments has been reduced from 28 to
23. Eight Ministers are in charge of these departments compared to cabinets as large as 60 Ministers in
the past decade. Around a dozen provincial enterprises and autonomous bodies are being closed down or
merged.
66.    Judicial and Police Reforms: As part of the nation wide program, the GoS has, with Asian
Development Bank assistance, also embarked on a judicial and police reform program with the aim of
improving law and order and improving access to justice. These reforms will include: (i) separation of
the judiciary from the executive and ensuring that the judiciary is adequately funded; (ii) expediting
justice through introducing alternative dispute resolution; (iii) legal empowerment of poor through civil
society led legal literacy campaigns, advocacy, and public interest litigation initiatives; and (iv)
improving judicial governance by introduction of professional management, and greater transparency and
accountability. The implementation of police reforms are also proceeding through measures under which
the District Police Officer has been made accountable to the elected District government. At the same
time, public safety commissions have been formed to ensure that police officers have recourse against
unlawful or politically motivated orders.
Now the Commission's nmandate covers all recruitment above grade 11 instead of grade 17 and above as before.
-18-



67.    Medium   Term  Reforms:   Medium-term  actions in civil service reforms will include
implementing comprehensive civil service reform program, with World Bank technical assistance, with
the following elements: (i) improving human resource management by building a comprehensive human
resource data base based on a census conducted over FY03; (ii) using the census to rationalize the civil
service by eliminating ghost workers, redeployment, and introducing a voluntary separation schemes for
low-skilled staff (grade 1 to 5) starting from FY04; (iii) further extending the autonomy of the Public
Service Commission (FY04); (iv) developing district civil service cadres to work under local
Governments (FY03 and FY04); (v) preparing for the greater use of contract-based employment in all
technical cadres through legal changes to prevent regularization, ensuring robust establishment and
budget controls, and extending the overview provided by the PSC; and (vi) implementing judicial and
police reforms with ADB assistance.
Improving Public Service Delivery: Education
68.   Issues: Decades of poor governance have left the Sindh education sector in a state of crisis.
While an investment of almost Rs 10 billion has gone to the primary education sector in the 1990s
through the Social Action Program, outcomes were disappointing (see Annex G). Factors responsible for
poor outcomes include: (i) poor access, as some 5,500 schools, i.e. 13% of the current number, are closed
due to lack of teachers or funds; (ii) sheer poverty preventing families from bearing any costs of
education; (iii) poor quality of education arising from absent or poorly trained teachers, lack of adequate
school supplies, and inadequate infrastructure (35% of elementary schools are shelterless while another
47% schools have less then 2 rooms or less; and 55% of schools are without water and sanitation
facilities); (iv) lack of accountability of school management to communities and service users; (v) weak
monitoring and evaluation of performance; and (vi) virtual absence of private sector in rural Sindh (only
5% of primary students are enrolled in private schools).
69.    Objectives of Reform: The Department of Education (DoE) is implementing a multi-pronged
strategy to improve outcomes that include providing adequate resources and improving their utilization,
strengthening governance and accountability, ensuring the participation of communities and increasing
the role of the private sector. The goal is to ensure that by 2010, 70% of Sindh's primary school age
children complete primary school education and graduate with basic primary skills of numeracy and
literacy. Other targets are given in Box 1 below:
-19-



Status of Implementation
70.   Implementation is proceeding in the following areas:
(i)    Preparing a Strategy. The GoS is now implementing a comprehensive Education Sector Reform
strategy developed in the current fiscal year. The DoE has signed memoranda of understanding
to access additional funds to implement the National Education 'Reform program and the
President's School Rehabilitation Program. The province in tum has disbursed these funds to
district governments.
(ii)  Improving access. GoS has launched primary school enrollment drives and expanded incentive
programs (free textbook program, incentives for female students). Around 3,796 closed schools
have been made operational through redeploying and recruiting teachers, with female teachers
being given priority. The incentive programs include distribution of free primary textbooks to
girls in rural and urban slum areas, and approximately 340,000 sets of books were distributed in
the free textbook program in FY01. Scholarships for deserving female students are being
delivered and 10,000 such scholarships were provided in FY 01. There has been a 5% increase in
primary enrollment in FY 02, reversing the trend of the 1990s. A compulsory primary education
program is being implemented with 15 Talukas and 5 districts covered in FY 02, with all 102
talukas to be covered by FY 04.
(iii)  Improving quality and accountability.  GoS has: (a) expanded the role of parent/citizen
community board member chaired School Management Committees to monitor teacher
attendance and school budgets; (b) appointed new teachers on contracts, to specific schools; (c)
made new teacher recruitments based on merit, with private sector and community involvement;
(d) started testing competency of teachers and providing remedial training; and (e) launching a 5
year rolling budget to improve school infrastructure.
(iv)   Strengthening Monitoring & Evaluation Systems. For the first time, the 2001 School Census
includes comprehensive information on teachers and private/NGO education facilities. The
Research Monitoring & Evaluation Cell (R,M&E Cell) of the DoE has been set up. It has
initiated monitoring of schools through field visits using well-developed tools and is now
preparing, with World Bank assistance, to launch the first of annual third party validation (TPV)
survey to assess delivery of school level services in districts. A comprehensive Provincial
Education Assessment Program will be introduced from FY 03.
(v)    Implementing Devolution. The DoE has been reorganized to work under district Governments.
It has prepared a manual which provide briefings to heads of district Governments on the
functions and responsibilities of the district education staff, guidelines on accessing funds and
carrying out monitoring responsibilities (district nazims/naib nazims'9 were involved in carrying
out the last school census).
(vi)   Enhancing Public-Private Partnerships. The GoS is implementing a policy to de-nationalize
educational institutions nationalized in 1972, sell or lease schools to the private/NGO sector, and
encourage the private and NGO sectors to contribute to and participate in managing public
schools under the well- known Adopt-a-School Program of Sindh Education Foundation. GoS is
finalizing a policy on private education to promote private sector participation.
'9 Elected heads of district Governments.
-20-



71.    Medium Term Reforms: The mediurn-term reform plan will consist of annual implementation
of the Education Sector Strategy, which will include: teacher redeployment program, annual enrollment
drives, teacher training programs, annual TPV surveys, providing missing facilities to schools, and
strengthening monitoring and evaluation capacity. In addition, the medium-term will expand the
compulsory education program to all talukas by FY04; improving the secondary education system in line
with the provincial education sector strategy; completing the first provincial student assessment to
evaluate student learning achievement; training of SMCs and gradually extending SMC powers to hire
and fire teachers; and launching capacity building programs for district, Tehsil and taluka officials.
Improving Public Service Delivery: Health
72.   Issues: The health and fertility indicators of Sindh province lag behind those of many low-
income countries. The infant mortality rate (IMR) is about 95/1000 live births and the total fertility rate
(TFR) around 5, whereas the corresponding current figures for India and Bangladesh are about 70/1000
for the IMR and about 3 for the TFR. An analysis of the Burden of Disease (BOD) in Pakistan in 1996,
generally applicable to Sindh also, suggested that priority should be given to basic preventable and readily
treatable diseases, which mainly affect young children and women of reproductive age. Several issues
constrain good health outcomes including: (i) the lack of a clear outcomes focused health sector strategy
especially with respect to preventable diseases; (ii) poor governance that encouraged absenteeism,
excessive transfers and corruption in procurement; and (iii) inadequate use of private sector and NGO
participation.
73.    Objectives and Strategy: The GoS's reforms are based on a well-targeted medium-term health
sector strategy (see Box 2 below) that focuses on preventive and communicable diseases, improving
govemance, and promoting private sector participation and strengthening district management capacity.
Status of Implementation
74.    The  Department, of Health (DoH)'s         2
reforms are proceeding in six areas:
(i)    Sindh is the first province to have adopted  *N  aeo~oi eotatrue20 
a   Health   sector   strategy  and                            n
implementation plan-with well-defined     d     of  f
targets (see Box 2 and Annex G)-based  *A    nrae    tepretg_
on the new 2001 National Health Policy.   at
(ii)   Reinvigorating  the  immunization  and  *  e     0% o                  C
tuberclosis  (TB)  programs.   After               t    8    f tem in  e
stagnation in the late 1990s, the coverage  b l gYPS strate
is increasing  under a  well-targeted  *  A q      c                 E
program.   A  third party assessment      sefal     f      E        planing  an
indicates that immunization coverage of   fianc       m
children (12-23 months) and pregnant
women is 45%   and 48%   respectively,
increasing from 38% and 40% respectively (in 1998), though most rural districts still have
coverage below 40%. The numbers of confirmed Polio cases have decreased from 65 in 2000 to
23 (October) in 2001. In TB, good progress has been made in expanding DOTS strategy to ten
districts. The coverage has increased from 8% to 31% with case detection rate of 80% and a cure
rate of 75%. The program is on track to expand to 13 districts by end of FY02. The GoS is
-21-



undertaking supplementary TT campaign in high-risk areas and is redeploying vaccinators to
uncovered areas.
(iii)  Improving Health sector governance. Vigilant monitoring by departmental committees and army
monitoring teams is reducing staff absenteeism. More than 350 doctors have been removed as a
result. The scrutiny of departmental committees is improving transparency in procurement.
Transfers have been reduced and now take place only annually. New management and
organizational structures for provincial and district levels have been developed for the health
department and most posts have been filled. A medium-term plan for strengthening district
health management has been prepared.
(iv)   Enhancing Monitoring and Evaluation. The DoH has outlined a set of fifteen indicators to
measure performance, for self-monitoring and making itself accountable to the community. The
EPI Directorate has introduced quarterly monitoring and reporting system using WHO-adapted
instruments, with almost 100% reporting. The DoH is now preparing a plan for can-ying out
third-party led annual district level TPV surveys to validate departmental information.
(v)    Promoting public-private partnerships by inviting NGOs and CBOs to take over non-functional
health facilities. The newly developed Trauma Center in Karachi is being privatized through the
Privatization Commission. The DoH has defined its strategies to be implemented in the medium-
term, including explicit policy guidelines for private sector involvement.
75.    Medium Term Measures: Medium-term measures will include: (i) expanding the routine
immunization program and TB DOTS programs with well-identified targets and measures set out in the
Health Sectdr strategy (see Box 2 and Annex G); (ii) broadening public-private partnership under the
newly issued strategy; (iii) strengthening local government capacity by implementing detailed plans for
capacity development for district managers in management, planning, and financial management; and (iv)
further strengthening monitoring and evaluation systems. This will include strengthening the existing
Monitoring and Evaluation unit at the provincial level, improving health management information
systems; and conducting district level TPV surveys.
Improving Public Service Delivery: Rural Drinking Water and Sanitation
76;   Issues: The proportion of households with access to clean drinking water actually declined in
Sindh in the 1 990s and currently more than a third of rural households have no access to safe water. The
main issue is how to increase access to rural drinking water and sanitation (RWSS) on a sustainable basis.
GoS's past policy has relied on close consultation and participation by communities in facility
maintenance and by June 2001 out of a total of 1771 drinking water or sanitation schemes, 997 had been
transferred to the communities. Recently, however, as part of the national Kushal Pakistan Program
(KPP), the GoS has also sharply increased rural water supply and sanitations schemes with community
consultations, but without clear arrangements for community based maintenance and cost sharing.
77.    Objectives and Strategy: The GoS's strategy is still evolving and under discussion with the
Bank, partly in the context of the proposed IDA supported Community Infrastructure Project. It is
envisaged that the GoS reforms will include: (i) emphasizing the policy of community participation,
involvement and cost sharing as the guiding principle for RWSS schemes even under KPP (the pro-poor
public works program); (ii) improving governance through devolving the administration of RWSS
schemes to a lower sub-district tier of Government (the Taluka governnent) who are in closer contact
with beneficiaries; (iii) providing funding for operations and maintenance of RWSS schemes that have
been recently constructed with community consultations to the Taluka governments; and (iv) providing
adequate.funding for RWSS schemes in the Provincial development programs. The GoS's five-year
-22-



rolling plan for RWSS schemes doubles the allocation by FY 04, which is considered feasible to
implement.
Improving Public Service Delivery: Urban Services
78.   Issues: Sindh is the most urbanized province with half the population living in urban areas and
around 50% of its urban population living in slums. Hence, improving urban conditions is an important
priority for GoS. Several issues have constrained the improvement of urban services: (i) weak urban local
government institutions that have overlapping responsibilities with provincial departments and City
Development Authorities; (ii) poor financial management resulting in inadequate investment in provision
and maintenance of urban services; (iii) absence of strategic planning resulting in piecemreal actions and
waste of public resources; and (iv) lack of enabling environment for private sector participation.
79.    Objectives and Strategy: The GoS's goal is to improve urban life and especially slum
conditions. Instruments to achieve these goals will be setting up accountable and responsive city/town
governments, improving financial management, inviting greater private sector participation in the
provision of services, and strengthening the rights of slum dwellers.
80.    Status of Implementation: GoS is improving urban services through the following measures: (i)
Setting up well-functioning city Governments under the devolution plan. One city district government in
Karachi (comprising of 18 towns), and 16 district governments (comprising of 86 Talukas) have been set
up. Overlaps in responsibilities have been removed and all agencies but two have been closed or brought
under city Governments; (ii) Upgrading slums and regularizing dweller rights: Sindh has been the
national leader here through the internationally recognized work of Sindh Katchi Abadi Authority
(SKAA). The SKAA has formally regularized dweller's rights in 929 slums, completed regularization
work in 623, and executed development and improvement work in 486. Mainly based on the work of the
SKAA, the GoP has recently approved a National Policy on Katchi Abadis, Urban Renewal and Slum
Upgradation; and (iii) Promoting participation by Karachi's substantial private sector in urban
development.  The GoS has constituted the Economic Development Council (EDC) under the
chairmanship of the Governor and a 50% private sector representation to facilitate implementation of the
GoS's Program for Economic Revival of Karachi (PERK) by cutting across bureaucratic layers and
bottlenecks.
81.    Medium Term Measures: A substantial medium-term reform agenda exists in the urban sector
in Sindh centering around: (i) making city and municipal Governments well functioning by ensuring that
urban fiscal and financial management is strengthened to adequately support the provision of services; (ii)
improving urban services through the preparation of long overdue master plans and their implementation;
and (iii) continuing the work on the improvement of conditions of urban slums and urban poor based on
the recently approved National Policy on Urban Renewal and Slum Up-gradation.
C. Pillar Three: Promoting Private Sector Development and Economic Revival
82.   Issues: A constraint to Sindh's private sector development has been the poor law and order
condition, the ethnic conflict that marked Karachi through most of the 1990s and made Sindh's
investment climate hostile to the private sector. In addition, macroeconomic instability, a large debt
overhang, an inefficient public enterprise sector, infrastructure problems, and discretionary (i.e. a
harassing) taxation policy all worked to raise business costs, discourage private sector activity and lower
economic growth in the 1990s. Many of the key policies to address growth issues-federal taxation,
power, telecommunications, banling, and labor regulations-are primarily the concern of the Federal
Government and are being addressed comprehensively at the Federal level. Even so, the improvement of
investment climate requires complementary measures at the provincial level. In particular, there is a need
-23.-



to simplify the numerous and antiquated factory inspections and labor laws and rules that have become a
tool for harassing the private sector and rent seeking behavior. Importantly, many of the policies
affecting agriculture performance and rural development are also under provincial management. The GoS
is also responsible for rehabilitating the poor infrastructure in roads and irrigation that impede economic
growth and the functioning of markets.
83.    Objectives and Strategy:  Reforms to improve law and order, critical for improving the
investment climate, has been a key priority for the GoS (see para 66). In addition, GoS's economic revival
plan has three components: (i) regulatory reforms to lower business costs; (ii) privatization to promote
efficiency, private sector activity and investor confidence; and (iii) rehabilitating key infrastructure such
as roads and irrigation that have significant impact in promoting agriculture and rural development,
manufacturing, and trade.
Regulatory Reforms and Privatization
84.   In the regulatory area, the GoS's focus has been on modernizing the antiquated factory
inspections system and the large number of labor laws that have traditionally harassed private
entrepreneurs. Thus the number of factory inspections has been reduced from 23 to 7 for factories (and to
4 for shops-See Annex H) that will be undertaken in two days. Disciplinary actions have being taken
against staff charged with harassment and corruption. In conjunction with the Federal Government, the
GoS is now reviewing labor laws to consolidate these from over 27 laws, regulations and ordinances to 6
laws. Three of these laws were finalized in December 2001 and the rest will be finalized by October
2002.
85.    Medium-term reforms will focus on further streamlining of regulations and building up the
institutional framework. First, once the impact of the current round of reforms has been evaluated, there
will be further streamlining of regulations-particularly to increase labor market flexibility. The second
major issue will be the deepening of institutional reforms to address private sector development issues
through developing more independent and professional regulatory organizations, where the private sector
and civil society are well represented. GoS has already taken steps in this regard as discussed below.
86.    GoS has been successful in involving Karachi's considerable private sector in public-private
partnerships to jointly work to improve the investment climate. Some of the key examples of public-
private partnership include: (i) A powerful Provincial Committee on Investment (PCOI)- with 70%
private sector membership-has been notified and is meeting regularly to address ways to improve the
investment climate; (ii) The Economic Development Council (EDC) has been set-up for the revival of
Karachi city. While it is chaired by the Governor, its vice chairman is from the private sector; (iii) The
Sindh Privatization Commission is chaired by a private sector individual, and 10 of the 15 members are
from the private sector; and (iv) An Information Technology (IT) Board has been set up to promote an IT
culture in Sindh and boost software exports. Headed by the Governor, it has a 50% private sector
membership all actively involved in designing an IT strategy for the province.
87.    Privatization reforms implemented include promulgating a strong privatization law, setting up a
well-constituted Sindh Privatization Commission (SPC), and identifying the list of assets and the
timetable for privatization. The Commission, headed by one of Pakistan's leading investment bankers, is
in place and properly funded. The GoS Cabinet has approved the list of assets to be privatized, including
some potentially large-scale transactions: coal mines (with federal government approval), sugar mills, and
water treatment plants of the Karachi Water and Sewerage board (See. Annex H for the list of assets and
schedule of privatization). In the medium-term, the main task will be to carry out the privatization tasks
as per schedule. In the meanwhile, the SPC is building up implementation capacity through appointing
-24-



qualified consultants to undertake specific transactions and to carry out an inventory of GoS owned assets
and enterprises in order to confirm employment, financial position and other pertinent data.
Rehabilitating Sindh 's Roads
88.   Issues: The roads network in Sindh province is in a critical state of disrepair raising transport
costs and adversely affecting the growth of markets, incomes and employment, especially in the rural
areas. Close to 70% of the 20,642 kilometers are classified as in poor condition, with only 10% being
deemed to be in good condition. The road maintenance budget is less than one third of its requirements
and, there is a large backlog of road rehabilitation expenditures (around 0.8% of GPDP). There has been
a lack of sustainable funding mechanism for road maintenance. The road management department is
overstaffed and maintenance yardsticks are outdated.
89.    Objectives and Strategy: GoS's plans to improve its road management program through
embarking on a road rehabilitation program that prioritizes maintenance, setting up a Roads Fund with an
Oversight Board that has stakeholder participation and involves private contracting. The other main
component of its strategy is to implement the process of devolution and decentralization of the
management of district roads-which constitute the vast majority of the road network - to district
Governments. Finally, the GoS's MTFRP provides the fiscal space to increase allocations for road
rehabilitation in both the current and development budgets several fold.
90.   Implementation: First, in line with its strategy, the Communications and Works Department
(CWD) has shifted its focus to maintenance and rehabilitation of roads and sharply curtailed construction
of new roads. To this end, it has prepared a maintenance backlog estimate, a maintenance prioritization
plan (under which 70% of its maintenance budget is going to priority roads), updated its yardsticks and
has requested increased allocations for maintenance. Second, a public-private Oversight Body has been
created to manage the increased maintenance funding for roads and a non-lapsable Roads Fund is being
prepared to protect road maintenance funds. The ADB is supporting the setting of the Road Fund.
Further, starting this year, 100 % of all maintenance has been contracted out to the private sector. Third,
CWD has reorganized itself for devolution. It has absorbed the provincial Education Works Directorate
and the Housing and Town Planning department and has devolved its share of the intra-district road
network (approximately 16,020 kIn) and half its staff (8,475) to the district govemments. CWD has sent
guidelines to district govemments on how to prioritize their share of the maintenance allocation and
submit their priorities to be incorporated in the medium-term rolling plan for provincial road expenditures
91.    Medium-Term Reform Program: The medium-term reform program in the roads sector will
focus on institutional reforns with assistance from the ADB that will include: (i) establishment of a Road
Sector Development Directorate (RSDD), whose operations will be guided by the newly created oversight
body, and mandated to develop the road master plan and a 5-year rolling plan and design standards and
specifications and environmental management manuals, implement the axle load control program and,
traffic capacity plans, and publish maintenance and investment program; (ii) other related institutional
reformns will include staff rationalization and private sector participation in toll operations and road
maintenance, especially through local level maintenance contracts; and (iii) augment resources for the
non-lapsable road through fuel levies, cesses, revenues from tolls and surcharges on heavy vehicles.
Agriculture and Irrigation
92.   Issues: Sindh province, with 26% of Pakistan's cultivated area, contributes 24% of national
production of major crops (44% in rice, 31% in sugarcane, 21% in cotton, and 15% in wheat). Though
Sindh's agriculture growth increased in the 1990s, it suffered from volatility that reduced its poverty
impact as there is a clustering of households around the poverty line. While crop yields in Sindh are
-25-



higher than national averages, they are lower than their potential. Several factors have constrained Sindh's
agriculture performance. Excessive water-logging and salinity due to inefficient use of flood irrigation
and the exhaustion of micronutrients by in-appropriate use of mechanization, water, and fertilizer have
reduced yield. Water logging and salinity cause as much as 40-60 % reduction in the productivity of
major crops in Sindh. In spite of huge public investments, the problems of salinity and sodicity have
become more acute in recent years, due to poorly maintained drainage systems and increased tapping of
brackish groundwater for irrigation.
93.    The deterioration of the irrigation network due to poor maintenance, low water rates and
inefficient system of assessment and collection that recover only a third of the recurrent cost of irrigation
have lead to enormous wastage of scarce water resources and reduced availability of irrigation. Apart
from seasonal water shortages in the canal systems due to highly seasonal river flows and inadequate
regulatory structures, Sindh's irrigation system is characterized by (i) low delivery efficiency (only about
35-40%); (ii) distribution inequities (poor and/or untimely supply at the tail ends of the distributaries and
watercourses); (iii) wasteful on-farm water uses (due to under pricing of water); and (iv) illegal pumping
by head-enders. Highly skewed land distribution and insecure tenancy rights provide poor incentives for
investment in land. Inferior services provided by the agricultural extension and the irrigation departments
have not helped farmers. Continued restrictions on private sector supply of inputs and large public sector
presence have lowered efficiency.
94.    Strategy:  Sindh is pursuing an agriculture strategy that emphasizes six policy areas: (i)
improving the operations and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage system. (ii) reforming
agricultural extension servies; (iii) increasing growth-enhancing public investments; (iv) further
liberalization of trade and markets, (v) promoting private sector investment, and (vi) developing efficient
land markets. To address constraints to efficient operation and management of the irrigation and drainage
systems, GoS has adopted a new strategy. The key thrust of this strategy is to foster an institutional,
policy and operational framework that is conducive to efficient and self-sustaining operation and
management of the irrigation and drainage systems. The strategy is predicated upon: (i) restructuring of
the Provincial Irrigation Department into an autonomous Sindh Irrigation and Drainage Authority (SIDA)
at the province level, and commercially oriented and autonomous Area Water Boards (AWB) at the canal
command levels; (ii) devolving O&M and cost recovery responsibilities to formally organized Farmer
Organizations (FOs) at the distributary/minor canal levels; (iii) fostering beneficiary/community/private
sector participation in all aspects of operation and management of the irrigation and drainage systems;
and (iv) significantly increasing budgetary allocations for irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation under the
GoS's medium term fiscal restructuring plan.
95.    Status of Implementation: GoS is fully committed to the implementation of the institutional and
policy reforms initiated in the irrigation and drainage sector under the National Drainage Program (NDP)
project. The reforms have high-level support. The SIDA Act was passed in 1997 to provide legal cover
for the reforms. SIDA has already been established with initial jurisdiction over three canal commands.
Its organizational structure, staffing, systems, rules and regulations are being developed. Committed and
efficient staff is being recruited from the market. The future vision is that SIDA's jurisdiction would be
gradually expanded to the whole of Sindh province, with AWBs established on all the 14 canal
commands by the end of 2003. Simultaneously, Irrigation Department's jurisdiction and role would
gradually diminish, and ultimately it would hold regulatory responsibilities only. Over 40 FOs have
already been established within the Nara Canal Command. SIDA and the Nara Canal AWB have already
turned over irrigation and drainage management responsibility to over 20 FOs. More FOs are being
established. Ultimately over 1200 FOs would be established in the 14 canal commands/AWBs of Sindh.
Initial reports suggest that irrigation charges recovery have improved substantially in some of these areas.
The GoS's medium-term fiscal restructuring plan also includes an increase in allocations for the
rehabilitation of irrigation and increasing water charges to promote efficient use of this scarce resource.



96.    To increase the performance of extension services and irrigation maintenance, GoS's primary
initiative has been to try to involve farmers in both these activities. In the case of extension workers,
monthly salary has been made contingent upon at least five farmers (who are changed every month)
certifying their presence and contribution. In addition, GoS is also holding field days and farmer days in
villages to make a special effort to disseminate best practice. Finally, the GoS is also continuing its
program of land distribution with more than 103,000 acres of land distributed to landless farmers in the
last two years.
97.    Medium Term Reforms: The GoS's medium-term plan focuses on rationalizing procurement
services, reducing public sector and increasing private sector presence, and rehabilitating infrastructure.
As part of this, the GoS plans to: (i) remove market barriers by lifting restrictions on the internal
movement and imports of agricultural commodities and products; (ii) rationalize procurement prices by
setting wheat and cotton prices at the export parity price, while the procurement prices of all other crops
will be capped by their market prices; (iii) reduce public sector presence by closing down Sindh
Agriculture Supply Organization, its Food Department and the Sindh Seed Corporation, with the staff of
these agencies to be assigned to the surplus pool or paid a severance package; (iv) increase access to the
private sector under which private seed companies will get access to breeder seed developed by the
provincial public sector research institutes (who will get greater administrative and financial autonomy);
(v) continue its program of irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation with greater farmer participation and
public sector investments; and (vi) improve tenancy and land rights through improving and computerizing
land record systems.
V. THE PROPOSED SINDH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A. Pakistan Country Assistance Strategy
98.    The Government of Pakistan is engaged in fundamental reform for a historical transition of the
country to modernity. These reforms cover a broad spectrum-politics, institutions, economic, gender,
and social. The main goal of the Bank Group's Assistance Strategy is to support these fundamental
reforms for a transition to a modem Islamic State through a program of analytical services, institutional
capacity building, and demand driven lending. The triggers underpinning the operationalization of the
Bank Group's assistance strategy is based on measurable outcomes, which have the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs) as a frame of reference in alignment with corporate priorities and global
public goods.
99.    The Pakistan CAS advocates a programmatic approach focused on transfer of knowledge and
capacity building first, and resources second, in a flexible pursuit of key development outcomes.
Pakistan's I-PRSP sets out the process underlying a sweeping and ambitious reforrn program covering the
political, institutional, economic, and social, including gender equity. These reforms are inherently long
term in nature as acknowledged by the government and can therefore be more effectively supported by
multi-year programs-both at the national, provincial, and district level-hence the need for a
programmatic approach for the Bank Group's assistance strategy. The core program of fiscal and
governance reforms at both the provincial and district levels is an area for which the Bank's programming
approach is best suited: reforms take several years to yield results, and support needs to be flexible and
consistent to withstand the uncertainties inherent in such an endeavor. Moving forward with reforms will
also require assurance of a reasonable degree of financial support over the medium-term. Hence the
Bank's use of a series of adjustment credits to the federal and provincial govermnents will provide a
predictable and performnance-based budgetary support to enable both the reforming provinces to restore
their financial equilibrium while undertaking the difficult and politically controversial reforms. The
-27-



approach will also help the Bank manage risks by pacing its assistance with the future government's
ability to pursue reforms, and to give assurance of "just in time" support.
100.   Self-Activating Entry and Exit Triggers for Bank Assistance to Provinces:  As. noted,
Pakistan's provinces face a fiscal crisis as the result of past poor governance and economic management,
which has crippled their ability to deliver on their mandate. Since a significant volume of the Bank's
lending program is linked to structural reforms to increase the provinces' fiscal space and improve their
capacity to deliver basic services, the Bank's provincial lending program will be regulated by the
following entry criteria:
*      There is a reforming government at the provincial level with committed "reform champions" at
the top and capable reform leaders within the administration.
*      The provinces would have already initiated a number of reforms to restore good governance and
improve their public finances and public service delivery. This includes:
(i)    Fiscal discipline translated into reduced liabilities and short-term borrowing for deficit financing;
(ii)  Improved performance of Fiscal Monitoring Committees and PACs in increasing accountability;
(iii)  Initiation of civil service reform including enhancing efficiency and accountability, pay and
provident fund/pension reforms, rightsizing by eliminating positions as per skills requirements at
the provincial and in autonomous and semi-autonomous bodies;
(iv)   Marked improvement in civil service delivery including enforcement of location-specific teacher
and health worker contracts, and control of staff absenteeism; and implementation of
performance-based remuneration and teacher training programs.
Correspondingly, Bank lending to the provinces will be guided by the following exit criteria:
*  Reappearance of substantial short-term borrowing to finance the budget deficit.
* Expansion of public sector contingent liabilities (through off-budget financing of public
enterprises and other entities).
*  Deterioration or reversal of reforms to improve social service and governance improvements.
101.  The GoS reform program meets the entry criteria. There is a reforming government at the
provincial level with committed "reform champions" at the top and capable reform leaders within the
administration. The province has already initiated a range of reforms to restore good governance and
improve their public finances and public service delivery. There is significant improvement in the
performance of Fiscal Monitoring Committees and PACs over the past year. Civil service reforms have
been initiated. There has been an appreciable improvement in service delivery including enforcement of
location-specific civil service contracts, control of staff absenteeism, and implementation of performance-
based remuneration and teacher training programs.
102.   Other Lending Activities: While the proposed SSAC is the main vehicle for Bank assistance to
Sindh in support of a comprehensive approach, other Bank projects are also providing key investment and
technical assistance. These include projects such as the On Farm Water Management Project, which is
helping GoS to organize farmers groups in support of more rational irrigation management and greater
cost recovery; the National Drainage program, which is helping Sindh combat excess salinity, and the
forthcoming Community and Infrastructure Project that will support community participation in small
scale infrastructure development.
-28-



103.   Analytical Work and Technical Assistance: The proposed credit builds on the following
economic work: (i) Reforming Provincial Finances study (FY 00); (ii) the Country Financial
Accountability Assessment Desk Review (FY 01) which also assessed provincial fiduciary issues; (iii)
diagnostic work done for the Social Action Project in education and health sectors in the 1990s; (iv) the
Interim Pakistan Poverty Assessment Report (FY 02); and (v) the preparatory work done on Sindh
province by successive Bank missions in FY 01 and 02. A Bank team and consultants have worked
closely with GoS counterparts in the areas of fiscal restructuring, civil service reforms, health and
education strategies, and privatization. The WBI has been providing assistance in support of fiscal
decentralization. In addition, education and health sector units of the Bank are also providing technical
assistance to the GoS to implement devolution in their sectors. Technical assistance for the
implementation of the medium-term reform program is being provided through the PIRFA I project and
will be supplemented by a complementary technical assistance credit that is under preparation.
104.   Other Development Partners: In the past two years, the GoS has been able to rebuild a
partnership with other international and bilateral development agencies, as it was evident in the Sindh
Development Forum held in February 2002. Currently, the most active partner for Sindh is the Asian
Development Bank that is providing support for the agriculture sector, roads, and police and judicial
reforms. Other donors are providing assistance in health sector (with a special emphasis on women's
health), girls' education, water supply and sewerage in Karachi and Hyderabad. UNDF and WHO are
helping Sindh to strengthen its impact evaluation capacity in the health sector.
B. The Proposed Credit: Prior Actions and Medium Term Benchmarks
105.  The Proposed Credit: The GoS's reform program is comprehensive. But the proposed IDA
supported structural adjustment credit will be triggered by a selected, critical reform measures as prior
actions (see Box 3, next page). The criteria are these reforms are: (i) complementary in their impact on
reducing poverty; (ii) focus on achieving quick, visible improvements in public services (e.g. increase in
enrollment, schools, immnunization, road maintenance, project implementation, reduction in the number of
factory inspections); (iii) existence of strong reform champions and reflect actions that are already
underway; and (iv) sustainability.
106.  The credit, in an amount of US$ 100, million is expected to be the first in a series of three annual
credits that will help GoS to implement reforms over the medium-term. Proposed subsequent operations
in support of this reform program will use a combination of implementation benchmarks and outcomes as
triggers (See Table 7 and Annex A for the list of prior actions and outcomes). The GoS's medium-term
reform program will have the following main benchmarks for implementation to trigger future credits in
support of the program in FY 04 and FY 05:
(i)   satisfactory and continued implementation of prior actions under the first SSAC;
(ii)  implementation of the agreed fiscal restructuring plan (as per targets in FY 03 and FY 04), which
includes meeting specified revenue targets, providing resources to agreed high priority expenditures in the
social sectors, especially on non-salary items and rural infrastructure rehabilitation, implementing fiscal
decentralization and financial restructuring, and introducing tax administration reforms; (see para 56 and
Annex E for more details);
(iii)  implementation of the Financial Management Reform Program including reconciling liabilities
and assets of all public accounts and government financing, strengthening of financial management at the
provincial level and in the districts, and implementing procurement reforms to increase transparency
and efficiency (Annex F provides more details and benchmarks by years);
(iv)   deepening civil service reforms by formalizing site specific contractual service and developing a
computerized and payroll reconciled human resource data base human resource management and
development (FY 03);
-29-



Box 3: Prior Actions for Disbursement of Sindh Structural Adjustment Credit
Prior Action  -     -                                          Status C
Fiscal and Financial Management Reforms
GoS has expanded the provincial tax base by (i) introducing agriculture  Done in FY 02. (See para 45) Provincial tax revenues
income tax; (ii) rationalizing stamp taxes by reducing their number and  increased by 27% in FY01 and are expected to increase
making them ad-valorem; and (iii) enlarging property tax base by  by 14% in FY02.
increasing rating areas and adding 100,000 units to the base.
The GoS has retired arrears of Rs. 21 billion to owed to Federal  Done in FY 01 and 02. Arrears amounting to 2% of the
Government agencies, private sector contractors and utilities and reduced  GPDP have been retired in FY 01 and FY 02 and
past overdraft with State Bank of Pakistan (by more than 90%) and set  arrangements to avoid arrears have been made (See para
up specific arrangements to avoid such arrears in the future.  56).
The GoS has adopted a Medium Term Fiscal Restructuring Plan to  Done. The MTFRP has been adopted by the GoS. (See
increase provincial revenues, pro-poor expenditures, reduce future  para 56). The first-year targets of the plan will be
expenditure obligations such as debt servicing, and pension obligations.  incorporated in the FY 03 budget.
The GoS has made publicly available quarterly Fiscal Monitoring  Done. GoS is producing quarterly fiscal monitoring
Reports on revenues and expenditures that are based on accounts that are  reports presented in the Department of Finance web site
more than 75% reconciled with the Accountant General. The GoS has  (www.financedeptsindh.gov.pk).
implemented agreed revenue and expenditure targets for the first two
quarters of FY 02.
The GoS has set up the Provincial ad-hoc Public Accounts Committee,  PAC has been set up after 15 years and is currently
made review of audit reports current, and opened PAC sessions to the  reviewing latest FY 00 audit report (See para 57). The
press.                                                         PAC has made its sessions open to the press and public.
Sindh has (a) taken the decision to appoint a professionally qualified  GoS has adopted the Financial Management Reform
Provincial Finance Controller in its Department of Finance (DF) to lead  Program including the appointment of the Controller by
financial management reforms; (b) adopted a financial management  July 31, 2002 (see para 59).
reform program.
The GoS has streamlined financing procedures to ensure timely release  Done (December 2001). (See para 49). Disbursement
of development expenditures and high priority non-salary health and  of high priority expenditures has increased significantly.
education sector expenditures.
Strengthening Governance: Civil Service and Public Service Delivery Re orms
The GoS has promulgated the Sindh Public Service Commission    Ordinance was promulgated in December (See para 63).
Ordinance, which provides the Commission with administrative and  Civil service rules have been amended to apply SPSC's
financial autonomy, security of tenure, and associated rules which  authority from grade 11 and above (January 2002).
provide the PSC with control over all appointments of officials over
grade I I instead of only over Grade 17 as previously.
The GoS has increased accountability, access and quality of education  (i) Done; (ii) Department of Educations has made 3,800
through (i) expanding the role of the school management committees,  primary schools functional (10% of current schools)
chaired by parents/Citizens community Board members, to monitor  through redeploying and recruiting teachers under
teacher performance and school budget implementation; and (ii)  private sector management and community involvement;
redeploying and recruiting teachers to make viable schools functional,  (iii) Monitoring and Evaluation Cell (MR&E) has been
and (iii) set up the M, R&E cell of the DoE and initiated monitoring of  set up and it has initiated monitoring of schools. (See
schools.                                                       para 70).
GoS has (i) increased coverage of immunization services based on a  GoS is increasing EPI coverage from 39% to 50% and
well-targeted program; (ii) strengthened health sector monitoring and  TB DOTs coverage from 8% to 31%. Provincial M&E
evaluation programs; and (iii) initiated a program of strengthening  programs are being set up and district health
capacity in district governments.                              management has been strengthened. (See para 74).
Regulatory and Private Sector Development Reforms
GoS has streamlined inspections by reducing the number of inspections  Done. (See para and Annex H for details).
from 23 to 7 to take place in two days.
GoS has promulgated the Sindh Privatization Commission Ordinance  Done (July 2001 and January 2002 respectively). See
providing clear mandate to the Commission to privatize a clearly defined  para 84 and Annex H for details.
the list of assets.                                           I_I
(v)     strengthening the role of the communities and parents through further empowering the school
management committees to play a role in the hiring and firing of teachers, meeting specified education
and health sector (enrollment and immunization) coverage and quality targets, and strengthening
-30-



monitoring and evaluation including holding annual third party validation surveys to collect district level
information;
(vi)  implementing agreed regulatory reforms and privatization targets as per schedule set by the GoS.
C. Credit Administration
107.  Borrower and Credit Amount. The borrower is the Islamic Republic of Pakistan who will on
lend the money in Pakistan rupee equivalent on IDA terms to the Province of Sindh. The total credit
amount of SDR 79.1 (US$100 million), will be disbursed upon effectiveness. The closing date of the
Credit is December 31, 2002.
108.  Disbursement, Procurement, and Financial Management. The Credit will follow the Bank's
simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment operations.
* The Credit proceeds will be deposited into a GoP Deposit Account at the State Bank of Pakistan
(SBP).
* The Pakistani Rupees equivalent (based on the interbank exchange rate on the day of transfer) will be
on-lent to the province on IDA terms, which will be repaid in the original Rupee amounts by the
province.
* The Pakistani rupees will be transferred from the GoP deposit account to GoS's Account No. 1 (non-
food) in a single tranche, within two days after the Credit is received by GoP.
* IDA will request that the GoP's Deposit Account be audited; this audit will be performed by the SBP
independent auditors.
* The local currency proceeds in the GoS's Account No. I (non-food) are subject to the usual GoS
budget execution and audit policies and procedures, along with all other GoS funds.
* The Auditor General of Pakistan will audit the transfer of the local currency equivalent from GoP to
GoS; this audit will examine the conversion of the USD Credit proceeds into rupees and the transfer
of those rupees to the GoS's Account No. 1 (non-food).
* The proceeds will not be used to finance expenditures excluded under Schedule 1 of the Development
Credit Agreement. If any portion of the Credit is used for ineligible purposes as defined by the
Development Credit Agreement, IDA will require the government either to return that amount to the
Deposit Account for use for eligible expenditures or to refund the amount to IDA.
* The SBP, on behalf of the GoP, will maintain an appropriate accounting system in accordance with
generally acceptable accounting principles. It will provide the required infornation on the receipt and
use of the Credit funds and will prepare annual financial statements, up to and including the fiscal
year in which the balance in the Deposit Account is zero, in a format agreed at negotiations.
109.  Accounts and Audit: While the IMF Safeguards Assessment mission identified several risk
factors in the accounts and audit of the SBP, considerable progress has been made in implementing
remedies to mitigate the vulnerabilities identified.  The government is also implementing a
comprehensive program to improve public audit and accounting systems. The financial statements of the
Government of Pakistan Deposit Account into which the SSAC is deposited will be audited by SBP
appointed independent auditors acceptable to IDA under terms of reference in accordance with acceptable
international standards on auditing. The first audited financial statements will be submitted to IDA within
six months of the Government's fiscal year ending June 30, 2002.
110.  Fiduciary Issues: The GoS has launched a strong program of financial management reforms
(see paras. 57-60 and Annex F) that aim to mitigate fiduciary risks and ensure that public expenditures are
spent effectively and as intended. The reforms follow the road map of financial management reforms
-31-



being carried out by the Federal Government and many of the recommendations of the Pakistan Country
Financial Accountability Assessment desk review (June 2001), to improve the provincial public
accountability framework. The full CFAA (FY 03) will look in-depth into district financial management
and accountability issues under Pakistan's devolution program and provide further guidance for medium-
term reforms.
111.  Environmental Aspects: A national environment impact assessment will be carried out in FY 03
by the South Asia environmental unit to assess compliance with environmental laws and institutional
reforms that need to be taken to improve environmental management. This assessment will include Sindh
province, including the coastal and riverine areas. In the case of Sindh an environmental safeguard and
due diligence will be out for the potential privatization of Karachi Electric Supply Corporation in the
power sector to ensure that private operators are in compliance with the environmental laws of Pakistan.
Arrangements will also be made for the environmental screening of potential privatization and concession
of the coal mines and assets of the Karachi Water Supply Board that are part of the GoS's privatization
plan.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
112.  Monitoring and evaluation arrangements are being set up in Sindh as part of the Federal
Govemment's Poverty Reduction Strategy to track (i) public expenditures (e.g. on primary education); (ii)
outputs (e.g. trained teachers); and (iii) outcomes (e.g. learning as measured by the proposed educational
assessment system, the share of primary schools student graduating). These variables are described in the
GoP's I-PRSP. As in other provinces, Sindh's Planning and Development Department will be mainly
responsible for coordinating this task and making its report to the Federal Govenmment.
113.  The monitoring and evaluation arrangements for the GoS's reform program will extend further to
monitor the targets set in Table 7 below and in Annex A, the Policy Matrix. These will include (i) the
quarterly fiscal monitoring report; (ii) civil service transfers and the rightsizing of the civil service will be
monitored by the Services department; (iii) human development and MDG data identified in Table 7
(including poverty reduction, primary education enrollment and retention, girls education, infant
mortality, maternal and reproductive health care, and safe drinking water) will be provided by the
monitoring cells of the relevant departments; (iv) district performance indicators and the results of the
annual independent third party validation surveys that will be carried out will be regularly monitored by
the Departments; and (v) surveys to monitor the implementation of regulatory reforms.
114.  The monitoring of the implementation of the reform program is being done at two levels. An
inter-Ministerial Committee is providing overall monitoring and guidance to ensure implementation.
Second, an Implementation and Monitoring Unit (lMU) will be set up by end of May, at the Finance
Department to supervise, monitor and coordinate implementation in all the agencies. This IMU will
produce quarterly report consisting of three parts: (i) the quarterly fiscal monitoring reports on the
implementation of fiscal and financial management targets (as set out in Tables 1 through 5 of Annex E of
this Program Document and tables on the functional breakdown of current and development
expenditures); (ii) progress in the implementation of specific measures agreed under the SSAC and the
GoS's medium term reform program; (iii) and data on poverty reduction and MDG outcomes from
surveys and other sources (identified in Table 7 below) when these will become available. All of the
above information will be posted in the Department of Finance, GoS, web site, within 45 days of the end
of the quarter. The first report will be presented on August 15. The GoS has identified specific targets
and variables to be tracked and the sources and agencies responsible for tracking these. This information
is presented in Table 7 below.
-32-



Table 7: Monitoring Indicators Under GoS Reform Program
(* = Corresponding to IPRSP Targets)
Indicators (Targets are from latest ear to F'Y 06)                      Institutional Arrangement for Monitoring
Growth*                          3.3% to 5.2 % per cent per anawn     Overall Monitoring Responsibility
Poverty (Basic Needs)*           Urban: 19% (1998 PIHS) to 16% (FY04)  Planning and Development Departnent;
Rural 37% to3l%(FY04)                Source forPoverty Data: PIHS Survey every two
years
Public Finance                   15.2% annual growth of revenue
Provincial Tax Revenue Growth   AIT and irrigation charges collection  Quarterly Fiscal Monitoring Reports, Annual
growth by 20% p.a.                   Budget Statements of Department of Finance,
and Annual Budgets, produced by the
Share of education and health in  From 28% of expenditures in FY 01 to  Departmnent of Finance
current expenditures (functional  39% in FY 06
classification)
Quarterly Fiscal Monitoring Reports of the
Operations and Maintenance       From 9% (in FY 01) to 16% of all     Department of Finance
(economic classification)        expenditures
Development Expenditures         From 9% (FY 01) to 18% of all
(economic classification)        expenditures
Department of Finance/Accountant General's
Timely, comprehensive, reconciled  Civil Accounts Reconciliation from 80%  Office. Quarterly Fiscal Monitoring Report.
fiscal data eventually using modern  to 95%.
chart of public accounts         Identification and reconciliation of all
expenditures and public accounts.
Education and, Health
Gross priuary enrollment rate    From 60% to 80% (FY 05)              Annual SEMIS, Reports of the R, M, and E cell
Gross Female Primary enrollment  From 41% to 60%                      of the Education Department. PIHS
rate*
Annual Independent Third Party Validation
Number of Schools Made*          88% to 100%.                         Surveys with data collected for district level.
Functional                       101,000 teachers tested and 12,000
Teacher Competency Testing and   trained.                             SEMIS
Training*
PIHS Surveys
Infant Mortality Rate*          95 to 60                             Annual Reports of Immunization Directorates
12 to 23 month Immunization *    49% to 80%                           Third Party District Annual Assessments.
TB Control Access                8% to 100%
Births Attended By Trained       28% to 40%
Personnel*
Third Party Validation Surveys
Population with Access to Safe   61% to 80%.
Drinking Water*
Annual Sindh Katchi Abadi Authority Reports
Notified Katcha Abadis (Urban    80% to 90%
Slums) Regularized*
Infrastructure                                                        Annual Reports of CWD, Roads Oversight
Proportion of Roads Classified in  70% to 50%                         Body, Independent Surveys
Poor Conditions
Kilometers of All Weather Farm to  14000 km to 15200 km by FY 05
Market Roads*                                                         Annual Reports of SIDA/Irrigation Department
Rehabilitation of Irrigation     1500 Km channels by FY06
Infrastructure*
Temporary Employment* Generated  From 0.25 million to 0.4 million FY 06  Department of Local Government
through KPP civil works.
Note: Poverty data based on PIHS (1998/99) survey and its methodology is contested by the Government of Sindh.
-33-



VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
115.   The proposed credit is a high return/high risk credit. The high return comes from supporting a
comprehensive program of reforms implemented by the leadership and the executing agencies of a
province that directly affect poverty and welfare of the more than 30 million people of Sindh. This return
comes from improving fiscal and financial management so that more and higher quality resources can go
to fight poverty, ensuring that public service delivery improves through greater accountability and
empowerment of the people, and creating incomes and jobs through specific actions to improve the
investment climate for growth. In a short period of time, these reforms are already showing results in
terms of greater enrollment, immunization coverage, and improvements in public finances and financial
accountability - all of which are reversing decade long trends. Indeed, given the scope and potential
impact of this program and the demonstrated commitment of the leadership of the province to this
program, withholding support from this credit will undermine the credibility of the Bank after close to a
two year long dialogue and discourage future champions of reforms. The high risk comes from the
transitory political situation in Pakistan and the coming into office of newly elected provincial
governments in October and possible weakening in their commitment to the continuity of the reforms.
These risks and their mitigating measures are discussed in some detail below.
A. Benefits
116.   The benefits of this credit will come from poverty reduction and faster human development as
indicated by the monitoring indicators in Table 7 above. These outcomes will come from the following
measures. Fiscal restructuring will raise the space for high priority poverty reducing expenditures with a
special emphasis on increasing expenditures on goods and services and operations and maintenance. By
raising public savings and reducing future liabilities through accelerated payment of expensive debt and
pension funds capitalization, the reforms will put provincial finances on a more sustainable basis.
Financial management reforms will increase fiscal transparency and accountability and enhance the
effectiveness of expenditures. A better disciplined civil service and institutions, transparent and
accountable to local Governments and communities will increase incentives for better performance and
service delivery. Regulatory and infrastructure reforrs will improve the investment climate and help to
increase incomes and employment. Extensive monitoring arrangements have been made and are being
strengthened so that it can identify and track the variables to evaluate the impact of these reforms.
B. Risks
117.   The operation faces essentially three types of risks - continuity risks, implementation capacity
risks; and risks from exogenous shocks. Of all the risks, continuity of reforms risk, closely related to
political risk, is the most important. Newly elected provincial governments will take office in October
2002, and there is the unavoidable question whether the next government will continue implementing the
current reform program. The new Governments will face political risks such as resistance from
politicians and civil servants to loss of opportunity for rent seeking and corruption and the loss of power
to local Governments. Civil servant and public sector employees will resist privatization and rightsizing.
118.   Continuity of reform risk is mitigated by several factors. First, and most important are the efforts
of the GoS to build consensus around this home growth program. A recent aspect of this has been to
involve some of the newly elected district heads/Nazims -- the bridge to future governments -- in the
reform program. As part of this effort, the GoS held a very successful Sindh Development Forum in
February where provincial Ministers and some newly elected Nazims explained their reform efforts to a
wide cross-section of civil society, politicians and development partners. In general, as noted GoS has
done an impressive task of building partnerships with the private sector and civil society in the various
reform tasks-as exemplified in the active engagement of the private sector and academia in the
-34-



Economic Development Council, and the Provincial Committee on Investment. The GoS is planning to
build a more systematic communications strategy to explain its reforms and the relatively quick. and
visible improvements that are already being obtained to the people of Sindh. The aim will be to raise the
political costs of reversing reforms for future governments.
119.  The second mitigating factor is GoS's reforms have been institutionalized in bodies such as the
newly elected district Governments, the Public Accounts Committee, provincial Fiscal Monitoring
Committee, the Provincial Committee on Investment, and at a more micro, but also important, level in the
School Management Committees, Farmer's Organizations, and the Road Fund Oversight commnittees.
These institutions increase transparency and develop stakeholders in civil society who will offer
resistance to reversal of reforms. The third factor is the reforms pursued by the GoS is part of a similar
reform program pursued at the Federal level where the President will remain in office, providing an
important measure of continuity. Fourth, legal arrangement have also been made to induct technocrats in
future provincial Governments. Thus, it is possible that some of the current reformers will continue in
their role. Fifth, specific measures will be taken to assist those who are adversely affected by the reforms,
e.g. public sector employees who are separated, to defuse their opposition.
120.  Implementation capacity risks are also high and stem from the capacity constraints at both the
provincial and district levels and the comprehensiveness and significant enhancement in size of programs
(especially social sectors) may turn out to be too ambitious. To mitigate this risk, technical assistance is
being provided to support the key areas of reform through Bank assistance and a Government of Japan
supported PHRD grant. Thus, technical assistance is being provided in all the areas of reforms covered
under this credit. Bank assistance is also supplemented by assistance from the ADB in the area of
agriculture and irrigation reforms and roads and rural infrastructure. In addition, the GoS has organized
itself well to follow up on implementation of reform program (see para 114). The GoS is drawing upon
the extensive private sector and research capacity present in Karachi. It has drawn up plans to. use the
Applied Economic Research Center, the Social Policy Development Center, Aga Khan University, and
the Institute of Chartered Accounts of Pakistan to provide consultancy and implementation assistance.
Also, most of the short run reforms proposed' here are ongoing or nearing completion and there has been
close World Bank assistance in helping the GoS prepare this program both through staff and by using
well qualified local consultants.
121.  Finally, the risks from exogenous shocks are also high in Pakistan given that it is still on path of
recovery, burdened with high debt, and located in a turbulent region. Specifically, growth may turn out to
be less than anticipated because of the impact of a longer than expected global slowdown or protracted
border tensions, the consequences of continued uncertainty on investor confidence, and the effects of
droughts on agricultural output. Revenue collections and transfers from the Federal Government could
decline and affect the medium term fiscal program. To some extent, these risks are national and beyond
the control of the GoS province. However, if faced with such events, GoS's main task will be to make
necessary adjustment to these shocks through further deepening the fiscal restructuring and governance
reform program that it has embarked on.
-35-



Annex A
Page I of 7
GOVERNMENT OF SINDH - POLICY REFORM MATRIX
GoS Reforms Implemented by FY02                         Medium-Tenm Reform Actions (FY03-FY05)         |          Outcomes
(AcUons in Italhcs Represent Prior Actions for Board)    (Actions in llalics are Key Benchmarkes for Future SSACs)
-  -   -      A; FISCAL AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORMS         - - -      . .
Implement fiscal    Tax Reforms                                                     Strengthen insitutional framework for provincial revenue  Annual provincial lax revenue
restrucurng to        GoS has expanded the provincial tax base by: (i) introducing agriculture  cllection (i computerizing land and tax rcords; fi) using satellite  cairane each gear)
create more fiscal  income tax, (D) rationalizing stamp taxes by reducing their number and  imagig to MneaSe agrculure income tax andland revenues (by  ve   e   Y
space for poverty   making these ad-valorem; and (iii) enlarging property tax base by  end FY03); and (iii) integrating Excise & Taxaton Departments  More effective public
reducing            increasing rating areas from 26 to 42 and adding another 100,000  acn Baoft RevenueF0into   a r   incal Revenue
expenditures and    properUes.Atoiyatce                                                            oteFnneDprmn (by end FY04).             expenditures closely linked to
improve quality of                                                                                                                         poverty reduction outcomes
expenditures.       Expenditure Prioritization
* Expenditures were increased for social sectors and infrastructure in FY  Deepening of expenditure prioritization based on well targeted  ^ Provincial revenues to increase
01 and FY 02 budget. Non-salary expenditures for key education sector  and costed sector strategies and a medium-term expenditure  by 15.4% p.a. increasing from
activities were doubled in FY 02 budgetfrom last year. The current budget  framework.                                  1.7% to 2.1% of GPDP.
allocation for health has increased by 16%. The ADP is giving prionty to                                               ^ Share of development budget to
completing on-going schemes by allocabng 75% of the ADP.       ^ Implementation of the Medium Term Fiscal Restructuring Plan  increase from 9% (FY 01) to 18%
Retiring of Liabilities and Debt                               from FY03 with the following benchmarks                 (FY 06) of all expenditures).
* GoS has retired its arrears and over-drafts (2% of GPDP) accumulated  - provincial revenue collections, AIT and Abiana collections  ^ Operation and Maintenance
over the past decade.                                          - ceilings on wage expenditures                         share to increase from 9% to 16%
- 75% allocation of ADP to completing priority expenditures  of all expenditures.
Fiscal Restructuring                                           - capitalization of GP. fund/pension fuds and use of G.P. fund  * Education and Health sector
^ The GoS has adopted a Medium Term Fiscal Restructuring Plan to  net receipts for G.P. Fund capitalization            share in current expenditures to
increase provincial revenues, pro-poor expenditures, reduce future  - acceleratedrepaymentofexpensive debt             increase from 28% to 39%.
expenditure obligations such as debt servicing, and pension obligations on  - provision  severancepackages  a  .       * Capitalization of GPI Pension
a sustainable basis.                                                                                                   Funds (Rs. 13.3 billion by FY 05).
^ Accelerated repayment of debt
by Rs. 6.8 billion.
More reliable,       Adopt a public Financial Management Reform Program (FMRP) that  ^ Completion of Provinial Financial Accountability Assessment  * Improved financial management
comprehensive,     includes: (a) 100% reconciled provincial and district Public Finandal  and preparation of a tme bound Action Plan.     in provincial and local
timely and accurate  Statements (b) elimination of unidentified expenditures and financing (c)                                             govemments.
information pertaining  institutional strenothening of Distridct Accounts Offices and below (d)  ^ Introduction of the NAM and roll out of the PIFRA computerized  Detailed targets of the FMRP are
to provincial and  implementation of NAM and roll out of PIFRA systems and (e)     system in all districts                                 provided in Annex F.
district govemment  computerization of payroll.                                     * Cany out institutional capacity development plan, including
financial transactions.                                                                upgradation of DAOs, recruitment and training.
Fiscal Transparency and Better Accounts: GoS has produced fiscal  * Incremental improvement in mconclation of Providenf Fund
monitoring reports that present quarterlty statements on revenue  accounts, all assets and liabilities to be achieved 100% by
collections, and expenditures. These reports are based on improved  FY2005.
accounts - with 80% reconciliation of civil accounts.
^ Budget Implementation: GoS has streamlined budget-financing
procedures to ensure timely release of development expenditures and high
pnority non-salary social sector expenditures.                   Amendment/enactment of appropriate rules for timely   ^ Increased credibility of provincial
Availability of                                                                    submission of audit reports to provincial and district Public  and local govemment financial
govemment financial  ^ Provincial Public Accounts Committee has been formed and is  Accounts Committees and for Umely review by them.      statements with the public and
statement information  completing the review of the most recent FY00 accounts. The PAC                                                     donor community.
to the citizens.    sessions have been opened to the Press and other interested parties.



Annex A
Page 2 of 7
GOVERNMENT OF SINDH - POLICY REFORM MATRIX
GoS Refonns Implemented by FY02                         Medium-Tenn Refonn Acions (FY03-FYO5)                   Outcomes
(Actions in Italics Represent Prior Actions for Board)  (Actions in Italics are Key Benchmarks for Future SSACs)
* Publication of the annual accounts of the Public Sector  More open, productive, and
Enterprises, authorities and other autonomous bodies with the  answerable govemment.
budget document from FY03.
* Enhanced oversight role of professionals and dtizens in project
planning, implementation, and delivery systems for improved
efficiency and value for money (FY03).
Improved intemal                                                                  * Establish Intemal Audit unit for each ministry/department.  * Increased deterrence to fraud,
control environment  * Government adoption of a Financial Management Reformn Program,                                                    waste and abuse of public funds
including decision to appoint Provincial Financial Controller.  *Annual implementation review of PAC and DAC directives (FY03  and investment as indicated by
and FY 04).                                            audit reports.
* Revision of provincial procurement rules and manuals,
Shortened                                                                         standardizing bidding documents, and establishing. an effective
procurement periods                                                               mechanism to redress complaints from suppliers, to simplify the  Improvement in transparency and
and reduction in     Procurement reform policy adopted under Finandal Management Reform  process, increase transparency and efficiency, and introduce a  efficiency in public procurement.
irregularities and  Program.                                                      code of conduct and ethics for public officials handling
complaints                                                                        procurement (FY03).
* Enact a Procurement Law legislating the fundamental principles
of good public procurement (FY04).
Implement fiscal     The GoS has unbundled the provincial budget into provindal and 16  * Provincial Finance Commission Awards have been made with a  * A transparent (e.g. formula
decentralization   district budgets.                                              combination of untied grants and conditional grants to provide  driven) and certain federal-
incentives to meet sectoral expenditure targets.       provincial (and then provincial
The Provincial Finance Commission has been set up and will prepare a                                                transfers to localities) of federal
fiscal award formula for transfers to districts based on population, fscal  ' Prepare and implement the fiscal decentralization(plan (FY03   fund s (b FY03).
efforts, and backwardness,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       *Preand   anF mpeetYh isaoecn4aiaonpa.(Y0              * An increase in local own-source
efforts, and backwardness.       and FY 04).                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~taxation.
^ Strengthen district level fiscal monitofing frameworks.  ' At least 66% of disticts, tehsils,
and union councils preparing and
* Ensure streamlining of funding release procedures to sub-  managing own budgets. (AG
distic tiers (Taluqas and Union) of Govemments.        Reports).
*Services delivery indicator
improvements (Third Party
Validation Survey of indicators)
based on indicators.
* Progress toward addressing the
gender gap in social indicators.



Annex A
Page 3 of 7
GOVERNMENT OF SINDH - POLICY REFORM MATRIX
GoS Reforms Implemented by FY02                          Medium-Term Reform Actions (FY03-FY05)                   Outcomes
.________________    (Actions in Italics Represent Pror Actions for Board)     (Acons in Italics are Key Benchmarks for Future SSACs)
---             . -   :-     B. IMPI VING GOVERNANCE OF CML SERVICE AND PUBLIC SERVICE DELIVERY                                    -
CIV[L SERVICE REFORAMS
Promoting           * Improving quality at entry: The GoS has promulgated the Sindh Public  * Extend the autonomy of the PSC to indude administrative  ^ Staff with appropriate
Professionalism and  Servce Commission Ordinance, which provides the Commission with  autonomy, amending its status as an attached department and  qualifications in post.
Merit               administrative and financial autonomy, security of tenure, and associated  alloving it to discipline its own staff, removing the option for the
rules which provides the PSC with control over all appointments of officials  govemor to overtum its decisions and extending its scope to
over grade II instead of only over Grade 17 as previously.     include contract-based recruitment.
* Reducing Transfers: GoS has been reducing transfers and the average  ^ Introduce merit promotion arrangements at district govemment
tenure for senior officers has increased to 15 months, compared to less  level (equivalent of the Public Service Commission for recruitment
than 12 months before.                                         and promotion within distridct govemment). (FY03 and 04).
.  Strengthening Discipline: GoS has enforced the Sindh Civil Service Act  * Introduce regular monitoring of transfers of officials to make
(1973), the assodated Govemment Rules of Business (1986), and using  transparent the numbers of transfers and check progress in  Reduction in the frequency of
the new Removal from Service (Special Powers) Ordinance, 2000 to  redudng transfers. GoS will review Civil Service Act and the  transfers of senior civil servants.
strengthen disciplinary powers. These powers have been used to take  Rules of Business to see how these can be revised to enforce
actions against more than 600 senior officers including doctors for  existing rules that discourage transfers of civil servants before
absenteeism and other charges.                                 three years (FY 03).
Strengthening Local  ^ Formation of District Govemments and Staffing: District Govemments  ' GoS will set up the distric dvil service cadre to work directly  ^ District Civil Service Cadre and
Accountability      have been formed, Provincial and Distric Departments reorganized, and  under local Govemments (FY 03 and FY 04) who will have the  Service Rules established.
GoS has transferred 270,000 staff to the district Govemments (though they  authority to hire and fire them.
continue to be paid by provincial budgets).
Contractual Employment and Reducing Absenteeism: The Department  ^ Powers of School Management Committees to be enhanced to  ^ Improvements in services as
of Education has instituted the use of school-specific contracts in recruiting  increase their rote in include hiring and removal of teachers,  monitored by indicators.
teachers to ensure greater accountability. The Health Department has  based on vetting by the appropriate local Govemment (FY 03).
implemented measures to stop absenteeism. Some 1500 doctors have
been served notice and more than 350 doctors removed from service.
Improvements in     ^ GoS has frozen vacant positions and abolished 12000 vacant positions  ^ Conducting a comprehensive civil service census in FY 03 and  Comprehensive human resource
Human Resource     in FY 01.                                                       preparation of human resource data base over FY 04.     date base established,
Management and                                                              .                                                              computerized, and regularly
Rightsizing the       Improved Data for Human Resource Management: The Services and  Prepare for the greater use of contract-based employment  updated.
Govemment           General Administration Department has started an initial headcount of dvil  through legal changes to prevent regularization, ensuring robust  ^ Consistency of personnel and
servants expected to be completed by March 2002 providing data on the  establishment and budget controls, and extending the overview  payroll files.
order of magnitude of errors in the existing payroll data.     provided by the PSC (FY 03).                            * Redeployment and rightsizing of
civil service.
^ GoS to take actions to eliminate ghost workers, and to develop
a VRS scheme, subject to adequate safeguards to prevent
adverse selecion and rehiring of retrenched staff. as per the
medium term fiscal plan (FY 03 to 06).
* Rationalizing Provincial Departments and Agencies: The number of  * Right sizing exercises Will be undertaken in all remaining
provincial Departments has been reduced from 29 to 23. Three   provincial departments as per Cabinet instructions issued earlier
departments have been carrying out some right-sizing exercises under  (FY 03).
which around 831 staff from six departments were moved to the Surplus
Pool for redeployment. Around a dozen provincial enterprises and
autonomous bodies have been closed down or merged.



Annex A
Page 4 of 7
GOVERNMENT OF SINDH - POLICY REFORM MATRDX
GoS Reforms Implemented by FY02                         Medium-Tem Reform Acdons (FY03FY05)
l__________  (Acdons in Italics Represent Prior Actions for Board)  |  (Actions in Italics are Key Benchmarks for Future SSACs)  _
IMPROVING PUBLIC SERVICE DELIVERY: EDUCATION
Improving Access to  GoS has launched two enrollment drives in primary education that will  * Launch an awareness campaign for education;  * Primary net enrollment rates will
Education          raise enrollment by 5%.                                                                                                 be increased from 60% to 82% by
* Annual and bi-annual district wide drives to increase enrollment  2005. The number of out of
* It has introduced Free & Compulsory Education in 16 talukas in FY02,  and retention in FY031FY04.                     school children will be reduced
and will cover all 102 talukas by FY04.                                                                                from 2.2 million to 1.1 million by
2005.
* The GoS has made 3796 schools fundiona- wifth 1858 stll dosed and to  * Provide the missing physical facilities to schools as per targets.  * All remaining dosed schools to
be made functonal in FY03-FY04, through teacher re-deployment and new                                                   be made functional by 2004 (1,858
faclity-based teacher recruitment.                                                 .                                    remaining will be made functional).
* Ga is rovdingfre texbook toall ura andurba slm feale * Extend free textbook program in 2003 School Year to all
*GoS is provicing free textbooks to all rural and urban slum female  govemment primary schools.                       * Free & Compulsory Primary
primary students in govemment schools. For the 2002 School Year, GoS  * Expand the Free & Compulsory Education policy to all 102  Education covering all 102 talukas
has provided free textbooks to all boys as well as gins in pimary schools.  talukas by FY04.                           by end FY04).
Improving Quality,  'Approve the education assessment system.                      * Implementation of Provincial Student Assessment System.  * All schools to have school
Accountability, and  * School Management Committees (SMGCs) have been provided enhanced                                                    management committees by FY
Govemance           powers for monitoring teacher attendance and implementaion of school  * Further expand powers of Sd70oo Management Committees to  03.
non-salary budgets.                                            indude hiring and firing dedsions (with arrangements for appeal)
* All new teachers are being appointed on contracts to specific sdiools, so  and strengthen their linkages to the Citzen Community Boards.  * Most SMCs trained.
that they can be held accountable to the school management committees.  (FY03).
Recruitments are merit based and transparent, with private sector and
community involvement in carryng out competency tests and interviews;  * Implement teacher training and re-certification program in FY 03  * All teachers to undergo
* GoS has initiated intensive teacher training program for 20,000 teachers  and FY04 and continue partnership with IED. Introauce  competency testing and remedial
and conducting of teacher competency programs. Initiated partnership for  Perfomance based incentives for teachers.    training as needed.
teacher education with lED.
Distridct education management has been set up and strengthened.  * Continue program to strengthen distridc education administration
Manual establishing rules and procedures to danfy the functions and  including setting up and monKtodng performance indicators (FY
responsibilties of the distrid education staff, guidelines on accessing funds  04).
and carrying out monitoring and evaluation responsibilifies issued. .
Improve Monitoring  * Research, Monitoring and Evaluation Cell of DOE has been set up and it  * Strengthen capacity of R&M&E Cell           Teacher absenteeism reduced.
and Evaluaton       has iniffated monitoring of schools.                                                                                    Regular Annual Data Made
*Thind Party Validation Surveys by distrtds have been completed  Publidy Available on Enrollment,
and distrid wise sence delivery benchmaiks established (FY03,  Retention and Graduabon Rates;
FY04) and publidzed.                                    Proportion of teachers who have
passed competency tests; share of
women teacers, Schools Made
Funcional, Free Texbook and
other incentive programs.
IMPROVING PUBLUC SEL RVCE DELIVERY: HEALTH
Prepare a good        Adoption of a Comprehensive Outcome Based Strategy based on  * Implement strategy and track progress towards achieving goals  * Adequate capacity of district
acionable health    National Health Policy into strategy note and implementaion plan vwith  and targets as presented in (FY 03-FY04).      health system specifically for
sector strategy with  defined targets in seven key areas.                                                                                  management, planning, and
dear targets                                                                                                                               financial management.



Annex A
Page 5 of 7
GOVERNMENT OF SINDH - POLICY REFORM MATRIX
GoS Reforms implemented by FY02                         Medium-Term Reform Acions (FY03-FY05)                   Outcomes
(Actions in Italics Represent Prior Actions for Board)  (Actions in Italics are Key Benchmarks for Future SSACs)
Strengthen and       Strengthen the routine immunization program with GAVI support and  * Annual District Assessment of Immunization Coverage using  'An increase in immunization
expand              expand the EPI coverage of 12 to 23 months of children from 39 percent to  third party.                              coverage of children 12-23 months
immunization and TB  50 percent.                                                                                                        from 39% to 80% by 2005.
programs                                                                           Expansion of DOTS in NGO/prvate sector in urban areas in  * No case of Polio reported after
*   Program for hepatitis B vaccination initiated in 2 districts and NIDS  FY03 and FY 04.                           Dec 2002.
and SNIDS undertaken with number of confirmed Polio cases                                                         * An increase in immunization
dcreasing from 65 in 2000 to 23 in 2001.                   ^ Capacity building of LHWs, Malaria Supervisors to provide  coverage of two doses of TT from
*   Supplementary imimunization to be undertaken in 16 districts in high-  immunization services (FY 03 and FY 04).  48% to 80% by 2005.
risk areas.                                                                                                        Increase coverage of program
*   EPI directorate strengthening for monitoring & supervision  Continue supplementary TT immunization campaigns annually  from 8% to 100% by 2004.
Target an increase in immunization coverage of 12-23 month
^ Phased Expansion of TB DOTS strategy: PIoram expanded to five  children and two doses of TT                        * Detect 70% of all cases and
districts vith increased coverage from 8% to 31%., strengthening of  *  FY03 - 55%                                   successfully treat 85% of them.
directorate and Quartedy monitoring and reporting system implemented -  *  FY04 - 65%
100% reporling                                                *   FY5 - 80%
^ Expansion of TB DOTS strategy in all districts by 2004 with
annual targets - FY03 - 75%; FY04 100%X.
Improve access to  ^ GoS has developed policy guidelines for public private partnerships and  ^ No construction of new facilities.        More private sector participation
health care services  adverised facilities for public prvate partnerships.                                                               in health care.
by contracting out
newly constructed
pwmary health care                                                                * Contract out facilities to NGOs and private sector (FY 03 and
facilities to NGOs                                                                FY 04).
and orvate sector
Improve Heath      *DoH is conducting monitoring of absenteeism and 350 doctors have  Development of policy guidelines for District Managers.  *Improved in quality of service
sector Govemance    been disrnissed.                                              Implement in-service training program for district managers in  delivery and utilization as
and District        ^ All transfers have been made transparent.                   management, planning and financial management (FY 03).  confirmed by TPV surveys.
Management         ^ Procurement process is being made more transparent and put under
scrutiny.                                                     Implement detailed proposal for capadty building (FY 03 and FY
04).
Enhance Monitoring  ^EPI Directorate strengthened with addiional staff and new monitoring  * Strengthen monitoring and evaluation unit at the provincial level  ^ Provincial Monitoring Unit
and Evaluation     techniques.                                                    Undertake annual distrid level Third Party Validation Survey  strengthened and regular
Capacity:                                                                         (FY 03 and FY 04).                                     monitoring of district facilities
__________________________________________________  ________________________________________ surveuyeyd.
IMPROVING PUBUC SERVICE DELI ERY: RURAL WATER AND SANITATION
Expand and          ^ Adoptlreinforce uniform policy of community partcidaion, involvement  ^ Implement all RWSS schemes with community participation and  * Improvement in Coverage of
Rehabilitate Rural  and cost sharing as the guiding principle for all RWSS schemes  maintenance arrangements. Mobilize communities to share costs  Drinking Water from 61% to 80%.
Drinking Water and                                                                of provision and O& M.
Sanitation Schemes  ^ Provide Taluka Govemments adequate and timely funds for the
on a Sustainable   rehabilitation of existing and maintenance of recently built RWSS schemes.  ^ Implement five year rolling plan prepared for RWSS schemes
Basis                                                                            that doubles the allocation by FY 04, which is feasible.



Annex A
Page 6 of 7
GOVERNMENT OF SINDH - POLICY REFORM MATRIK
GoS Reforms Implemented by FY02                         Medium-Term Reformn Actons (FY03-FY05)                  Otoe
(Actions in talics Represent Prior Actions for Board)   (Actions in Hialics are Key Benchmarks for Future SSACs)  _
______________                        IMPROVING PUBUC SERVICE DELIVERY: URBAN SERVCES
Improve livability of  * Establish empowered local government (LG) structures with dearly  Strengthen LG capacity through staff rationalization, HRD and  'Empowered LGs in place,
urban areas through  defined functional responsibilities. Rationalize urban service provision  training; development of systems and procedures (FY 03 and FY  pursuing high priority development
improved efficency,  agendes under LGs in 15 common and one City District, remove funcdional  04).                                       programs (F 04 - FY 05).
coverage, and quality overlaps; assign dear roles and responsibilities.
of basic infrastruture                                                            * Continue improvement of urban slums for the shelter-less urban  * Urban areas more livable and
services in a       * Regularize dwellers rights in 929 slums, complete regularization work in  poor based on recently approved National Policy on Katchi  better managed (FY 04 - FY 05).
sustainable manner  623, and execute development and improvement work in 486 urban slums  Abadis, Urban Renewal and Slum Upgradation (ongoing).
through SKAA.
Ensure accountable,  * Set up public-private partnership bodies for urban development in the  Establish effective policy/regulatory oversight for LGs at  * Adequacy & effidency of public
transparent &       Economic Development Coundl (EDC) under the chaimianship of the  provindal level; require LGs to publish & disseminate annual  grievance redressal system (FY 04
responsive service  Govemor with a 50% prvate sector representaton, to fadlitate  reports on perfomiance (FY 03-FY 05).                  - FY 05).
provision instituions  implementafion of the GoS's Program for Economic Revival of Karachi
and LGs             (PERK) by cuting across bureaucratc layers and bottienecks.   * Take dedsion regarding future institutional arrangements of  * Increased stakeholder
KWSB, and required ac00ns towards improved service provision.  parUcdpabon in development
dedsions. (FY 04 - FY 05).
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
REGULATO~RY REFORMS__________
Implement          * Streamline Factory Inspections: The number of inspections reduced  * Over the next six month period to develop a monitoring and  * Level of factory and labor
Regulatory Reforms  from 23 to 7 for facories (and to 4 for shops) with all visits to take place in  evaluation system of regulatory reform impact in partnership with  inspections does not exceed the
to Improve the     two days. The number of items checked in inspections has been reduced.  Transparency Intemational (FY 03).            levels agreed as short-term
Business Climate   Regulafions lmiting opening hours for shops have been repealed.                                                       measures for this crerdi
*Further rationalization of regulatory activities and evaluating the
* Taking Action Against Harassment and Corruption: Internal   impact of the new regulatory regime (FY 03).           * Implementation Confimied by
management has been strengthened. Disdplinary acdons have been taken                                                 independent sources. More
against staff for harassment against the private sector.                                                             streamlined and modemized
* Institonal strengthening of regulatory bodies: (i) Building  regulatory framework introduced
* Strelining Labor Laws: The number of labor laws is in the process of  human resources, professionalizing the operaing environment  as monntored by surveys.
being reduced from over 27 laws, regulatons and ordinances to 6 laws.  and introdudng technology in all aspects of operations; (ii)
These laws which have been joinfly developed by the GOS and the  intoduction of user fees ftr regulatory services; and (iii)
Federal Govemment all require federal ratficaton              developing an independent and autonomous regulatory capacty
indusive of all businesses (FY 04).
Promoting public-     The Sindh Prit  on Commission has been set up by promulgation  * Complefion of prvatization in the following categories of assets  Bringing to the point of sale I
private partnerships  with adequate funding and autonomy in partnership with the private sector  (i) lands and other unutilized assets; (ii) state corporations whkh  Privatizaton Transactions under
and the master list of assets of assets to be prvatized has been approved.  in many cases are no longer operating; (b) large enterprises  these categories (GoS).
(KWSB assets and sugar mill&
* Carry out an inventory of the assets and enterpises in order to establish  * Implementation of contracing out the functions of the GOS.  Bringing at least three pilot
the, employment, finandal position, and fiscal impact of privatzabon.                                                transactions to the point of sale.



Annex A
Page 7 of 7
GOVERNMENT OF SINDH - POLICY REFORM MATRIX
GaS Reforms Implemented by FY02                          Medium-Term Reform Actions (FY03-FY05)        FOtoe
(Actions in Italics Represent Prior Actions for Board)   (AcUons in Italics are Key Benchmarks for Future SSACs)
BUILDING INFRASTRUCTURE: THE ROADS SECTOR
Improve retums to   * Communication and Works Department's (CWD)'s stocktaking of road  * Establish a Road Sector Development Directorate (RSDD)  'Completion of provincial road
investment through  conditions has been carded out. CWD has prepared maintenance backlog  whose operations will be guided by a Steering Committee with the  network inventory and condition
(i) better road asset  estimate and a maintenance prioritization plan. A medium term road  assistance of a Citizens Advisory Board (FY 03).  surveys (CWD for all roads).
inventory; (ii) better  maintenance funding plan has been approved under the Fiscal                                                          Annual total road maintenance
maintenance of roads  Restructuring Plan. .                                        * Update a five-year rolling plan, the road condition survey  allocations at 65% [or plus] of
on a prioritized basis;                                                            parameters for provincial highways for prioritkiing the road  requirements
(iii) updating cost  * Expenditure Prioritization: CWD has allocated 70% of its share of the FY  maintenance program, FY 03 and FY 04).    * Annual Targets for decrease in
estimates; and (iv)  2001-02 maintenance budget to priority roads, and has prepared a larger                                               overall road user costs based on
better budgeting to  prioritized list of roads with associated required maintenance. CWD has  * Design standards and specifications, environmental  analysis of percent of roads in
reducing throw      sent the PPRMS plan (road priofitization plan) to district govemments to  management manuals (FY 03).                  Good/Fair/Poor Conditons.
forward.            use this plan to prioritize.                                                                                           * Share of provincial roads in poor
* Setting up of a non-apsable road maintenance fund dedicated  conditions decreased from 70% to
* Rationalization of Existing Portfolio: CWD will complete the  to routine maintenance. The potential sources of funds are  50%.
rationalization of its existing Development portfolio (budgeted and  expected to include fuel levies, cesses, revenues from tolls and
abandoned) with the aim of prioritizing the ADP road expenditures, rapid  surcharges on heavy vehicles. Its goveming board will include
completion of on-going works, and managing the throw-forward.(Mar- 02).  representatives of the private sector to monitor the maintenance.
CWD is focusing on completion of 350 on-going schemes.         (FY 04).
Implement           * Implementing Devolution: The CWD has devolved its share of the.intra-  ' Prepare a restructuring plan to rafionalize staff skill mix and
Devolution of the   district road network (approximately 16,020 kmn) and half the staff (8,475) to  numbers based on post devolution structure of the Works and
Roads Maintenance  the district governments' works and services group of offices. The road  Services department (FY 03).
Program             maintenance budget has been separated and CWD has sent guidelines to
district govemments on how to prioritize their share of the maintenance
allocation and submit their priorities to be incorporated in the medium term
rolling plan for provincial road expenditures.
AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION
Increase Agriculture  GoS has increased effectveness of agriculture extension services by (i)  Rationalize procurement prices by setting wheat and cotton o  Higher growth of wheat and
Sector Growth and   taking measures to reduce absenteeism to In the case of extension  prices at the export parity price, while the procurement prices of  cotton crops.
Yields through      workers, monthly salary has been made contingent upon at least five  all other crops will be their market prices.
improvement in      farmers (who are changed every month) certifying their presence and
Extension and       contribution; (ii) holding field days and farmer days in villages to make a  * Reduce public sector presence by closing down Sindh  Greater private sector
Irrigation Services  special effort to disseminate best practice.                  Agriculture Supply Organization, its Food Department, and the  participation in produce, inputs,
and Regulatory                                                                     Sindh Seed Corporation, with the staff of these agencies to be  extension services and research.
Reforms             * GoS has established the Sindh Irrigation Development Authority (SIDA)  assigned to the surplus pool or paid a severance package.
under which water boards and farmers organizations are being set up to
collect higher imngation charges and then take charge of maintenance, with  * Contnue program of rrgation infrastrucure rehabilitation with  Higher infrastnucture
the technical help of SIDA. The GoS's medium term fiscal restructuring  greater farmer participation in Area Water Boards under the SIDA  rehabilitation and maintenance
plan also includes sizeable increase in allocations for the rehabilitation of  and public sector investments.          with indicators
irrigation and increasing water charges to promote more efficient use of
this scarce resource.
* GoS has removed market barriers by lifting restidctions on the intemal  Increase access to the private sector under which private seed  Greater commercial viability of
movement of agricultural commodities.                          companies will get access to breeder seed developed by the  research institutes indicated by
provindal public sector research institutes.            oost recovery.



Annex B
SHAUKAT AZIZ                                              ISLAMABAD
Minister for Finance
& Economic Affairs
May 24, 2002
Mr. James D.Wolfensohn,
President,
World Bank,
Washington, DC 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
Please find attached a Letter of Development Policy, dated 22 May
2002, from the Government of Sind to the Ministry of Finance. The letter
delineates the broad and comprehensive reform agenda, through which the
Government of Sind proposes to strengthen and consolidate its economic
program, and for which it has sought assistance from the International
Development Association of SDR 79.1 million (US $ 100 million
equivalent).
The Government of Pakistan supports this continued initiative and
recommends the proposal for consideration of the International
Development Association.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,



ftoa: Off. 921209S
9211340
MINSTER FOR FINANCE
PLAPNNING & DEVEWPM
DEPARTMENT
GOVERNMENT OF SINDE
Kuiw, da   t     22nd MayW2.
Dr. Abdul lIateez Shaikh
Mr. Shaukat Aziz
Minister of Finance
Government of Pakistan
Letter of Development Policy
1.    As you are aware, the present government inherited a legacy of poor govemance, characterized
by fiscal stress, a constricted and punctured tax base, rapidly diminishing fiscal space to initiate poverty
reduction efforts in a concerted manner, financial indiscipline, rising provincial debt, a huge inventory of
unpaid liabilities and a disconnect between the government's expenditure priorities and the investment
portfolio. There was a bloated civil service with limited modern skills, presiding over an institutional
framework whose efficiency and efficacy was constrained by poorly structured mechanisms for ensuring
accountability of service providers to service recipients, institutional and structural arrangements that
failed to foster and uphold good govemance practices, appointment systems and procedures driven by
non-merit based criteria and lack of transparency in the application of rules and regulations. Resultantly,
the inhabitants of the province had to contend with the delivery of poor quality public services in the key
social sectors of education, health and rural water supply and sanitation and large deficits in the
availability of infrastructure like roads and irrigation and drainage.
2.     All these factors contributed to the failure of the government to support growth, to the continuing
deficit in the social indicators and to the rising levels of poverty, with the residents of the province faring
poorly against those in other parts of the country. The overall incidence of poverty in Sindh has
drastically increased in the last decade and according to an Asian Development Bank sponsored study
compiled in FY 00 almost 85% population of the five southern districts had income of less than one $ a
day. According to another recently completed independent study conducted by Applied Economic
Research Institute (AERC) of the Karachi University 35% of the country's poor (falling in the last
quartile of development ranking) are in Sindh. The Pakistan Household Integrated Survey (PIHS) 1998
data however shows the poverty level in Sindh to be at 29% compared with 33% for the country as a
whole. While the government of Sindh (GoS) has officially disputed these figures as underestimating
poverty in Sindh, even this report illustrates that the rural-urban gap in Sindh is the highest at 18%
percentage points and that the rural poverty at 37% is higher than the country average of 36%. Further the
social indicators are equally disappointing, particularly in the rural areas. Compared with the female
literacy rate and the net primary enrollment in Sindh' s rural areas of 11.2% and 24.5% respectively the
all Pakistan rates for rural areas are 16.8% and 36.4% respectively. Similarly, whereas 62.5% of the rural
population in Sindh has access to any health facility or worker in the village, the indicator for rural
Pakistan is almost 71%.
3.     Moreover, these reasons combined with complicated, unwieldy and parasitic regulatory structures
with overlapping jurisdictions, lack of transparency in government operations and procedures, unclear
mandates and liberally distributed discretionary powers burdened the cost of private commercial
operations, thereby affecting the efficiency and competitiveness of the manufacturing sector in
international and domestic markets.



9211340
MMIS        FOR FINANCE
PLANNING & DEVELOPMET
DEPARTMENT
GOVERNMENT OF SIND
KUrw*bk           22nd May20
Dr. Abdul {atfeez Shai3c
4.     To attend to the protracted neglect of these concerns the Sindh Government launched an intensive
dialogue with all stakeholders, including representatives of civil society. The interaction with the civil
society was undertaken through economic revival taskforce, a series of development dialogues held in
major cities of the province and finally the Sindh development forum organized in early February 2002
where representatives of the government, civil society, diplomatic and international donor community
were brought together for a discourse on provincial government's efforts towards reform and economic
revival of the province. These exchanges enabled us to embark on far-reaching reform program to
address many of the developmental challenges faced by the province to upgrade the quality of lives of its
citizens through an improvement in the education and health indicators of the more vulnerable segments
of the population and through a general reduction in the incidence of poverty.
5.     At the heart of this strong reform agenda lie fiscal, public resource and financial management and
governance reforms. These efforts, resource mobilization measures and reduction in the private sector's
transaction costs will be central to the endeavors of the provincial government to restore fiscal prudence,
re-invigorate growth and achieve a tangible reduction in the rates of poverty.
6.     The core objectives of the reform program are to be achieved through better governance, fiscal
and financial management, improved public service delivery, a reform of the regulatory framework
affecting private sector operations and the wide-ranging exercise for devolution. The latter attempts to
reverse decades of over-centralization of the management of the public sector, which in combination with
the rationalization and re-prioritization of expenditures to improve the efficiency and the restructuring of
institutional policies, arrangements and mechanisms to strengthen the capabilities of local governments to
satisfy their statutory obligations is expected to improve the quality and effectiveness of service delivery.
Complementary reforms involving the streamlining of the process of timely releases of allocations to high
priority poverty reducing areas in the social sectors will help enhance the human development indicators
and achieve a perceptible reduction in poverty within the limits of resource constraints, both financial and
human. Efforts and resources will focus on facilitating the development of the less developed regions of
the province and the less privileged sections of society.
7.     The objectives, design and scope of this comprehensive transformation program are consistent
with the reforms being undertaken by the Government of Pakistan in partnership with the IMF and the
World Bank. In particular it will have a strong linkage with the Pakistan's Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper. The GoS is requesting the International Development Association for a $ 100 million
credit for FY 2002-03 in support of these reform programs.
8.     The key areas identified for reform, a review of the issues pertaining to each sector, the actions
taken by the GoS to date to attend to these weaknesses and the restructuring and transformation planned
for implementation over the medium-term are discussed in the subsequent paragraphs. The paper also
reflects the actions taken on the prior actions and the benchmarks agreed with the World Bank.
Fiscal Management
9.    In recent years the key constraints in the area of fiscal management have been:
2



Vban=: Off: 92I95
9111340
MINSTER FOR FINANCE
PLANNING A DEVELOM         T
DEPARTMENT
GOVERNMENT OF SINDB
KmehSI, ate"     22nd May 31t
Dr. Abdul {afeez SMlb
a)     Lack of fiscal space, partly owing to inflexible expenditures and revenues, for
undertaking investments and supplementing maintenance expenditures in
priority areas.
b)     Overdue improvements in the allocations made for non-salary inputs required
for enhancing the effectiveness of service providers.
c)     The lack of a Medium-Term Fiscal Restructuring Plan to mitigate the negative
impact of such imbalances and weaknesses.
10.   The tax base continues to be narrow primarily because of the highly centralized tax structure that
has resulted in the Federal Government having an almost exclusive preserve over all the buoyant taxes.
Resultantly, provincial revenues only contribute to 23% of expenditures. Nevertheless, over the years the
province had accumulated a host of 23 small low-yielding taxation instruments that were generally
inelastic in their revenue generating potential. Moreover, this structure was not only complex and
unwieldy to administer but was also distortionary and riddled with discretionary powers exercised by
inefficient machinery.
11.   An inelastic tax system and political reluctance to employ user charges to cover costs of provision
of non-merit goods and services meant that revenues were unable to keep pace with growing obligations
on account of salaries, pensions, debt servicing that introduced strong rigidities on the expenditure side,
leading to sharp reductions in real terms in expenditures on key physical and social infrastructure,
impairing future prospects for growth and poverty reducing investments. One the one hand, salaries
absorb in excess of 90% and 74% of the recurrent expenditures in the education and health sectors
respectively. On the other hand, the complicated procedures for ensuring the timely release of allocations
to service delivery sites are not tied to outcomes. These factors have been instrumental in keeping the
efficiency and effectiveness of service provision poor.
12.   A decade ago provincial spending on development and operations and maintenance comprised in
excess of 30% of total expenditures. This share had deteriorated to under 18% by 2001. Moreover,
although capital expenditures were squeezed there was a rapid growth in the number of development
projects initiated resulting in the accumulation of a huge portfolio of on-going development schemes. The
natural outcome of this sharp escalation in the spillover commitmnents of the past and the elongation of
project completion periods were large cost over runs.
13.   The dramatic increase in the size of the provincial civil service from 285,042 in FY 90 to 459,000
by FY 01 and the associated salary bill was accompanied by a rapid build-up of provincial debt. Total
outstanding liabilities include borrowings, employees GP Fund contributions and accrued pension
liabilities and un-availed leaves, while contingent liabilities include guarantees against loans to
parastatals, with loans and advances from the Federal government constituting the bulk, 22%, of
provincial government liabilities. Debt servicing obligations ballooned from 9.25% of total expenditures
to 17.7% at a brisk rate, resulting in the diversion of scarce resources from key priority sectors and
services. The present government is firm and unwavering in its commitment to reverse this trend and
stabilize and reduce the burden of debt servicing on provincial receipts from 16% to 11%.
14.   To address these challenges the GoS has chosen the path of fiscal discipline, a goal to be attained
by enhancing revenues, containing unproductive expenditure increases, lowering future liabilities,
3



fbtoi: Off: 9212095
9211340
MINISTER FOR FINANCE
PLANNING & DEVEIOPMD
DEPARThMNT
GOVERNMENT OF SIH
; WWhl, ae S      22nd
Dr. Abdul l{afeez SMikh
improving financial management and development expenditure efficiency and effectiveness, augmenting
and protecting provisions for high priority expenditures on primary health and education services, non-
wage outlays and maintenance of public assets and infrastructure, while reducing the share of
expenditures on salaries, pensions and debt servicing, and preparing and then executing a medium-term
fiscal restructuring strategy to achieve these objectives on a sustainable basis over the next 3 to 4 years.
To this end it has initiated several reform measures.
Actions Taken
15.   To create fiscal space tax systems are being redefined, restructured, rationalized and simplified
for administrative convenience to augment revenues, reduce evasion and improve taxpayer compliance.
The steps taken include:
a) A reduction in their number from 23 to 10, a pruning of exemptions and the
broadening of the tax base;
b) Revamping of Agriculture Income Tax from a crop cum land-based system to a
combination of land and income based system applicable to holdings in excess of 12
acres in irrigated and 24 acres in un-irrigated areas, while making individual
incomes in excess of Rs. 80,000 from agricultural activities liable to the higher of
the tax on land or income tax;
c) Simplification of the structure of property tax through the merger of four related
taxes and adoption of a uniform rate, coupled with the widening of the property tax
base by launching a massive survey of properties after a gap of 32 years which
added 100,000 new properties to the tax base as the number of areas rated for
property tax purposes increased from 26 to 42. Most importantly the mode of
assessment has been made transparent and the discretion of tax assessing officials
greatly reduced;
d) The rationalization and consolidation of the number of stamp duties (from close to
70 serials to about half that number) and the replacement of the presently less elastic
and administratively cumbersome to monitor structure with one based on ad-
valorem rates so as to give much needed buoyancy to the system;
16.   The revenue impact of these measures was amply reflected in the revenues collected in the last
two years. The provincial taxes are expected to grow by more than 50% from Rs.5335 billion in FY 00 to
an estimated Rs. 8163 by FY 02. Liabilities have also been reduced. Debt and deferred liability
obligations were lowered by Rs.21 billion in 2 years. And by close of financial year 2002 arrears of Rs. 8
billion on account of the blocked account with the State Bank and Sindh Government's liabilities for
domestic and foreign loans would have been settled. GoS plans to make more concerted efforts to
discharge these and other debt related obligations and prevent development of arrears in payment in the
future.
17.   The GoS has also enhanced allocations for high priority expenditures doubling the funding for
non-salary items in basic education and 20% in basic health- to ensure the functionality of created assets
and service providers- and devoted three-fourths of the development funds in FY 2002 to ensure
accelerated completion of viable on-going schemes - particularly in the social sectors and those aimed at
the provision and rehabilitation of physical infrastructure in rural areas- and abandonment of low priority
4



fhoux: Off: 921Z095
9111340
'MNISTER FOR FNANCE
PLANNING A DEVELOPMOqT
DEPARTMENT
GOVERNMET OF SINDJ
lhl,~ed          22nd May    2
Dr. Abdul Ilafeez Shaikb
schemes, so as to reduce the throw forward of the ADP to less than 3 years by the end of FY 2002 and
maintain it at this level thereafter. The implementation of these targets has proceeded well and
expenditures in key social sector items and development have increased considerably in the current fiscal
year. Owing to these measures the number of on-going schemes are programmed to be reduced to less
than 700 from in excess of 1500 at the end of FY 2000 and in future new schemes would be selected after
a very careful scrutiny. Most importantly the increase in the development budget by more than 75% in the
last two years reversed the decline in the development budget.
Medium Term Action Plan
18.   The GoS will be implementing its Medium-Term Fiscal Re-structuring Plan from FY 03. Two
major measures for achieving the objectives associated with the implementation of this plan will be
supportive administrative reforms and the broadening of the base of different taxes.
19.    Recognizing the need to address weaknesses in tax administration for realizing revenue
mobilization targets the GoS plans to strengthen the administrative and technical capacity to levy and
secure taxes by hiving off the revenue collection functions of the Board of Revenue (with the mandate to
assess and collect land tax, AIT, Abiana and stamp duties) to an essentially autonomous
authority/department in which the revenue raising responsibilities of the Excise and Taxation department
will be merged. This new authority will function under the authority of the Finance Department.
Govemment of Sindh plans to move towards the establishment of a Provincial Revenue Authority by
FY04. In the meanwhile during early FY03 arrangements would be made to merge the two revenue
departments and bring both revenue and the Finance departments under a unified command of the
Finance Minister as in the Federal Government.
20.    During FY 03 pilot projects will also be initiated in four districts for introducing modem methods
of crop inspection and assessment, aimed at reducing the element of official discretion in the collection of
agriculture income and land taxes and in Abiana collection. The system of land records and related
transactions will be automated and satellite imaging will be introduced for effecting improvements in the
system of crop assessments. The latter recommendation is expected to go a long way in checking
corruption, in making the system of abiana and AIT assessment more transparent and in mobilizing
additional resources. It will also represent a major shift from the traditional, outmoded revenue
assessment and collection system in the rural sector towards the institution of one that is modem and
scientifically based. This data will be supplemented by abiana assessments being carried out by the
Irrigation Department. In the medium term efforts would be made to attain a sustainable annual growth in
AIT based on the achievements made in the restructuring activities being undertaken in FY 03 so that
AIT is able to achieve its potential of over one billion by the end of FY 06.
21.    The responsibility to collect Abiana will gradually be handed over to Sindh Irrigation and
Drainage Authority (SIDA). The sustainability of the restructured and decentralized irrigation system
would be strengthened by the efficiencies in cost recovery expected to arise from this institutional
arrangement for managing the irrigation system. The GoS plans to increase irrigation water charge
collection by 18% in FY 03 and by 20% p.a. over the medium term, to the extent possible through better
administration. GoS plans to accelerate the implementation of the institutional reforms envisaged under
the National Drainage program, which would enhance cost recovery of irrigated water.
5



fos: OfN: 9212095
92J1340
MfSTE      FOR FBIANCN
PLANNING & DEVELPKERT
DEPAR1TMEN
GOVERNMENT OF SINMID
rje"K            22nd
Dr. Abdul 1{ateez Shikh
22.    The Government of Sindh recognizes that although path-breaking work has been carried out in
the area of property tax considerable room exists for improvement. Some of the proposals under
discussion are to give incentives for compliance while imposing penalties for delays in payment, a
review of the exemptions and equity of the newly installed tax system in not fully capturing the element
of "pugree" (goodwill) of commercial properties etc.
23.    To simplify tax collection, plug leakages and make the Motor Vehicle tax more elastic and
buoyant the provincial government desires to change its mode of collection from the present flat rate tax
per vehicle to a levy on fuel consumption. The present mode of collection other than being inelastic is
ridden with innumerable administrative complications and inefficiencies, including a cumbersome tax
collection method involving regular vehicle inspection with high incidence of leakage. The change in the
mode of collection would also make the tax more equitable by creating a direct linkage with road usage.
This institutional arrangement will also eliminate existing distortions whereby vehicles get registered and
pay tax in one province while essentially plying in another. From FY 2003 the Registration rates
applicable to different categories of vehicles are being considered to be rationalized.
24.    The existing provincial Professional Tax is based on an inelastic, flat rate based, antiquated
structure riddled with anomalies in respect of assessee categories and applicable rates. The Government
of Sindh recognizes the need, and is determined, to completely overhaul both the structure and system of
collection. In this context, a proposal that recommends its linkage to sales/turnover in the case of
conmmercial enterprises is under discussion with the Federal Government.
25.    From FY 03 urban boundary limits are being extended to include all peri-urban areas to enable
land/property earlier classified as agricultural/rural in nature but had acquired urban characteristics to be
treated as urban property for purposes of stamp duty levied on property transfers; this measure will bring
large residential and commnercial areas into the tax net and assist generation of sizeable additional
revenues. Since imposition of stamp duties and registration of documents are closely linked activities and
assignments the offices of Stamps and Registration are being integrated by re-designating the Inspector
General Stamps as Inspector General Stamps & Registration under Member Registration and Stamps in
the Board of Revenue. Moreover, to plug revenue leakages the GoS is planning to appoint qualified
personnel as additional stamp inspectors (presently only 3) and upgrading their posts
26.    To prevent shifting of potential tax bases discussions have also been initiated with the other
provincial governments to institute uniform rates of stamp duties on financial documents and also
incorporate penalty provisions in the legislation. Similarly to plug revenue leakages from excise duty on
liquor the GoS plans to coordinate with the other provincial governments to harmonize the taxation
system by installing a uniform rate structure for all provinces. As an additional measure to check evasion
the GoS will also examine the possibility of replacing the existing structure with a presumptive tax
regime.
27.    Other medium-term reform measures include: a) Renegotiations of rates of land leased out to
private businesses. This change is expected to generate a one time additional revenues in excess of Rs. 1
billion during FY 03 along with faster growth in revenue collection; b) Speedy automation of the
collection systems for Professional and Property taxes and for the Infrastructure Development Fee; c).
6



ftoua: OM: 9212095
921340
MINSri FOR       MNA=
PLANNING A DEVELAOPMgNT
DEPARthEr
GOVERNMENT oF siNDH3
,mm ddetd                    z
Dr. Abdul Raftez Sbaikl2
The upgrading of skills, the creation of appropriate incentive structures and the computerization of the
land and property tax records will help enhance the tax administration capabilities of the revenue
generating departments; d) Launching of resource mobilization studies to develop additional proposals for
consideration as resource augmentation measures.
28.    As a key reform measure GoS is also gearing up to adopt and implement the Medium-Term
Fiscal Restructuring Plan covering a 3 to 4-year period starting FY 2002-03 under which revenues are
increased and allocations for the social sectors of health and education, overall operations and
maintenance and development expenditures are increased (See Table 1, page 8).
29.    The focus of the rolling medium-term budgeting and planning program will be to channelize
higher provincial revenues, projected to increase by 15% per annum, arising from the various reforms
being undertaken, higher royalties and other related incomes from new discoveries of oil and gas, and
increased donor assistance to fund activities in poverty reduction areas. Additional fiscal space is
expected to be created from revisions in the expenditure mix, from the reduction of debt servicing
commitments and from the contraction in other obligations like pensions and the employees GP Fund
liabilities utilized in earlier years for financing low productive programs and services. The steps and
instruments identified above will improve the equity of the taxation structure and will be supplemented by
measures involving taxpayer compliance costs, tightening of loopholes in tax collection and levying of
penalties on tax evasion, phasing out of untargeted subsidies, like the subsidy on wheat, strengthening
user charges and improved cost recovery mechanisms in respect of non-merit goods and services,
examining the potential for outsourcing collections and strengthening the autonomy, efficiency and
administrative capability of the revenue generating departments through, among other measures, the
establishment of a separate revenue authority, while taking complementary steps to improve the grievance
redressal procedures.
30.    The key expenditure measures programmed for implementation over the medium-term will
include: a) A perceptible enhancement in the allocations for the non-salary and operations and
maintenance components of the recurrent budget in the social sectors, drinking water and rural
infrastructure and for the development budget, which will include provisions for direct poverty reduction
interventions like public works programs (such as the Khushal Pakistan program) and extension of micro-
finance through established institutions; b) A significant reduction in debt servicing costs due to
accelerated debt retirement and, possibly, through a downward revision in interest rates on the existing
stock of debt; c) A phased capitalization of pension fund; d) A re-capitalization of the employees General
Provident (GP) Fund by placing net receipts under the head of GP Fund in a dedicated Fund and by
transferring Rs. 100 mnillion per month over the next 3 to 4 years to this specifically constituted
GP/Pension Fund; and e) Provisions of Rs. 3 billion for each of the years FY 04 and FY 05 to finance
severance packages for roughly 5% low skilled employees who may opt to avail it. These would be made
available only when appropriate arrangements are in place to prevent re-hiring.
7



ftoma: Off: 9212095
MDMNISTR FOR FINANCZ
PLANNING & DEVE:LONNT
DEPARTMENT
GOVERNMENT OF SINDB
Klueh1, dated b      22nd  Maya"2.
Dr. Abdul 1{afeez S&aikb
Table 1: Summary Fiscal Accounts of the Government of Sindh
(Rs Million)
1997/00 2000/01   2001/02              Proections
Actual  Actual P. Estimate 2002/03 2003/04 2004/05   2005/06
Total Revenues and Grants        55,416  61,576      72,859  81,870  89,831  100,115  111,958
Federal Transfers              35,921   40,479     47,599  50,519  55,810   62,807   70,954
Provincial Revenues            12,794   15,621     18,043  23,800  26,015   28,802   31,947
Tax Revenues                   5,335   7,147       8,163  9,512  10,913   12,543    14,376
Non-Tax Revenues               7,459   8,474       9,880  14,288  15,103  16,260    17,571
o/w Abiana                    576      633        631     788    906     1,042     1,251
Federal grants                  6,700   5,476       7,217  7,551   8,006    8,506     9,057
of which KPP grants i/                   949       3,080  3,000   3,000    3,000     3,000
OZT grants            6,700    4,528      4,137   4,551   5,006    5,506    6,057
Total Expenditures               55,000  59,559      73,892  85,703  95,462  105,530  112,614
Current Expenditures             51,055  54,153      64,830  70,767  74,046  83,725    92,545
Wages2                         22,006   23,327     30,568  36,210  38,133   39,953   41,855
Pension                         3,452    3,970      4,600   5,250   5,898    6,644    7,565
Operations and Maintenance      4,669    5,676      6,896   8,737   8,833   13,160   17,704
Interest Payments              11,595   10,440     11,409  12,015  12,377   12,490   12,611
Subsidies                        399     3,729      4,692    999'    692      496       353
Grants to LG and Investments      8,934   7,010       6,665  7,556   8,113   10,982    12,457
Development Expenditures & Inve  3,945    5,407       9,062  14,937  18,416  18,806   20,069
Annual Development Program        2,178   2,685       3,800  4,560   5,472    6,566     8,208
Rehabilitation                                                1,500  1,800    2,100     2,400
Foreign Project Assistance        1,178   1,519       1,500  3,577   5,844    6,140     6,461
Investment into Pension/G.P. Fund                             1,000  1,000    1,000        0
Federal Projecst Incl. DERA & ESR  589      365        600    1,300  1,300
Civil Works from KPP Grants          0      838       3,162  3,000   3,000    3,000     3,000
Payment for Severance Package                                        3,000    3,000
Fiscal Balance                     416    2,016      -1,033  -3,833  -5,630   -5,415    -656
Public Savings                    4,361   7,423       8,029  11,104  15,786   16,391   19,413
Primary Fiscal Balance           12,010  12,457      10,375   8,182  6,747    7,075    11,955
Total Expenditures incl. Severance  55,000  59,559   73,892  85,703  98,462  108,530  112,614
Net Financing                     -416   -2,016      -1,033  3,833   5,630    5,415      656
Memorandum Item   3/
Provident Fund (net)              2103     2172       2389
Receipts                         3742    3348        3683   3867    4060     4263      4476
Payments                         1639    1176        1294    1423   1565      1722     1894
Changes in stock of payment arrears       -5519       -6608
Total Cash Balances               -667    5,441       6,401
Projected IDA Adjustment Financinp                            6,250  6,438    6,631
"' Starting FY03, these grants may be discontinued by instituting other revenue transfers.
2/ Wages for FY 04 through FY 06 include adjustment for savings from separation
31 Provident Fund Net Receipts are reinvested and not used for budget financing.
Source: Department of Finance, GoS and Bank Staff Estimates
8



Phaog: Off: 9212095
9211340
MINISTER FOR FINANCE
Pl,ANNING & DEVELOPMF1T
DEPARTMENT
GOVERNMENT OF SINDH
Keachi, dated    B 22nd May
Dr. Abdul l{afeez Shaikh
31.    Although budgetary allocations for salaries and allowances will rise sharply as a result of the 50%
wage increase announced by the Federal Government, the absorption of establishment charges will be
contained thereafter. The share of development expenditures will increase by 25% per annum, although
only 25% of the allocations for development expenditures will be earmarked for new projects or those
that can be completed within the financial year. Similarly, allocations for operations and maintenance will
double by FY 06, while the share of subsidies will decline from around 5.3% of expenditures in FY 01 to
below 1% in FY 06.
Financial Management
32.   The public accounts in Sindh were poorly maintained with huge un-reconciled differences between
departmental accounts and those prepared by the Accountant General's Office and transactions reported
by the banking system.
33.  Accountability also suffered in the absence of the Public Accounts Committee for almost 16 years
until its establishment in 2001. Poorly functioning financial monitoring and reporting systems
compromised the quality of financial management and led to the accumulation of arrears. These
weaknesses combined with complicated budgetary release procedures that thwarted timely disbursement
of funds to service delivery sites meant continued failure to improve the quality of key social services.
34.    Conscious of the need to improve financial discipline, the efficiency and effectiveness of
government expenditures and the degree of transparency and accountability to overcome the weaknesses
in financial management, the GoS has initiated reforms to strengthen the reliability and accuracy of the
provincial accounts and the reporting and accountability systems. These reforms are essentially grounded
on the financial management reforms being championed by the Federal Government.
Actions Taken
35.    The reform agenda seeks timely reconciliation of departmental accounts with the figures reported
in the Civil Accounts. The provincial Fiscal Monitoring Committee set up in early 2001 had, by
September 2001, to produce comprehensive, credible, accurate and transparent quarterly accounts. As a
result reconciliation of the accounts for FY 2001 was completed 100% by September 2001 compared to
6% reconciliation in the previous year. For the first two quarters of the current financial year a 97%
reconciliation was achieved. These efforts have been reinforced by the adoption of tighter budgetary
controls and through expenditure prioritization concentrating, among other measures, on the completion
of high priority programs and abandoning of low priority schemes, enhancement of allocations for non
salary inputs in the key sectors of education, health and roads to improve the functional effectiveness of
the service providers and the installed infrastructure.
36.    The Committee has also streamlined the procedures for the timely release of funds so as to ensure
implementation of budgetary targets in respect of development and high-priority non-wage social sector
recurrent expenditures. In the interest of transparency the quarterly fiscal accounts are also being made
9



Phlam  Off: 9212S
92113X0
KMJNSFE   FOR FiANM2
PLANNING & DEV"LOIgM
D DEPARThSM
GOVERNMRJ OF SMo
Dr. Abdul ffafeez Sakha2d
public, the results being reported on the Website of the GoS (www.deptfinancesindh.gov.pk ) In the
future such reports will provide extensive details on Government revenue collections, public expenditures
by sectors and by economic classification.
37.   In order to enforce financial discipline and enhance accountability GoS established an
independent and effective ad-hoc Public Accounts Committee (PAC) after an inordinate gap of a decade
and a half. Comprising retired bureaucrats and civil society representatives with professional expertise
known for their integrity, it is clearing the backlog of audit reports. The PAC has reviewed the FY 1993
and FY 1999 reports of the Auditor General and nearing completion of this task for FY 2000. To enhance
transparency, the proceedings of the PAC have been opened up to the press with effect from the first
week of June FY02.
38. The GoS has embarked upon Financial Management Reform Program, which includes establishment
of the office of a Provincial Financial Controller for guiding the implementation of the Financial
management reformns and towards this end the provincial government has already decided to appoint the
Provincial Financial Controller by end July 2002.
39.  To settle its arrears and exercise better control in the future, the GoS has established an institutional
arrangement for regular reconciliation of WAPDA and KESC bills for electricity with the records of the
individual consuming department. The GoS is intent on metering remaining sites and installing a system
under which defaulting public agencies will be disconnected.
Medium-Term Action Plan
40.   In the medium-termn financial management, reliability of financial information and transparency
objectives will be realized through improvements in the presentation of the budget documents and fiscal
information disclosures, enunciation of relevant rules for ensuring the timely presentation of audit reports
to the PAC, adoption of the budgetary classification of the new Chart of Accounts being developed at the
Federal level for compilation of accounts under the New Accounting Model (NAM), which will enable
the tracking of expenditures at the lowest tier of government, revision of financial rules to ensure their
consistency with the new accounting framework and streamline.procedures for releasing funds to sub-
district tiers of government.
41. Over the medium-term the GoS will also, under the Financial Management Reform Program: a)
Carry out a comrprehensive exercise to determine the actual and contingent liabilities of the provincial
govemment; b) Appoint a Provincial Controller of Accounts for guiding the implementation of the
Financial Management reforms; c) Strengthen the capability of the offices of the District Accounts
Officers (DAO) and the Executive District Officer (EDO) Finance through computerization and training
of the staff, with the objective to complete the exercise in all districts by FY 05. These efforts will ensure
the accuracy of the accounts and enable the streamlining of the accounting functions of the district
govemments. d) Launch a concerted effort to audit PLAs, reconcile the balances in Public Fund Account
and develop a system for recording liabilities arising from transactions conducted during the financial
year. e) Publish the financial statements of key public sector enterprises getting financial assistance from
the provincial government and distribute them with the budget documents. f) Ensure the continuity of the
PAC and frequency of its meetings through appropriate amendments in the rules; g) revise the
10



ftoum: Off: 9212095
9211340
MMINSTE FOR IlNANCE
PLANNING & DEVEOPMERT
DEXPARTMEA
GOVERNMENT OF SIH
Kmvschl,    _ 22nd May
ljwbl, defted *   Z   9
Dr. Abdul l{feez Shaikh
procurement rules, manuals and codes to consolidate and simplify processes, and ensure transparency.
The GoS also intends to enact a Procurement law in FY 04 for legislating the fundamental principles of
good public procurement practices to promote economy, efficiency and transparency.
Civil Service Reforms
42.  Improvements in service delivery and the efficacy of public expenditures can only be achieved
through better performance of public employees, which has suffered on account of rapid expansion in
numbers with little done to upgrade its quality. Non-merit recruitments, frequent transfers, poor
enforcement of accountability mechanisms and inadequate efforts to strengthen their capabilities
adversely affected their capacity to fulfill their mandates. The composition of the civil service, with 43%
of its membership comprising those in grades I to 5, most of whom are functionally illiterate, ill-suited to
the changing skill requirements of a domestic market being forced to adjust to a more competitive
international environment. The urgently needed task to rationalize, re-deploy and train existing staff and
to undertake critical pay reforms is impeded by the lack of data on the size, educational attainments and
geographical and functional deployment of the 459,000 employees.
Actions Taken
43.   To ensure merit-based appointment in future the GoS has strengthened the independence of the
Commission members appointed to the Sindh Public Service Commission (SPSC) through legislation.
The SPSC will undertake all future recruitments in grades 11 and above.
44.   To check absenteeism supervision procedures have been strengthened. In the key social sector of
education civil society participation is being proposed as an instrument for enhancing the accountability
of service providers to service recipients. Not only have School Management Committees been
empowered to report on absenteeism and recommend the transfers or dismissals of recalcitrant and
offending teachers, future recruitment of teachers will now be on contract and on institution specific
basis.
45.   Instruments like the Good Governance Committee and the Review Committee have been set up.
Existing statutes and rules have been harnessed to initiate a variety of actions against 600 senior officials.
Powers to enforce discipline have been strengthened under a new Ordinance and related procedures are
being streamlined.
46.    The number of provincial departments has been rationalized from  28 to 23 on the
recommendations of 3 sub-committees set up for- functional restructuring provincial government
departments. Several departments or public sector enterprises have been identified for re-organizing,
disbanding, merger or privatization and overlapping responsibilities between city-based development
authorities and mandates of district governments are being removed.
47.    About 270,000 personnel have been transferred to the local govermments, in excess of 12,500
vacant sanctioned posts have been abolished and recruitments below grade 14 have been discontinued.



Paseu: Off 9212095
ANISNeR I    OR FDVE ANCI
. ;4                                    ~~~~~~~~PI,NNING & DEVELOp~q
DEPARTMEI
GOVYRRNMENT OF SIND
22bd MaY 2
Dr. Abdul Hafeez Sitkb
The freeze on recruitment is being continued with specified exceptions for priority activities, essentially
to operationalize social service facilities.
48.    Transfers of senior provincial government officers are being reduced and the average tenure has
increased to 15 months from less than 12 months earlier. The data on deployment of senior personnel, in
terms of period of tenure in each post, is also being reported on the website of the (GoS-
www.sindh.gov.pk).
Medium-Term Action Plan
49.    An initial head count of civil servants is nearing completion. A computerized database to result
from this effort will be reconciled with the payroll records to identify and remove ghost employees,
facilitate the implementation of a strategy for monitoring and managing pension expenditures and enable
better planning and deployment and human resource development of staff based on information on skill
composition.
50.    The regular updates to the database will be based on an initial comprehensive civil service census
and the procedural and institutional mechanisms to incorporate in this data base contractual employees,
new appointments, promotions and terminations and arrangements for periodic reconciliation with the
payroll records will be designed and implemented during FY 03. The exercise will aim to create an
accurate, regularly updated, database of employee skills within the public sector and rationalize
classification of employees. Towards this end efforts would be made to rationalize the size of the
government especially at grade 11 and below through severance packages for which specific allocation
would be made as well. Efficiency gains will be realized through the elimination of unnecessary tasks and
by closely aligning functions, resources and responsibilities.
51.    To reduce the scope for litigation service rules and statutes are being modified to institutionalize
and grant requisite sanction to contractual appointments. Other legal reforms will also be undertaken to
bring all such appointments within the purview of the SPSC. The autonomy of the SPSC will be
deepened, to provide it with further administrative autonomy, as to reduce the scope for challenging
SPSC decisions.
Education
52.    With gross enrollment rates at the primary level of 65%, but high dropout rates access to
schooling continues to be poor partly because of poverty and partly because around 13,500 (35%) schools
are shelter-less and around 50% schools lack basic facilities like boundary walls, toilets, electricity etc.)
and 5,650 were closed owing to lack of teachers or financing. The quality of service delivery has suffered
because of rampant absenteeism due to weak accountability systems, inadequately trained teachers, poor
provision of consumables to schools and weak supervision of service delivery. The GoS has set itself an
objective to ensure that 70% children in Sindh complete the primary education cycle by 2010 and that net
enrollment is 80% by 2005. To this end it has launched a comprehensive plan aimed at provision of
adequate resources, strengthening of accountability systems, greater community involvement in the
provision of schooling and promotion of private sector role in education.
12



ftoum: Off, 9212095
921130
MINSTER FOR FINANCE
PLANNING & DEVEWPMENT
DEPARTMENT
CGOVERNMENT OF SINDH
mh4, died        22nd May    9
Dr. Abdul lafeez Shaikh
Actions Taken
53.    A memorandum of understanding has been signed with the Federal Government to enable GoS to
access additional funds to achieve the goals of the National Education Sector Reform Strategy, which has
been distributed, to the district governments.
54.    To increase school enrollment, improve gender disparities and access of vulnerable groups to
education several initiatives have been launched, e.g. enrollment drives, implementation of the legislation
relating to compulsory education in 16 talukas, future hiring of female teachers only for primary classes,
incentive schemes like 23,000 scholarships for both girls and boys residing in rural and urban areas
(Rs.36.4 million allocated for FY 2002), free distribution of textbooks to 1.3 million children (Rs.165
million set aside for FY 2002) and experimentation with a Food Support Program in 21,000 schools.
55.    Arounrd 3,800 of the hitherto closed have been operationalized on need/viability basis through a
combination of redeployment (of around 5,500 teachers) and fresh recruitment of 3000 teachers. These
initiatives have bome fruit and in FY 2002 enrollment increased by 5% over FY 2001.
56.    To improve teacher accountability and performance around 2,400 ghost or illegally appointed
teachers have been removed from service, while 164 officials were subjected to major or minor penalties
57.    To improve quality of schooling and accountability of teachers to service users, school
management committees have been functionalized (of which 14,000 have already been trained in these
matters) with strong institutionalized involvement of elected local representatives and parents in merit
based teacher recruitment (identified on the basis of competency tests administered by an independent
third party), monitoring of teacher presence (and requesting the education department for disciplinary
action against offending teachers), the utilization of the school budgets in respect of non-salary inputs
(totaling Rs.1.3 billion released to SMCs), recruitment of teachers on contract and facility specific basis
and testing of teacher competence with the objective to strengthen it through training.
58.    An intensive program for training 20,000 teachers in content and pedagogy has been launched in
partnership with the IED and NGOs are being inducted to monitor this training program.
59.    The GoS is undertaking regular school supervision visits and making preparations initiate an
annual third party validation exercise from FY 03 to assess the quality of service delivery at the local
level.
60.    To create an enabling environment for private sector participation in education and thereby
improve the quality of schooling the GoS is de-nationalizing educational institutions (with 165 having
already been denationalized), leasing school buildings to the private or inviting civil society, through an
Adopt a School Program and Community Supported Schools to take over management of government
schools, and deregulating printing of text-books.
13



nhau: Of: 9212095
9211340
KIIM S      0E R NANCE
PLANNING & DEYELOP1       Em
DEPARTMENT
GOVERNMENT OF SINDN
Karachi dated     22nd May302,
Dr. Abdul I{ateez Shaikh
Medium-Term Action Plan
61.    The medium-term reform plan will focus on an extensive public awareness campaign on the
government's educational sector initiatives, on annual and half-yearly enrollment drives in the remaining
talukas based on the compulsory education plan so that number of out-of-school children can be reduced
from 2.2 million to 1.1 million by 2005, establishing and training SMCs in all schools and on modifying
and expanding these initiatives on the basis of lessons learned and build on the successes achieved, on
introducing a technical stream at secondary level education and on periodically conducting independent
third party assessments on student learning outcomes.
62.    The possibility of providing grants to private schools providing decent quality education in low-
income households will also be evaluated. GoS plans to provide buildings to 3,100 shelterless schools
between FYs 2002 and 2005, and construct 8,250 additional classrooms for primary and elementary
schools, upgrade 1,600 primary schools and provide toilets and drinking water facilities in 4,100 schools
and complete training of untrained 12,000 teachers over the same period.
63.    Other medium-term reform measures will include: a) Testing of teachers for competency who
will then undergo remedial training and re-certification being developed in partnership with [ED; b)
Certification of candidates for teaching positions by a Teacher Certification Board. District Governments
will henceforth be required to hire teachers below grade 11 from this list for appointments in schools that
they manage; c) Empowering SMCs to have a role in hiring and firing of teachers, under the watchful of
the respective local government; and d) Annual third party validation surveys on teacher presence,
effectiveness of incentive programs like free distribution of text books, scholarships for girls, availability
of supplies, etc.
Health
64.    Sindh has a poor set of health indicators. Until the reforms initiated by this government a strategy
had been missing on ways to overcome the debilitating impact of preventable and communicable
diseases. At the same time, accountability mechanisms in respect of service providers and institutional
arrangements for ensuring continuity of key personnel on appointed positions were weak.
Actions Taken
65.    After adopting the National Health Policy 2001, GoS set itself clearly defined targets. On the
basis of third party assessments, the coverage of the immunization program of children between the ages
of I and 2 and of pregnant women has increased from 38% and 48% respectively in 1998 to 48% at the
end of 2001. Confirmed polio cases have been reduced from 65 in 2000 to 23 in 2001, the Infant
Mortality Rate from 125 to 90, the Fertility Rate from 6 to 5, while contraceptive prevalence has been
raised from 8% to 17% and that of deliveries through trained personnel from 18% to 28%. LHW coverage
has increased from 33% to 43% and the female health staff in PHCs has touched 65%. The program for
hepatitis B vaccination has been initiated in two districts, while the DOTS program has been launched in
5 districts. Resultantly, coverage of DOTS has risen from 8% to 31% in just one year and the program has
been extended to 8 districts and being extended to 10 districts.
14



ftosm: o0f 92fl095
921340
MINISTERt FOR FINANCE
PrANNING & DEVEWPMDRT
GOE DEPARTMENT
GCOVRNMENT OF SENDB
lAel a8bd         22nd May
Dr. Abdul Hafeez Shakh
66.    A transparent policy for transfers and promotions has been implemented to address rurallurban
imbalances of staff. Vacant sanctioned posts of female paramedic staff have been filled through the
relaxation of the recruitment ban. The efforts of the GoS to ensure staff attendance, with the assistance of
army monitoring teams, have bome fruit. Moreover, the services of more than 350 doctors have been
terminated and around 1,500 have also been penalized with minor punishments. The School Health
Service has been abolished and the doctors are being posted to rural areas. New managerial structures are
being installed at the provincial and district levels and a medium-term plan for improving the mobility of
key paramedic staff, e.g. vaccinators, strengthening the capability of district health planning and financial
management structures and information collation systems has been finalized. A set of 15 indicators has
been developed to measure performance and regular monitoring and reporting procedures are being
institutionalized.
Medium-Term Action Plan
67.    The medium-term plan of the GoS is to increase the immunization coverage of children and
pregnant women to 80% by 2005, expand province-wide coverage of TB DOTS by 2003 to detect 70% of
all cases and treat 85% successfully, reduce TB deaths by 50% by 2010, extend coverage of Hepatitis-B
vaccination, eradicate polio and neonatal tetanus by 2005, improve access to EPI services, build capacity
of LHWs and other staff to provide immunization services and strengthen the capability of local
government functionaries to implement plans by conducting in-service training programs for district
managers in planning and financial management.
68.    For FY 2003 the allocations for non-salary components will be increased by 25% to eventually
raise the non-salary budget for primary health care to 30% by 2005 form the present share of 20%.
69.    Third party household and facility surveys on staff presence, availability of medicines and other
supplies, etc. is also being institutionalized, while private sector and NGO participation is being sought in
the management of non-functional recently constructed 400 basic health facilities.
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
70.    The GoS continues to pursue a strategy to involve communities in the design and implementation
of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) schemes and in contributing towards the cost of
construction. Furthermore, the RWSS schemes are being handed over to the Taluka governments for
operations. Talukas will be provided adequate funds on a timely basis for the rehabilitation and
maintenance of rural water supply and sanitation facilities completed recently on the basis of community
participation. To finance these initiatives adequately, the GoS is also planning to increase the funding for
such schemes several fold.
15



fhtoa: Off: 9212095
M1NISTER FOR FINANCE
PLANNING & DEVELOPMET
DEPARTMENT
GOVERNMENT OF SINDH
~~ dakd .&    22nd Hay    2.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lwb1, dat                             xp   L     3
Dr. Abdul Hafeez Shaikb
Governance Reforms and Civil Society Participation
71.    Several initiatives taken to improve systems of governance include decentralization of
administrative and financial powers and the reorientation of the regulatory structures, processes and
procedures that influence the operations of the private sector operating within the provincial boundary.
The sustainable achievement of the reform agenda will require progress in areas pertaining to civil service
reform and further market deregulation and liberalization. To accomplish these goals the GoS is
determined in its quest to (a) make the functioning of government simpler, less cumbersome and
accountable and responsive to the genuine needs of people; and (b) transform the role of government such
that it should not become an impediment to private initiative.
72.    Moreover, recognizing the participation of civil society as critical to poverty reduction efforts the
GoS is also increasing the social capital by promoting the activities of NGOs and self-help groups in the
provision of social services, either directly or in partnership with the GoS, or in the monitoring and
supervision of the delivery of social services by the public sector.
Promotion of Private Sector
73.    The govemment's mission is to become a prudent facilitator of private pursuits through
privatization and further deregulation. The GoS plans the restructuring, closure, liquidation and
privatization of many enterprises and parastatals. Some are making losses and are being bankrolled from
the provincial budget, some are inefficient producers of goods and services, some are providing goods
and services that the private sector could provide more competitively and some need to be restructured
and reorganized to make their operations more efficient.
Actions Taken
74.    To improve the climate for investment and promote private sector development the GoS is
reforming its regulatory framework that provides government functionaries with opportunities for
extracting rent, which raise the private sector's cost of doing business. As major steps, it has
fundamentally modified the scope and frequency of rules relating to factory inspections, reducing them
from 23 to 7 for factories (and to 4 for retail outlets). It has also decided to reorient the role of government
to eliminate intervention in productive activities and reduce the fiscal drain of PEs and has identified
several assets including 2 sugar mills, agricultural farms, and real estate for privatization in the short to
medium term.
75.    A Provincial Committee on Investment, Information Technology Board, Economic Development
Council (EDC) and the Sindh Privatization Commission with heavy private sector representation and
headed by leading private sector persons have been activated and they are actively engaged in devising
policy and procedural reforms for stimulating private investment in the province.
76.    The Privatization Commission has adequate funding and autonomy and has started recruiting
consulting consultants with requisite expertise to carry out specific transactions and develop an inventory
of potential GoS owned assets and parastatals for privatization. The first round of bids have been received
16



ftome: Off: 9210i5
9211340
MINSERFOR FINANClN
PlANNING & DEVELOPbM
GOVFDEFARTENT
EOVRRN N       OF SID
K         dated  - 22nd 1ay
Dr. Abdul Iafcez Shaikh
in April for privatization of the trauma center, some real estate assets which have already been approved
by the cabinet committee.
Medium-Term Action Plan
77.  In partnership with the Federal Government a task to consolidate, rationalize, and streamline 27
labour laws and accompanying regulations, improve the flexibility of the labour market and reflect
current developments in it is well underway. The GoS plans to continue with the strengthening of
deregulation regime for investment without compromising safety, environmental and other standards.
78.    The role of civil society and the private sector is being institutionalized through representation on
the Boards of management of many public sector agencies providing utility and other services.
The Roads Sector
79.    Poor regular maintenance of the road network in Sindh, partly owing to allocations that barely
meet one-third of requirement, has caused a deterioration that has seriously impacted on the cost and
competitiveness of business operation. Around 70% of the 21,000 kilometers of roads are in urgent need
of rehabilitation.
80.    Outdated maintenance yardsticks, budgetary allocations, mechanisms that have not kept pace
with needs and lack of prioritization of the maintenance program has contributed to a huge backlog of
rehabilitation expenditures, estimated at around Rs.9 billion.
Medium-Term Action Plan
81.    To address the weaknesses identified above and to ensure the development of a meaningful and
sustainable reform program the GoS has recently signed a road sector development credit with the Asian
Development Bank, under which it plans to enhance allocations for repairs and maintenance, prepare a
suitably prioritized road rehabilitation and maintenance program based on generally accepted standards
for safeguarding and protecting the economic life of the roads, create a non-lapsable protected fund
dedicated to regular maintenance activities, administered by an Oversight Board with appropriate
stakeholder participation. Moreover, the intra-district road network of approximately 16,000 kmns. has
been transferred to the District Governments with guidelines on the nature and scope of prioritization of
the allocations for routine maintenance.
82.    The mediun-term strategy for the sector includes the development of a road master plan, a 5 year
rolling investment and maintenance program, enforcement of an axle load control program and the
revision of design standards, specifications and maintenance yardsticks.
Devolution
83.    Like other provinces Sindh is making its contribution to fiscal decentralization. The initial phase
of the fiscal decentralization plan to support the devolution program has been completed involving the
unbundling of the provincial budget into provincial and district budgets. The District Development
17



fhos: Off: 9212095
MInSR FOR FINANC
PLANNING & DEVELWOIIT
DEPAR1?hENT
GOVERNMENT OF SID
Krhlb, dated A   22nd Hay    2.
Dr. Abdul Hafeez SbAikh
Working Parties can now approve projects costing up to Rs. 20 million, while the responsibility for the
implementation of more than 700 on-going schemes and projects being executed under the Khushaal
Pakistan Program have been mandated to the District Governments. Moreover, District governments have
been given autonomy over the utilization of the recurrent non-salary allocations.
84.   In the next phase the GoS will be establishing the inter-governmental fiscal relations between the
province and the newly created lower formations of government.
85.    The Sindh Provincial Finance Commission (PFC) is being re-constituted. Its mandate will be to
formulate proposals for transparent, statutorily protected, formula-based vertical and horizontal
distribution of resources and conditional and matching grants and the revenue and expenditure
assignments of the different levels of government such that provincial and national goals pertaining to the
social sectors and poverty reduction are met through appropriately designed fiscal transfer formulas.
86.    To ensure the continuity of the reform programs and to protect non-salary expenditures in high
priority areas, appropriate allocations will be passed on to the local governments as tied grants.
87.    The adoption and implementation of the fiscal decentralization plan, including the institutional
arrangements for releasing funds to lower tiers of the local government structure and fiscal monitoring at
the district level will begin during FY 03.
Rural Development
88.      The rural development efforts in Sindh are under taken by multiple agencies like the local
govemment department and the local councils (now converted into autonomous governments), the
Agriculture and the Irrigation departments. The water supply and sanitation portfolio now stands shifted
from the provincial Public Health Engineering Department to the Taluka and Town Administrations. The
Government has tried to supplement the rehabilitation of the rural infrastructure through the small public
works program titled as the Khushal Pakistan Program with the support of the Federal Government. Since
December 2000 more than Rs. 5.5 billion have been released under this program for more than 3000
schemes mostly pertaining to farm to market roads, water supply, sanitation, lining of water channels and
rehabilitation of schools and health centers. Approximately 0.25 million people have been able to get
temporary employment under this program and it has gone a long way in reversing the deterioration of
rural infrastructure. Further the government is negotiating a Sindh Rural Development Project with the
Asian Development Bank for poverty reduction activities in the five southern districts of Sindh having
strong components of social and infrastructure development.
89. GoS is reforming agricultural extension services, liberalizing the trade and marketing of agricultural
produce and improving the irrigation system through the establishment of the Sindh Irrigation and
Drainage Authority (SIDA), which has in turn set up area water boards and local farmer organizations for
managing secondary and tertiary canals. By the end of 2003 all canals are expected to be transferred to
SIDA for operations and maintenance. The government is working on a major irrigation rehabilitation
18



fhcos Off: 9212095
9211340
MRNSER FFOR FINAt
!LANN4ING A DEYLPKERT
D EPARTMENT
GOVERNMENZT OF SIND
Karch}i,  t     _ 2_22nd May
Dr. Abdul Hateez Shaikh
program to be assisted through a special Federal government grant aimed at a more organized and
scientific water management system.
Communication Strategy
90.    Under the devolution plan the ultimate responsibility for implementing the sectoral reforms,
especially relating to social services, will lie with the District Governments. For ensuring ownership and
efficient harmonized implementation of the reforms at the local government level the GoS has started
holding intensive dissemination workshops on the reforms and the associated related executing
mechanisms with the elected representatives of the District Governments and their core functionaries.
91.    This letter, setting out the development policy of the GoS, will be posted on the web site of the
provincial government. For ensuring wider dissemination and creating greater awareness about this far-
reaching reform program this letter will also be translated into Urdu and Sindhi.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
92.   The monitoring and evaluation of the reform programme on the basis of target based outcome
indicators will be conducted by the Finance Department. Regular monitoring is also being carried out by a
committee of key focal persons from each of the departrnents undertaking reforms. A number of targets
have also been set to this end and set out in Table 2 below.
93.   The monitoring and evaluation arrangements for the GoS's reform program will extend further to
monitor the targets set in Table 2 below.. These will include (i) the quarterly fiscal monitoring report will
be produced by the Finance Department to report on fiscal implementation and the status of the accounts
reconciliation; (ii) civil service transfers and the rationalization of the civil service will be monitored by
the Services department; (iii) human development and millennium development goals data will be
provided by the monitoring cells of the relevant departments, (iv) district performance indicators, and the
results of the annual independent third party validation surveys that will be carried out will be regularly
monitored by the Departments; and (v) surveys will be used to check the implementation of regulatory
reforms.
19



fomem: Off: 9212095
9211340
MINITE FORt FNANCE
Pl,ANNING & DEVELOPMEY
DEPARThNFEN
GOVERNMENT OF SINDS
Karchi, dated*         22nd May      2.
Dr. Abdul I{afeez Shaikh
Table 2: Monitoring Indicators Under GoS Reform Program
(* = Corresponding to IPRSP Targets)
Indicators (Targets are from latest ear to FY 06)                        Institutional Arrangement for Monitoring
Growth                            3.3% to 5.2 % per cent per annum     Overall Monitoring Responsibility-
Poverty (Basic Needs)'            Urban: 19% (1998 PIHS) to 16% (FY04)  Planning and Development Department;
Rural 37% to 31% (FY04)               Source for Poverty Data: PIHS Survey every two
years
Public Finance                    15.2% annual growth of revenue
Provincial Tax Revenue Growth    AIT and irrigation charges collection  Quarterly Fiscal Monitoring Reports, Annual
growth by 20% p.a.                    Budget Statements of Department of Finance,
and Annual Budgets, produced by the
Share of education and health in  From 28% of expenditures in FY 01 to  Department of Finance
current expenditures* (functional  39% in FY 06
classification)
Quarterly Fiscal Monitoring Reports of the
Operations and Maintenance       From 9% (in FY 01) to 16% of all      Department of Finance
(economic classification)        expenditures
Development Expenditures         From 9% (FY 01) to 18% of all
(economic classification)        expenditures
Department of Finance/Accountant General's
Timely, comprehensive, reconciled  Civil Accounts Reconciliation from 80%  Office. Quarterly Fiscal Monitoring Report.
fiscal data eventually using modem  to 95%.
chart of public accounts         Identification and reconciliation of all
expenditures and public accounts.
Education and, Health
Gross primary enrollment rate*   From 60% to 80% (FY 05)               Annual SEMIS, Reports of the R, M, and E cell
Gross Female Primary enrollment  From 41% to 60%                       of the Education Department. PIHS
rate
Annual Independent Third Party Validation
Number of Schools Made*           88% to 100%.                         Surveys with data collected for district level.
Functional                        101,000 teachers tested and 12,000
Teacher Competency Testing and   trained.                              SEMIS
Training*
PIHS Surveys
Infant Mortality Rate            95 to 60                              Annual Reports of Immunization Directorates
12 to 23 month Immunization      49% to 80%                            Third Party District Annual Assessments.
TB Control Access                 8% to 100%
Births Attended By Trained       28% to 40%
Personnel*
Third Party Validation Surveys
Population with Access to Safe   61% to 80%.
Drinking Water*
Annual Sindh Katchi Abadi Authority Reports
Notified Katcha Abadis (Urban    80% to 90%
Slums) Regularized*
Infrastructure                                                         Annual Reports of CWD, Roads Oversight
Proportion of Roads Classified in  70% to 50%                          Body, Independent Surveys
Poor Conditions
Kilometers of All Weather Farm to  14000 km to 15200 km by FY 05
Market Roads*                                                          Annual Reports of SlDA/lrrigation Department
Rehabilitation of Irrigation      1500 Km channels by FY06
Infrastructure*
Temporary Employment* Generated  From 0.25 million to 0.4 million FY 06  Department of Local Govemment
through KPP civil works.
20



ihoaj: Of: 9212095
mULSO FO)R FENANC
PLANNING & DEVELOnINq
DEOARThIMN
GOVERNMENT OF SOM
Z ,          -, 22nd MayW2
Dr. Abdul Hafeez SM4ikh
94.    The monitoring of the implementation of the reform program will be done at two levels. An
Implementation and Monitoring unit would be established in Finance Department shortly having adequate
staffing, powers and resources for providing overall monitoring and guidance to ensure implementation.
This unit would be responsible for producing the quarterly and annual monitoring reports and
coordination of the implementation of all agreed medium-term benchmarks. Second, a civil servant
committee coordinated by the Department of Finance and consisting of senior. civil servants who are
acting as focal points for implementing reforms in the relevant agencies, has been set up to provide
regular monthly monitoring. As noted, specific monitoring systems in the Departments of Finance,
Health and Education have also been considerably strengthened as part of the reform program.
95.    The provincial government being deeply committed to the reform program outlined above plans
to enter into a Structural Adjustment Credit Agreement with the World Bank, with which it has closely
interacted in the formulation of the reform strategy, in sharpening its focus and in designing the
mechanisms, instruments and institutional arrangements for ensuring the realization of the objectives
associated with the reform program. The discussion on this credit began in November 2000, which was
followed by a continuous dialogue and a series of Missions through out 2001 and 2002. Satisfied with the
scope, content and phasing of the program the World Bank appraised it in May 2002. The credit from the
World Bank will support government of Sindh's reform program and it is expected that similar level of
support will be forth coming in following two years to assist the GoS implement the medium term reform
program.
96.    The GoS is confident of the sustainability of this structural reform program. In our view, the
prospects for continuity of these reforms is high since similar policies are being pursued nationally.
Secondly, this reform agenda is home grown and developed after a prolonged internal debate and the
reform measures are being institutionalized through legislative changes and carried forward through the
creation of new institutions, and strengthening of the existing institutions. Thirdly, by taking a number of
major steps as prior actions the present government has tried to make reversibility difficult. Fourthly
Government of Pakistan has lately made policy pronouncements followed by statutory enactments and
institutional settings on devolution and fiscal decentralization, which would greatly facilitate in protecting
the public service strengthening measures under this program. Finally, a faithful completion of a program
agreed with the World Bank will become the moral obligation of future governments.
Dr. Abdul Hafeez Shaikh
Minister of Finance
Government of Sindh
Pakistan
21



Annex C
Page I of 8
ANNEX C: POVERTY AND SOcLuL DEVELOPMENT IN SINDH'
I.      Poverty in Sindh should be understood in the broader context of poverty in Pakistan, which is
what this note will attempt, using household survey data from recent years. However, a large part of
understanding poverty in Sindh should also be to examine the concentration of poverty within the
province across regions and districts, which is limited by the nature of data on which this note is based.
This note will thus be restricted to disaggregating poverty at the regional (rural/urban) level within Sindh,
recognizing that the important task of analyzing district-level poverty and exploring variations across
districts must await the availability of survey data that is representative at the district level. Such district-
level poverty analysis will also be important to inform policymakers, by helping identify priority needs
and target groups and areas for intervention.
2.      The overall incidence of poverty in Sindh is slightly lower than that for the country as a whole
(poverty headcount for Sindh is 29%, compared to 33% for Pakistan). Disaggregating poverty between
urban and rural areas, as shown in Table 1, rural poverty in Sindh is found to be slightly higher than that
for the entire country (poverty headcount for rural Sindh and rural Pakistan are 37%, and 36%
respectively), and urban poverty lower than that for the country (urban headcount for Sindh is 19%,
compared to 24% for Pakistan).2 Other measures of poverty, namely poverty gap that estimates the depth
of poverty, and squared poverty gap that measures the severity of poverty, tell a similar story on how
poverty in Sindh compares with that of the country as a whole - depth and severity of rural poverty are
'relatively higher, while those of urban poverty relatively lower in Sindh. Also, consumption levels,
measured by average per-capita consumption expenditure are consistent with the poverty estimates for
Sindh, vis-a-vis the rest of the country. Inequality in Sindh, as measured by the gini coefficient for per
equivalent adult consumption, is very close to the country averages, for rural and urban areas alike.
Table 1: Mean Consumptlon, Inequallt and Povert: 1998/99
L_________________________________  Urban     Rural         Overall
1. Mean per-capita monthly consumption (current Rs)
AllPakistan                          1193           819           924
Sindh                             1202           794            971
2. Inequality (Consunption Gini3)
All Pakistan                         0.35           0.25          0.31
Sindh                             0.33           0.24           0.30
2. Poverty Headcount (%)
All Pakistan                         24.2           36.0          32.7
Sindh                              19            37.1           29.2
3. Poverty Gap
All Pakistan                         5.0            7.9            7.0
Sindh                              3.7            8.4           6.3
4. Severity of poverty (squared poverty gap)
All Pakistan                         1.5            2.5            2.2
Sindh                              1.0            2.8           2.0
'The source for all data, unless otherwise specified, is Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (1998/99). The GoS has officially
contested the findings and methodology of the survey as underestimating poverty in Sindh. Accordingly, the Letter of
Development Policy also uses other poverty data.
2 Poverty is estimated using a poverty line set at the inflation adjusted cost of achieving a minimum bundle of basic needs,
including food, fuel, housing and clothing (for details, see Interim Poverty Assessment Report for Pakistan, 2002).
3Gini coefficient for per equivalent adult consumnption expenditure (equivalence scale: I child = 0.8 adult).



Annex C
Page 2 of 8
3.     The picture of consumption/income poverty in Sindh is thus similar to that of Pakistan as a whole
- higher concentration of the poor in rural areas, lower average consumption levels in rural areas, and
relatively higher inequality in urban areas. What sets Sindh somewhat apart is the fact that rural-urban
gap in poverty incidence, depth and severity, which is considerable for the country as a whole, is even
wider for Sindh. In fact, as Table 2 shows, the 18 percentage point rural-urban gap in poverty incidence
for Sindh in 1998-99 happened to be the highest among all provinces. While 57% of Sindh's population
live in rural areas, these areas account for 72% of the total number of poor people of Sindh. Moreover,
comparing with estimates from 1990-91, it appears that the rural-urban gap has expanded for Sindh, as it
has done for the country as a whole (Table 2).
4.     Table 2 shows how poverty           Table 2: Incidence of Poverty by Province and Region
in Sindh has changed over the                       (1998-99)             (1990_91) 4
decade. From 1990-91 to 1998-99,                Urban   Rural  Overall  Urban  Rural  Overall
urban poverty in Sindh declined Punjab           26.5   34.7    32.4    29.4    38.5    35.9
substantially  (by  5  percentage  indh          19.0   37.1    29.2    24.1   30.8     27.6
points) - even more than the decline
in national urban poverty (by less    P          31.2   46.5    44.3    37.0   40.6     40.0
than    4    percentage   points). Balochistan   28.4   24.0    24.6    26.7    20.9    22.0
Meanwhile, incidence of poverty in  ad I & K     14.5   15.7    15.6
rural  Sindh   increased  by   6  Northern Areas  22.6  37.9    36.5
percentage points over the same   FATA             .    44.5    44.5
period,  although  rural  poverty  National      24.2   36.0    32.7    28.0    36.9    34.0
headcount. for the country actually
fell slightly over the same period.
The rise in rural poverty in Sindh over the decade was actually the highest among all provinces. Unlike
Punjab, the other highly populated province, where rural and urban poverty alike have shown modest
declines over the decade, poverty reduction in the 1 990s in Sindh appears to have occurred only in urban
areas while rural areas have become poorer on the average.
5.     A number of possible factors, including uneven agricultural performance, have been considered
as responsible for poverty stagnating in rural Pakistan in the 1990s. In the context of Sindh, where rural
poverty has actually worsened over this period, identifying the factors responsible would require closely
examining the role played by agriculture, including the impact of shocks like recent droughts on
agriculture and the associated rural economy.
Characteristics of the Poor
6.     While looking at incidence of consumption poverty is useful, understanding the nature of poverty
in Sindh requires examining the characteristics of poor households, in urban and rural areas alike.
Although the correlations between various factors and consumption poverty discussed here will not be
enough to establish a causal relationship, they will help address the question of who the poor are, as well
as provide rough indications about
asy prohdey are pough indcaton  abut   Table 3: Average Household Size for Poor and Non-poor (1998-99)
why they are poor.                                  Urban           Rural           Overall
7.     Firstly, the poor are more               Pakistan  Sin&  Pakistan  Sindh  Paistan  Sindh
likely to live in larger households:  Poor       10.3    11.3     9.7     10.0    9.8     10.4
while the average size of a poor
household in Sindh is 10.4, that of a  Non-poor   7.7     7.6     7.9     7.9     7.8     7.7
non-poor household is 7.7 (Table 3).  Overall     8.3     8.3     8.6     8.7     8.5     8.5
Source for 1990-91 figures: Pakistan Poverty Assessment (1995)



Annex C
Page 3 of 8
Moreover, poverty incidence is found to increase rapidly as household size increases: from a headcount
rate of less than 8% for households of size 5 and below, to 37% for those of size 8 to 10, and 45% for
those of size 11 and above.5 While this is expected, one interesting fact emerges: although the average
household size for Sindh is almost identical to that of the country average, in urban and rural areas alike,
the average size of poor households in Sindh is larger than that of poor households.in the rest of the
country.
8.      Poverty is expected to be strongly associated       Table 4: Average Land Owned (Hectares) Per
with lack of asset ownership, an important component         Household for Poor and Non-poor (1998-99)
of which is agricultural land in rural areas.    The                       Rural             Overall
average size of agricultural land owned by poor                        Al       Sindh      All
households is 0.6 hectares in rural Sindh, compared to               Pakistan            Pakistan  Sindh
2.8 hectares for the non-poor (Table 4).      Poverty   Poor           0.4       0.6       0.4      0.5
headcount falls as the size of land holdings increase,
from 43%   among landless rural households to 28%       Non-poor       1.4       2.8       1.1      1.7
among those with 2 to 4 hectares, and 14%      among    Total          1.1       2.1       0.9      1.4
those with more than 4 hectares of land (Table 5).
9.      Distribution  of   agricultural      Table 5: Rural Poverty by Household Land Ownership (1998-99)
land is found to be even more skewed
in rural Sindh than for rural Palistan                   Poverty Headcount           % of Population in
as a whole -      70%    of the  rural   Landholding                                     Category
population   of   Sindh   is  landless,  Category            Rural      Rural       Rural        Rural
compared    to   61%   of   the  rural                     Pakistan     Sindh      Pakistan      Sindh
population   of Pakistan   (Table   5).  No Land Owned       40.3        42.8        61.4         70.2
Consistent with this observation, the    >0- 1 hectare       33.8        36.9        18.4         5.5
difference in average landholdings of    >I -2 hectare       29.5        28.9        5.9          4.8
the poor and non-poor households in
rural Sindh is 2.2 hectares, compared    >2-4 hectare        22.4        27.6        7.0          7.0
to I hectare for all rural areas of the  >4 hectare           12.8       14.3         7.3         12.5
country (Table 4). Among the number of factors likely to be responsible for the more skewed pattern of
land'holdings in Sindh, one could be the relatively low impact of land reforms, especially in comparison
to the other large province, Punjab. 6
10.     Poverty, as expected, is strongly associated with lack of human capital, measured by the
education and literacy status of the head of the household. Poverty headcount among those living in
households with literate heads is around 21% in Sindh, compared to 42% for households where the head
is not literate. Moreover, poverty headcount in Sindh as well as in the country as a whole declines
5 There is a caveat, however, for these correlations - the fact that the "scale factor" of the household is not taken into account,
since consumption is computed on a per equivalent adult basis. In other words, the possibility that larger households enjoy
economies of scale in consumption would mean that these may actually be less poor than the calculations here reveal. Adjusting
for this kind of bias, however, is difficult, since it will require detailed knowledge of consumption of individual household
members - not available from standard household expenditure surveys.
6 In Pakistan, major attempts at land reform occurred in 1959 and 1972. In general, these are considered to not have succeeded' in
redistribution, particularly to tenants and landless, and also appear to have been ineffective in ensuring security of tenure.
Looking across provinces, while a sizeable number landlords in Punjab were forced to award ownership rights to occupancy
tenants, deeply entrenched feudal power in Sindh has weakened implementation of past reforms (Naseem, 2001).



Annex C
Page 4 of 8
steadily with increase in the education of the head of the household (Table 6). Finally, it appears that for
Sindh and the entire country alike, poverty declines more steeply with literacy and increased levels of
education in urban areas than in rural areas. This is as expected, since returns to education are likely to be
higher in urban areas, where better opportunities to utilize the skills provided by education are likely to
exist.
11.     Occupational status of the household head is another important factor likely to be associated with
poverty (Table 7). In urban Sindh, concentration of poor is higher than average among households whose
heads are self-employed, no doubt reflecting the fact that a high proportion of such earners are engaged in
elementary occupations in the large informal sector typically found in urban areas. Poverty incidence is
lower among households headed by paid employees, who are likely to be engaged in skilled occupations
in urban areas, and almost non-existent for those headed by employers who own enterprises.
Table 6: Poverty Headcount by Literacy & Education of Household Head (1998-99)
Urban                        Rural                Overall
All Pakistan  Sindh   All Pakistan  Sindh   All Pakistan  Sindh
Non-literate               39.5       30.5       42.9       44.3       42.3       40.0
Literate                   15.4       13.7       25.1       29.1       21.3       21.0
Never attended school      38.8       30.0       43.3       44.8       42.5       40.2
Cl. 1-5 (primary)          26.8       16.7       30.7       32.6       29.6       27.7
Cl. 6-9 (mniddle)          18.7       18.1       25.8       32.4       23.3        23.7
Cl. 10-Il (matric)         13.0       14.0       20.0       21.9        16.8       16.1
Cl. 12 (intermediate)    . 8.2        10.3       17.6       19.1       12.1        13.5
College & above            4.5        7.5         6.5        9.4        5.3        8.1
Table 7: Poverty Headcount by Occupation of Household Head (1998-99)
Urban                         Rural                  Overall
Occupation Categories
All Pakistan  Sindh   All Pakistan   Sindh     All Pakistan  Sindh
Not working                22.6       16.6       33.9        33.5         30.3       24.5
Employer                   4.0        2.1        31.5         7.5         14.9       2.8
Own account                26.9       22.3        41.3        36.2        36.1       29.0
worker/self-employed
Unpaid family worker       23.9         .        34.1         59.8        33.5       54.3
Paid employee              25.3       20.0       39.6         33.6        34.0       25.8
Owner Cultivator with                            31.6         40.0
less than 2 hec. land
Owner Cultivator with 2-                         20.7         22.7
4 hec. land.                                     20727
Owner Cultivator with                            13.5         12.0
greater than 4 hec. land                .           .           .          .
Sharecropper/Contract                            40.7         49.6
Cultivator        _                     .          .7          .           .



Annex C
Page 5 of 8
12.    In rural Sindh, the concentration of poor is the highest among households where the head is an
unpaid family worker, sharecropper, or owner-cultivator owning less than 2 hectares of land (poverty
headcounts of 60%, 50% and 40% respectively). Poverty incidence among households headed by owner
cultivators declines rapidly as land ownership increases; as in urban areas, the lowest incidence of poverty
is among households headed by employers who own enterprises. On thing to note is that households
headed by paid employees have a higher incidence of poverty in rural areas than in urban areas, mainly
because in rural areas, a large proportion of employees in this category are agricultural wage workers.
13.     Comparing rural Sindh with the rest of rural Pakistan, it turns out that incidence of poverty is
higher among sharecroppers and unpaid family workers (who are most likely to be found in small, family-
run farms or non-farm enterprises) and lower among large landowning cultivators and employers owning
enterprises in rural Sindh than in the average for rural Pakistan. The relatively large gap in Sindh in
poverty incidence between large cultivators on the one hand and small farmers and the landless on the
other, along with the more skewed land distribution in Sindh compared to the country as a whole, suggest
the important role of unequal ownership of assets in determining rural poverty in Sindh, which happens to
be among the highest in the country (second only to NWFP).
Table 8: Access to Amenities, Including Sanitation, Drinking Water, Electricity, etc. (1998/99)
(% of Population with Access in Each Case)
Closed/Piped        Toilet     Connected to   Connected to   Connec-
Source for Drinking  Facility In  Any Drainage    Elec     ted to    Gas
Water7         Household       System8      Electriciy   ted to Gas
Sindh
Poor                    69.5             48.1           32.5          48.4         20.4
Non-poor                78.2             75.3           54.9          66.4         43.8
Rural                   64.8             43.8           14.2          41.0         4.3
Urban                   89.9             98.0           92.6          87.5         79.5
Overall                 75.7             67.3           48.3          61.2         36.9
AlM Pakistan
Rural                   74.1             39.0           30.7          63.3          3.0
Urban                   94.2             94.2           89.1          92.4         60.3
Overall                 79.8             54.5           47.1          71.5         19.1
14.     The poor in Sindh also suffer from lack of connectivity to a number of services, which has direct
implications for their human development. As Table 8 portrays, the poor in Sindh have relatively low
access to safe drinking water and sanitation facilities: they are less likely to use closed sources of drinking
water, have toilets in the household, and be connected to a drainage system. As expected, the poor are
also less likely to be connected to electricity and gas facilities. Availability of all these amenities is also
characterized by large rural-urban gaps. While availability is limited in rural areas for the whole of
Pakistan, rural areas of Sindh mostly fare worse than that of the country as a whole (Table 8). For
example, while 31% of the population of rural Pakistan is connected to drainage systems, the same is true
for only 14% of the population of rural Sindh. This has the implication, given that rural poverty in Sindh
7 Includes piped water, and outside, closed water sources. These sources of drinking water are potentially safer than the
altemative: "outside, open" source. However, access to potentially safer sources does not guarantee safety of the drinking water
from these sources. The proportion of population with using piped/outside open sources is thus merely indicative of the
proportion of the population with access to safe drinking water.
Includes underground, as well as open drain systems.



Annex C
Page 6 of 8
is higher than the country average, that the poor in rural Sindh suffer from especially severe lack of
connectivity to critical facilities, which is likely to have strong impact on their health.
Non-Income Dimensions of Poverty: Human Development
15.    Poverty is multi-dimensional, manifested not only in low levels of consumption, but also in low
levels of human capital, exacerbated by the inability to undertake investments to improve skills.
Exploring the human dimensions of poverty would thus be critical in understanding not only the nature
and extent of deprivation in Sindh, but also the extent to which such deprivations translate into lack of
capability to enhance future economic opportunities.
16.    The poor in Sindh        Table 9: Educational Attainment of Poor and Non-Poor in Sindh (1998199)
are    characterized   by
relatively  low  levels  of            Literacy Rate               Net Primary Enrollnent Rate
human    development,   as               Rural    Urban   All Sindh  Rural    Urban    All Sindh
indicated   by    . various Poor          24.8     46.5     31.3     24.2      46.7      29.9
education    and    health
indicators. Table 9 shows    on-Poor      36.7     70.8     54.6     43.3      73.9      57.4
thatvin urban and rural areas alike, poor households have lower literacy rates among members (31% of all
poor are literate, compared to 55% of the non-poor), and lower net primary enrollment rates (30% among
the poor, compared to 57% among the non-poor). Among poor and non-poor alike, large rural-urban gaps
in literacy and enrollment rates exist, implying very low spread of education among the poor in rural
Sindh (literacy rate of 25%, and net primary enrollment rate of 24% among the rural poor).
17.    While overall indicators for Sindh are more or less in par with that for the country as a whole, the
rural-urban gap tends to be higher in Sindh, mirroring the pattern seen earlier with consumption poverty
rates. Table 10 shows this, for indicators ranging from enrollment and literacy rates to incidence of pre-
natal medical consultation among pregnant women and contraception prevalence rate. Pre-natal
consultation rate, which is an important proxy for matemal health and mortality, and contraception
prevalence rate in rural Sindh are 19% and 8% respectively; not only do they compare poorly with urban
Sindh, but also fall below the averages for rural Pakistan (22% and 14% respectively). At the same time,
urban Sindh fares better along most dimensions of human development than the urban averages for the
country.
Table 10: Selected Human DelopmentIndicar-s (1998-99)
Male      Female     Male Net    Female Net    Pre-natal       Ever Use
Literacy   Literacy    Primary      Primary    Consultation  Contraception (% of
Rate °0/6)  Rate Y0/.)  Enrollment  Enrollment  Rate (% of   Married Women of
Rate (0)  Rate (%)  Rate (/0)    Rate (%)    Pregnancies)    Age 15-49)
Rural:
Sindh        52.3      11.2        44.3         24.5         19.0             7.9
Pakistan     51.0      16.8        53.6         36.4         22.0            14.3
Urban:
Sindh        77.5      54.9        72.2         62.1         70.4            36.4
Pakistan     73.2      52.3        68.5         64.6         60.1            34.1
OVERALL
SinSl        64.2      31.6        54.6         39.4
Pakistan     58.0      27.2        57.2         43.6          31             19.5



Annex C
Page 7 of 8
18.    Importantly, human development in Sindh is characterized by large gender gaps. Examples of
such gaps can be found in Table 10, by looking at the literacy and enrollment rates by gender in both rural
and urban areas. Gender gaps in both primary enrollment and literacy are wider in rural areas than in
urban areas of Sindh. Moreover, the gender gaps in rural Sindh are found to be more severe than that for
entire rural Pakistan. For instance, while the overall gender gap of 33 percentage point in literacy rates in
Sindh is close to that for the whole country (31 percentage points), female and male literacy rates for rural
Sindh are 11% and 52% respectively, compared to corresponding rates of 17% and 51% for entire rural
Pakistan. In contrast, for urban Sindh, female and male literacy rates are 55% and 78% respectively - a
somewhat smaller gap than for urban Pakistan. Further analysis with the data has revealed that gender
gaps are equally prevalent for both poor and non-poor households. However, since educational
attainment among the poor is generally low in the first place, large gender gaps for the poor necessarily
imply that literacy and enrollment rates among poor women are particularly low, with adverse
implications for future development of human capital (women's education is known to be especially
critical for child health and education).
19.    Looking across the spectrum of indicators, a consistent pattern that emerges is one of rural Sindh
comparing poorly not only with the urban areas of Sindh, but also with the rest of rural Pakistan. This is
true for access to amenities like potable water, sanitation and electric grid, indicators of health and
education, as well as gender gaps in educational achievement. At the same time, the same indicators for
urban Sindh tend to be higher than those for the entire country. The story in Sindh is thus one of a severe
rural-urban gap along all dimensions of human development, to an even greater degree than for the rest of
the country - a story that is entirely consistent with that of relatively high incidence of consumption
poverty in rural Sindh.
Access to Schools and Health Facilities in Rural Sindh
20.    Among    the  number of
factors that may be responsible for Table 11: Access to Schools In Rural Areas (% of Rural Population) (1998-99)9
low    indicators   of    human                             Punjab Sindh NWFP Balochlstan Pakistan
development in rural Sindh, access                             -          _
to   facilities  is    potentially  Nearest Girls' Primary School
important. As Tables 11 and 12
show, rural Sindh suffers from    In PSU or<=l kn distancel0  90.2  45.6  91.1   41.3     78.7
poor access to education and health  Distance >1 & <6 km      7.2   22.0  5.7     6.1      9.7
facilities alike. For more than 74%  Distance >=6 km          2.6   32.4  3.2     52.7     11.6
of the population of rural Sindh,
the distance to the nearest primary  Nearest Boys' Primary School
school for girls is greater than 1  In PSU or <=1 km distance  95.0  94.8  99.6   90.5     95.4
km, compared    to  21%   of the  Distance>1 & <6km           4.0   4.8   0.4     3.5       3.4
population of entire rural Pakistan. Distance >=6 km           1.0  0.4   0.0     5.9       1.1
In terms of access to girls' primary
schools, rural Sindh ranks behind the rural region of every province, except for Balochistan. Given that
Sindh ranks on par with the rest of Pakistan on access to primary schools for boys, (with around 95% of
the rural population living within I km. distance from the nearest school) the gender gap in rural access
to schools is wider in Sindh than in most parts of Pakistan, which may help explain why gender gaps in
enrollments in rural Sindh are wider than for rural Pakistan as a whole.
9 Access to schools here refers to the presence of any school (public/private/NGO/religious). The proportion of public schools,
however, in rural areas is high in the total number, so that the access figures in Table 11 do not change much if only public
schools are included.
'0 PSU refers to Primary Sampling Unit of the survey, which in rural areas is the village.



Annex C
Page 8 of 8
21.     On access to rural health facilities, the same story prevails (Table 12). By any definition of health
facility, rural Sindh ranks behind rural areas of every province except Balochistan. For example, around
63% of the rural population of Sindh live in villages that have at least one kind of medical facility or
health worker, compared to 69% of the population of entire rural Pakistan. Access to family planning
services also remains low in Sindh, which partly explains the relatively low rate of use of contraception
(referred to previously).
22.     Finally, it is important to note
that the measures described above can          Table 12: Access to Health Facilities In Rural Areas by Province
only   partially  represent the   access                              (1 899)
% of Rural Population with
problems that may exist.     Firstly, the              Health Facilities in PSU/village  % of Rural Popl. with
mere   presence   of a facility  is not                   Hospital,      Any Health   Famnily Planning Facility
enough to guarantee quality, or even                    Dispensary or    Facility or    within 3 km. of PSU
that the facility is functional. Quality                  Clinic'         Worker'2
problems    in  education   and   health   Punjab           38.2            70.8              79.6
facilities, according to a number of
studies,  are   rampant   in   Pakistan,   Sindh            36.9            62.5              65.3
including   Sindh.     Secondly,   these   NWFP             54.3            75.9              72.1
measures do not account for the
exclusion   of certain   social groups,    istan            54.9            60.4              60.9
which are also    likely to have high      Rural
concentration of poverty, from services    Pakistan         42.0            69.1              73.5
and facilities. Both these problems can
significantly reduce the effectiveness of services for the poor and disadvantaged groups, thereby affecting
their potential to develop skills and enhance future economic opportunities.
"All public and private hospital, dispensaries and clinics (including BHUs, RHCs, Mother & Child Clinics, and Family Welfare
Clinics).
I2Includes health workers, private practitioners and nurses



Annex D
Page I of 7
ANNEX D: DEVOLUTION AND INTER-GOVERNMENTAL FISCAL FRAMEWORK
FOR PAKISTAN AND SINDH
Inter-governmental Arrangements in Pakistan, 2002: Description and Policy Issues
1.    This note presents inter-governmental fiscal arrangements in Pakistan as of April Ist 2002 with
particular emphasis on the situation of Sindh. We present the inter-governmental arrangements, divided in
three parts: institutional framework, responsibilities/expenditures, and revenues.
Institutional Framework
2.     Pakistan is a two-tier federal state with 4 provinces (by order of population of provinces, Punjab
Sindh North -West Frontier Province Balochistan), various special areas (tribal-FATA, northern) and a
federal district (Islamabad). Local governments are created provincially through local government
ordinances. A new set of local governments was created under the 2001 LGO, which replaces the 1979
LGO. The changes included: (i) the abolition of three levels of provincial administrative units, divisions,
districts and tehsils and of the existing municipal bodies (municipalities and towns); (ii) the creation of
three country-wide levels of local governments: districts (called city districts in the four provincial
capitals) tehsils/talukas (called towns in the four city districts) and union councils. There are also
cantonment boards that administer the civilian part of military cantonments.
3.    The three new types of local governments bodies are not in a legal hierarchy to each other but are
linked through the political process as follows:
*  Each Union council is composed of 21 directly elected members elected in a multi-member
constituency on a non-party basis
*  The Nazim and Naib Nazim (mayor and deputy mayor) are elected on a joint ticket.
*  The Nazim of the Union Council them becomes ex-officio a member of the District council
*  the Naib Nazim of the Union council becomes ex-officio a member of the Tehsil council
The remaining 19 seats on the Union Council are allocated as follows:
*   12 muslim seats, 4 of which are reserved for women
*  6 seats for peasants and workers of which 2 are reserved for women
*  1 seat for minority communities where appropriate
4.     The Union Councils councillors are the Electoral College for the District/Tehsil councillors at
large and the District (Tehsil) Nazim and Naib Nazim, none of which can be Union Council councillors.
District (Tehsil'Town) councils are composed of the Union Council Nazims (Naib Nazims). At large
seats have been reserved within District and Tehsils Councils for women such that women represent 33%
of the total number of Union Councils in the District, and 33% of the total number of Unions in the
Tehsil. In addition, 5% of District and Tehsil seats have been reserved for peasants (countryside)/workers
(cities), and 5% for minorities. Thus, overall, District councils and Tehsil councils are made up of about
2/3 directly elected members and 1/3 indirectly elected, including the two most powerful ones, the Nazim
(Mayor) and the Naib Nazim (Deputy Mayor).



Annex D
Page 2 of 7
Elections to Local bodies in Sindh
Elections to Union councils took place on four'dates in the followmng districts( number of councils in bracketsj-
1. -December 3! ,20000 lacobadad(49),Larkana(80) and Stiikarpur(471,
2.; March 21' 20001 Ghotki(35),Khairpur(76),Nausbero.Feroze(51),Na%abshah(51 Iand Sukkur(46);
'3.. May 3lI: Badmi49).' Dadu(80), Hyderabad(102) Mipurkhas(64), Sanghar(59),Tharpakar(44) and Thalta(55);
4.  July2nd: Karachi I 78).ln this case; elections wsere held- for live distncts ( Karachi,-central, east, 'southern west- and Ualir)
.  hich were then merged together. -  ;  : .
dThev were folloved by election's of couneilors aLtlarge and Nazjii'sfNaib Nazims at the District and tehiil lezels in
August.September 2001: The eleciions',were affected by a call foria boycot by' the MQM party. Nor;withsanding this, the
'elections:           : ',                       .
*   were held in a fair and impartial manner With' little violence ' iiivolved, '  ,
*   were contested by a large number of'newconiers to politics at the;Union Council level, including, women and peasants-
wyorkers.'While the signicitc"L'polirical'office of:districE'Nazimi and,Naib Nazim.was invariably held by someone with
', ',..pre'vious political experience, many oftbose,elected as Union councillors were ofien new enitrants lo politics'- many coming
from comun1ity and NGO,backgrbunds.    '      ...
5.      These local politicians are seconded by civil servants who are currently provincial civil servants
posted to districts and paid by the province out of a notional district budget wage item. Staff appointed to
District governments is drawn from both Federal and provincial cadres. All staff in the civil service
expects to move around both geographically and functionally during their careers, although it is fair to say
that the greatest movement is in the high grades. The Senior Officer in the District is the District
Coordinating Officer (DCO) who replaces the former Deputy Commissioner (DC), and, in a key change,
now reports to an elected politician, the Nazim. The majority of DCOs are drawn from the DMG (District
Management Group) of the Federal Civil Service. DCOs are likely to move around reasonably frequently.
Nazims may request the transfer of a DCO. This has already happened in a small number of districts
where DCOs and Nazims found that they could not form a constructive working relationship. Below the
DCO is an administrative structure of 10 to 12 Executive District Officers (EDOs), who are responsible
for various sectors such as education, health, or literacy. For the EDOs, the key change is that they now
report to the DCO and not to the line ministries in the former divisional/provincial hierarchy. Both DCOs
and EDOs were posted to Districts by the provincial government (devolution transition team) and thus not
selected by their political masters. The effect of this system is to create Districts in which the senior
management posts of DCOs and EDOs are held by officers whose employer is not the District where they
serve.
Responsibilities and Expenditures
6.      Responsibilities of the federal govemment and the provinces are set out in the 1973 Constitution
of Pakistan under Article 70(4), Fourth Schedule. One finds a list of federal powers (in two parts) and a
list of joint powers for the federal and provincial orders of governments. Such a list is called a concurrent
list in British type constitutions; in this case the federal govermnent has paramouncy, which means that in
case of conflict federal legislation dominates. Provinces have residual powers. There is no list of
exclusive provincial powers but some mention of them in the two lists (as exceptions) thus resulting in
little powers for the provinces. Table I summarizes constitutional arrangements. There are no special
powers (no asymmetry) or spending responsibilities of Sindh as per the constitution of Pakistan. That
said, one must note that Sindh has the largest city of Pakistan in its territory and the largest port of the
country. This gives it de facto, a different role in economic activity than other provinces.



Annex D
Page 3 of 7
Table 1. Federal and Provincial Powers
ILe;gislative;Resppisibility;l         Service
Defense
External Affairs
Posts and Telegraphs
Telephones
Radio and TV
Currency
Foreign Exchange
Foreign Aid
Institutes for Research
Nuclear Energy
Federal Government \a     Ports and Aerodromes
Shipping
Air Service
;          Stock Exchanges
National Highways
,       : Geological Surveys
Meteorological Surveys
'      ,   Censuses
Railways
Mineral Oil & Natural Gas
'  Industries
ik';k! t.ls t   ;  < Population Planning
Curriculum Development
Syllabus Planning
Federal & Provincial,     Centers of Excellence
Governments \b             Tourism
Social Welfare
,        Vocational/Technical Training
Employment Exchanges
Historical Sites and Monuments
,   Law and Order
Justice
Tertiary Health Care and Hospitals
Highways
Provincial'Governments     Urban Transport
:   ^, |  , .Secondary and Higher Education*
Agricultural Extension
Fertilizer and Seeds Distribution
Irrigation**
Land Reclamation*+
aI According to Federal Legislative List; b According to Concurrent Legislative List;
The federal government through the University Grants Commission (UGC) funds University Education, but
administrative control is provincial governments.
Development of irrigation is a federal subject.



Annex D
Page 4 of 7
7.      The powers of districts, tehsils/talukas and union councils are described in Table 2. It shows that
districts are mainly responsible for human capital type services, education and health, while tehsils and, to
a lesser extent union councils, are responsible for the provision of municipal type services
Table 2. Responsibilities of Districts, Tebsils and Union CouncilsPaklstan,2002
Responsibility       District                  Tehsil                      Union Council
Education            Primary and secondary     X                           X
education, Literacy
Health               Dispensaries and local    X                           X
hospitals
Roads                District roads            Local roads and street      Local streets
Water                X                         Water supply systems        Wells and Ponds
Sewers and Sanitation  X                       Yes                         X
Fire services        X                         Yes                         X
Parks playgrounds    X                         Yes                         Yes
Anirnals             X                         Slaughterhouses, Fairs      Cattle pounds and grazing areas
Cultural and sport   X                         Fairs, cultural events      Libraries
services
Street services      X                         Street lighting ,signals    Street lighting
Varia                X                                                     Register births and deaths
Source: Analysis of Local Government Ordinance 2001 .An X indicates no responsibilities
8.      The following points are of interest with respect to expenditures of the province and districts of
Sindh:
*   In 2000-2001, social spending accounted for 27%     of provincial spending (of which 20%    was
education and 5% health) followed by interest payments at 18%, and grants and others at 14%.
Development spending came in at 9%;
*   According   to ADB     data, devolved   expenditures to   districts account 35%    of provincial
expenditures;
*   According to ADB data, the wage bill of districts account for 85%      of total spending. Such a
number is not surprising since the main spending item of districts is education with 59% of the
current budget, followed by health at 13%.
Revenues
9.      The financing of the various levels of governments in Pakistan is somewhat complex due to the
large us made of Inter--governmental transfers. Figure I summarizes the main elements as of 2002:



Annex D
Page 5 of 7
Figure 1
Inter-governmental Financial Relations in Pakistan, 2002: a Schematic Exposition
Federal Revenues
Divisible pool revenues         Unshared
Straight         37.5%          62.5%         Revenues
transfers 
of taxes
to           Provinces         Federal
provinces                Grants to
pDrovinces             FZT
Provincial                  *  Provincial revenues
revenues 
Districts transfers  Provincial
Current:            spending
*   Salaries        Current
*   non salaries
Develop
l~  OZT  -ment
Union         ~~~District
Council             Spending                                    ehsils
own                 Development                                  spning
revenues            budget
Union councils                    CCB
Development budgets               project
funding



Annex D
Page 6 of 7
Provincial Revenues
10.   The main source of provincial revenues is a transfer based on a share of federal tax collections.
The decision on the list of taxes to be shared (the "divisible pool'), the ratio of the provincial/federal
share of the pool, and the formula for its distribution to the provinces is to be fixed at least once every five
years (Constitutional provision) by the National Finance Commission (NFC). The NFC members are the
federal Finance Minister, the finance ministers of each of the four provinces, plus other members as the
President chooses. The NFC last rendered an Award in 1996, allocating to the provinces 37.5% of the
divisible pool with the distribution to the provinces by population (based on the 1981 Census of
Population).
11.   This divisible pool, which is about Rs. 430 billion in 2001-2002, is made up of the income tax
(Rs. 150 billion), sales tax (Rs. 180 billion), and revenues from customs (Rs.70 billion), federal excises,
wealth, and capital value taxes (Rs. 30 billion). In addition, various other tax transfers and grants are also
made by the federal government to the provinces. This includes some federally ceded taxes, referred to as
straight transfers, that are returned to the provinces on a derivation basis net of a 2% federal collection
charge (e.g., royalties on petroleum and on natural gas, surcharges and excise on natural gas. The
National Finance Award is now under review. Various possibilities are under study both with respect to
the size of the provincial share of the divisible pool (some provinces are lobbying for an increase from
37.5% to 40 %) and the distribution formula. At present, only population and backwardness criteria (for
NWFP and Balochistan) is used.
District/TebsilWUnion Councils Revenues
12.   Districts are entirely funded by the transfers of resources by the provincial government in 2001-
2002. Until devolution, districts were budgetary units of provincial governments and as result, did not
have autonomous revenues. Now as then, the Districts rely primarily on provincial funds, then as budget
line items, now as accounting/real transfers and thus implicitly on federal-provincial transfers. Indeed,
district budgets for 2001-2002 were prepared by the provincial finance departments and then approved by
the Zila councils in the fall of 2001. Tehsils have inherited from their various predecessor urban bodies
both the Urban hmovable property tax (UPT) and the Octroi/ZilaTax (OZT) replacement grant
revenues. Before discussing each in tum, note that Union Councils have little own revenues; and are
dependent on development funds granted by the district councils.
OZT
13.   Until 1999, Urban bodies such as municipal corporation or town committees collected Octroi
(import taxes levied by municipal entities at their borders on goods imported for resale) while rural ones
collected Zila Export taxes on agricultural goods exported out of rural (then called " Zila") councils.
Together, the octroi (collected largely in urban areas) and zila (rural area) taxes accounted for 50% to
60% of autonomous local revenues. While productive of revenues, both taxes (which when combined are
referred to as the OZT) were notorious for their inefficiency and as a source of corruption at the point of
collection. Accordingly, they were abolished in May 1999 by the Inter- Provincial Coordination
Committee (IPCC) as of fiscal 1999-2000 with the agreement that the federal government would come up
with a replacement grant to be paid to the urban bodies, now the Tehsils.
14.   As of 1999-2000, the federal government implemented a 2.5 % point increase (from 12.5% to a
15%) in the General Sales Tax (GST) in all of Pakistan, thus including Sindh, that was distributed directly
to local bodies as a revenue replacement grant (OZTRRG). This amounted to Rs. 19 billion in OZT
revenues (provincial un-audited figures). Then, for 2000-2001 and subsequent years, arguing that the 2.5
percent of the GST was generating an amount well in excess of the initial Rs. 19 billion (Rs. 30 billions



Annex D
Page 7 of 7
in 2000-200 1), the federal government broke the direct link between the OZT and 2.5% points of GST by
placing the 2.5% of the GST proceeds in the divisible pool to be then divided between provinces
according to the NFC formula. The federal government argues that since 37.5% of the GST surcharge is
in the divisible pool, it now becomes responsible for direct grant equal to only of 62.5% of OZT revenues;
and the provinces will get the other 37.5% through the NFC Award. Thus the replacement grant to the
provinces has fallen to 62.5% of the Rs. 19 billion OZT amount (capped in nominal terms) to the
provinces-i.e. Rs. 11.9 billion (19 x .625). The distribution result is that Sindh which collected 45-50%
of octroi and zila taxes but which receives only 24 % of the divisible pool, has seen its replacement
revenues fall below what it would have collected under OZT
15.   According to both discussions with officials and press reports, the Sindh government's argues for
treating actual receipts of octroi and zila tax in Karachi and all other local councils in 1998-99 as the
benchmark for OZTRRG; and that it should be indexed to the historical trend of annual growth of OZT
receipts (15 per cent). The Sindh government has calculated notional OZT at Rs. 7.83 billion in 1999-
2000, Rs. 9.00 billion 2000-01, Rs. 10.35 billion in 2001-02, Rs. 11.91 billion in 2002-03 and Rs. 13.70
billion in 2003-04. The Sindh government has raised a fundamental issue, arguing that the 2.5 per cent of
15 per cent GST is solely the provincial component of OZT and should not be treated as a part of the
divisible pool. This proposal is likely to be accepted by the GoP.
UIPT
16.   Tehsils also have access to (a pre-devolution) Urban Immovable Property tax (UIPT) and various
fees and user charges. The UIPT, which contributes only 3% to 5% of total tehsil revenues, is
administered and collected by the provinces, with 80.75% of collections remitted to tehsils and the
remainder retained by the provinces. The UIPT is levied in rating areas and the tax is levied at a
minimum rate, but with tehsil councils then having the authority to add an additional surcharge
(piggyback) or levy. To date, no tehsil is yet to levy an additional rate, with the newly elected politicians
arguing that the votes will not see a service-for-tax linkage. Devolution is supposed to lead to that tax
being generalized to the entire tehsil and not only to some urban areas (rating areas) and to be collected
by districts for tehsils, although some suggest that tehsils should collect it themselves.



Annex E
Page I of 9
ANNEX E: SINDH MEDIUM TERM FiSCAL RESTRUCTURING PLAN FY 2002 - FY 2006
A. Background
1.    The province of Sindh has been facing an acute fiscal crisis in recent years due to a combination
of past fiscal mis-management, changes made in the federal revenue transfers mechanism in the 1997
National Finance Commission (NFC) Award, the large and the continued shortfalls in federal
Government transfers. The fiscal crisis has crowded out resources for delivery of public services and
maintenance of provincial infrastructure.
2.     Sindh's fiscal problems were particularly adversely affected by the 1997 NFC Award. Sindh,
which generates the most revenue for the federal government, on the other hand, was left to the instability
of energy-related' "straight transfers" to meet its financial needs. The recurring shortfalls in federal tax
collections and the resultant reduction in Federal flows from the "divisible pool" (see Annex D) added to
the province's fiscal problems. As a result, Sindh had been facing difficulties in meeting its expenditure
obligations and the development and non-salary O&M expenditures have been falling well below the
assessed needs, slowing down economic activity in the province and creating a huge backlog of unmet
repairs and maintenance and unpaid utility bills and SBP overdrafts. Operation and maintenance and
development expenditures have dropped drastically, while that of interest payments on the increasing
provincial debt and wages and pensions have been increasing rapidly.
3.     A concerted effort has been launched by the current GoS to strengthen province's fiscal position
and improve sustainability of its finances. These efforts were formulated in a comprehensive reform
program to increase revenues (described below) and prioritize expenditures. The provincial government's
resolve to implement this reform program is reflected in the FY 01 and FY 02 budgets which contained a
number of tax measures, discharged large provincial deferred liabilities (mainly provincial utility bills,
State Bank overdrafts, subsidy payments) and prioritized expenditures with a special emphasis on
increasing non-salary budgets of the education, health and roads sectors.
B. The Government's Medium-Term Fiscal Reform Program
4.     The present government embarked on a fiscal restructuring program since FY 2000/01 to
restructure provincial finances and put it on a more sustainable basis. The program is designed to
increase fiscal space through revenue measures, retiring liabilities and debt, and increase expenditures in
the social sectors, operations and maintenance, infrastructure rehabilitation and development (Tables 1
through 5 present the main targets of this plan). The GoS's new fiscal restructuring plan is extending this
program to cover the period from FY2002/03 to FY 2005/06. This note, based on full agreement with the
GoS, presents the main targets of this restructuring plan, provincial tax measures that have been and will
be taken and the restructuring of provincial expenditures and finances to increase allocations for human
development, operations and maintenance. Under certain, generally conservative, assumptions, most
importantly on Federal revenue transfers, this note quantifies the financial impact of fiscal restructuring
plan, assesses their overall impact, and determines the need for additional financing that will help to
implement these measures.
These include, Gas Development surcharge, excise duty on natural gas, and royalty of gas and oil.



Annex E
Page 2 of 9
Table 1: Summary Fiscal Accounts of the Government of Sindh
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  (R s  M illion)
1999/pp 2000/01   2001/02              Pro ct ons
Actual  Actual P. Estimate 2002/03 2003/04 2004/05  2005/06
Total Revenues and Grants       55,416  61,576     72,859  81,870  89,831  100,115  111,958
Federal Transfers             35,921   40,479     47,599  50,519  55,810  62,807   70,954
Provincial Revenues            12,794  15,621     18,043  23,800  26,015  28,802   31,947
Tax Revenues                  5,335   7,147       8,163  9,512  10,913   12,543   14,376
Non-Tax Revenues              7,459   8,474       9,880  14,288  15,103  16,260   17,571
o/w Abiana                    576     633        631     788    906     1,042    1,251
Federal grants                 6,700   5,476       7,217  7,551   8,006    8,506    9,057
of which KPP grants                     949       3,080  3,000   3,000    3,000    3,000
OZT grants            6,700   4,528      4,137   4,551   5,006    5,506    6,057
Total Expenditures              55,000  59,559     73,892  85,703  95,462  105,530  112,614
Current Expenditures            51,055  54,153     64,830  70,767  74,046   83,725   92,545
Wages2'                       22,006   23,327     30,568  36,210  38,133  39,953   41,855
Pension                        3,452    3,970      4,600   5,250  5,898    6,644    7,565
Operations and Maintenance     4,669    5,676      6,896   8,737  8,833   13,160    17,704
Interest Payments              11,595  10,440     11,409  12,015  12,377  12,490   12,611
Subsidies                        399    3,729      4,692    999     692      496      353
Grants to LG and Investments     8,934   7,010      6,665   7,556   8,113   10,982   12,457
Development Expenditures & Inve  3,945   5,407       9,062  14,937  18,416  18,806   20,069
Annual Development Program       2,178   2,685       3,800  4,560   5,472    6,566    8,208
Rehabilitation                                              1,500   1,800    2,100    2,400
Foreign Project Assistance       1,178    1,519      1,500  3,577   5,844    6,140    6,461
Investment into Pension/G.P. Fund                           1,000   1,000    1,000       0
Federal Projecst Incl. DERA & ESR  589     365        600   1,300   1,300
Civil Works from KPP Grants         0      838       3,162  3,000   3,000    3,000    3,000
Payment for Severance Package                                       3,000    3,000
Fiscal Balance                    416    2,016      -1,033  -3,833  -5,630  -5,415     -656
Public Savings                   4,361   7,423       8,029  11,104  15,786  16,391   19,413
Primary Fiscal Balance          12,010   12,457     10,375  8,182   6,747    7,075   11,955
Total Expenditures incl. Severance  55,000  59,559  73,892  85,703  98,462  108,530  112,614
Net Financing                     -416   -2,016     -1,033  3,833   5,630    5,415     656
Memorandum Item
Provident Fund (net)             2103     2172       2389
Receipts                        3742    3348        3683   3867    4060     4263     4476
Payments                        1639     1176       1294    1423   1565     1722     1894
Changes in stock of payment arrears      -5519      -6608
Total Cash Balances              -667    5,441       6,401
Projected IDA Adjustment Financing _                        6,250   6,438    6,631
" Starting FY03, these grants may be discontinued by instituting other revenue transfers.
2a Wages for FY 04 through FY 06 include adjustment for savings from separation
3/ Provident Fund Net Receipts are reinvested and not used for budget financing.
Source: Department of Finance, GoS and Bank Staff Estimates



Annex E
Page 3 of 9
5.     Discussions between the Bank and the GoS have been finalized on the MTFRP presented in the
next page. The plan has been prepared with adjustors to take possible changes in revenue position due to
future National Finance Commission Awards and the Provincial Finance Commission (PFC) Awards.
However, the plan as presented below is conservative in that it assumes that the continuation of the
current NFC formula, whereas the expectation is the new NFC awards will allocate higher revenues
shares to the provinces through either greater shares of the provinces in divisible pool or through ceding
additional taxes. Moreover, the proposedplan isfor the consolidatedprovincialfinances and is presented
in broad economic classifications and readily adaptable to awards by the PFC. When the PFC award is
known, the task will be to separate out provincial and non-provincial shares of the budget and allocate the
non-salary operations and maintenance and development expenditures identified for the provincial
program. For the districts, depending on the PFC formula, the transfer will take place through a
combination of formula based untied grants and tied grants to allocate development and O&M
expenditures (salary expenditures being tied).
6.     The focus of this plan is to use increases in provincial tax revenues (rising by more than 15% p.a.),
significantly higher non-tax revenues (from new oil and gas revenues that are collected by the Federal
Government and returned to the province), higher foreign aid (based on specific projections of assistance
from ADB and other donors, but with a 25% discount), and the financing by the proposed structural
adjustment credit from the World Bank to finance poverty-reducing expenditures in the social sectors
especially in critical non-salary items, infrastructure rehabilitation, capitalize pension/General Provident
funds, repay expensive Federal debt, and severance packages for civil service rationalization.
7.     A key task of the fiscal restructuring plan will be to strengthen and integrate tax and budget
administration. Specifically, the GoS will make arrangements at the beginning of the FY 03 fiscal year to
have the two revenue departments (the Board of Revenue responsible for land taxes/agriculture income
tax, stamp duties and irrigation water charges collection and the Excise and Taxation department), and the
Finance department report to a single Minister as in the Federal Government of Pakistan. The technical
capacity of the revenue department will be strengthened through computerizing of land and property
records, using partial satellite imaging and providing greater technical training and incentives for staff.
The tasks of collection and assessment of the major taxes will be separated to avoid conflict of interest.
Finally, in FY 04, the two Revenue department will be integrated into a relatively autonomous Provincial
Board of Revenue, reporting to the Finance Minister, such that it will increase accountability and enable
providing greater performance related incentives for the staff.
8.     The salient features of the MTFRP is discussed below and presented in Tables 2 and 3 and the
discussions below.
* The first year of the MTFRP will be reflected in the GoS's budget for FY 2002/03 with the following
targets: (a) provincial tax revenues collections; (ii) AIT/land taxes, Abiana, and property taxes; (iii)
aggregate expenditures ceilings; (iv) wage and establishment costs ceilings; (v) total current and non-
salary expenditures in primary education, health, and drinking water; and (vi) operation and
maintenance expenditures. Targets for items (v) and (vi) will be adjusted based on resource
availability. If NFC and straight transfers based Federal transfers increase, then these expenditures
will increase in the same proportion. If Federal transfer or provincial revenues fall then these items
will be protected in their Rupee terms.  The poverty reducing expenditure targets on health,
education, and drinking water will be transferred, as needed, to the district and Tehsil Governments as
tied grants (as it is already the case this year with RWSS schemes). In addition to these items, the
GoS will also give high priority in allocating additional resources for the maintenance and
rehabilitation of rural infrastructure. The implementation of overall revenue and expenditure targets,
as well as high priority expenditure targets will be reported in the quarterly fiscal monitoring report.



Annex E
Page 4 of 9
Table 2: Sindh - Public Finances, 1999/00-2005/06
(Percent ofprovincial GDP)
1999/00   2000/01   2001/02                  Projectons
Actual    Actual   P. EsHmate I 2002/03  2003104   2004/05  2005/06
Total Revenues and Grants                6.2       6.2         6.8       7.0       7.0       7.2      7.4
FederalTaxTransfers                     4.0      4.1          4.4      4.3       4.4       4.5       4.7
Provincial Revenues                     1.4       1.6         1.7      2.0       2.0       2.1       2.1
Federal Grants                          0.7       0.6         0.7      0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6
Total Expenditures                       6.1       6.0         6.9       7.3       7.5       7.6      7.4
Development Expenditures                0.4       0.5         0.8       1.4       1.5       1.5      1.5
Fiscal Balance with Severance Payments  0.0      0.2         -0.1     -0.3      -0.4      -0.4       0.0
Primary Fiscal Balance                  1.3       1.3         1.0      0.7       0.5       0.5       0.8
Public Savings                          0.5       0.8         0.7       1.0      1.3       1.3       1.4
Table 3: Composition of Expenditures, 1999/00-2005/06
(Percent of Provincial Expenditures)
1999/00   2000/01    2001/02                 Projectons
Actual    Actual   P. Estimate | 2002/03  2003/04  2004/05   2005/06
Share of total expenditures
Total Expenditures                      100.0    100.0       100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0    100.0
Current Expenditures                    92.8      90.9        87.7      81.4      76.3      77.5     79.9
Wages and Pension                      46.3     45.8         49.1     48.4      46.1      44.2      43.9
Operations and Maintenance              8.5       9.5         9.3      10.3      9.5      12.7      15.9
InterestPayments                       21.1      17.5        15.4      14.0     13.0      11.8      11.2
Subsidies                              0.7       5.3         2.0       1.1       0.7       0.5      0.3
Grants to L.G. and Investments        16.2      12.7        11.8       7.5       7.0       8.4      8.6
Provision for Severence Package                                                  3.1       2.8
Development Expenditures                 7.2       9.1        12.3.     18.6      20.5      19.6     20.1
Share of curfent expenditures
Health and Education Currrent Expenditure  28.2  28.3        33.5      37.1      38.7      38.3     39.7
Share of O&M in Health and Education     8.9      10.7        11.8      17.5      19.4      22.2     26.9
Source: Department of Finance and Bank Staff Estimates
*   The fiscal program    aims to raise public savings for the province through (i) revenue measures; (ii)
increasing cost recovery; (iii) reducing undirected subsidies; (iv) through investment of all G.P.
(pension) funds current surpluses; (v) through an accelerated repayment of expensive debt owed to
the Federal Govermment, and (v) reducing the wage bill through a separation package. Revenues
collected by the provinces will increase by 15% per annum and their share in provincial GDP (GPDP)
goes up from 1.7% to 2.1%. The program contains a number of tax policy and administrative
measures especially relating to the collection of agriculture income tax (using satellite imaging,
having independent assessment done by the SIDA/irrigation departments), and water charge
collections (abiana, through adjusting water rates to account for scarcity and increasing coverage
through the efforts of SIDA and the Area Water Boards). Much of the increase comes from non-tax
revenue sources due to higher royalties from production in Sindh's three new gas fields. Specific
measures and detailed assumptions concerning revenues have been partly discussed above and in
more detail below.
*   The composition of expenditures improves: (i) the wage bill is contained after increasing in FY02 and
FY03, due to a pay reforrm introduced by the Federal Governmene; (ii) the share of development
increases from 12% to 18%; (iii) the share of operations and maintenance expenditure goes up from
9% to 16% by FY06; (iv) share of expenditures on subsidies falls from about 6.3% in FYO1 to less
2 This had the effect of raising total remuneration by around 50%, with the ratio of total remuneration BPS22:BPSI remaining at
around 9.5:1 and the proportion of allowances in total remuneration remaining at around 27%.



Annex E
Page 5 of 9
than 0.3% of all expenditures in FY06; (vi) the plan provides for severance packages for close to
25,000 civil servants.3
* Debt and liabilities are reduced: (i) arrears and overdrafts of Rs. 21 Billion around 2.1% of Gross
Provincial Domestic Product (GPDP) is being retired by FY02; (ii) retirement of expensive CDL
loans by Rs. 6.8 billion (0.7% of GPDP); and (iii) pension funds/G.P. Funds are capitalized by Rs.
13.3 billion 1.3% of current GPDP - both through capitalization and through transferring all pension
funds current surpluses (that currently finance provincial expenditures) to the General Provident
Fund. The capitalization, if directedrto the G.P. Fund only, will go a long way to meet the Rs. 16
billion liabilities (previous employee contributions) in the Provident fund.
* The proposed fiscal program generates transitory fiscal deficits (of around - 0.3% to -0.4% of GPDP)
over the medium term (FY 03 to FY 05). As agreed with GoP and the LMF, these deficits, to be
financed by the proposed SSAC will be part of the Pakistan's consolidated fiscal targets and deficit
financing agreed to under the PRGF program for FY 03 and FY 04. Public savings will increase from
0.7% of GPDP in FY00 to 1.3% of GPDP. The MTFRP is expected to have a financing gap of
around $100 million p.a. from FY03 to FY05 that is expected to be filled by annual disbursements of
the future SSAC4, if implementation of agreed benchmarks are satisfactory.
* While the additional fiscal resources will finance permanent increases in poverty reduction
expenditure, some of the transitory increase in deficits will finance once-off expenditures with long
tern returns by: (i) capitalizing G.P./pension funds; (ii) accelerated repayment of debt (iii) financing
the large backlog of rehabilitation (not recurrent maintenance) of roads and irrigation infrastructure in
poor conditions; and (iv) funding severance payments for civil servants. At the end of the program
period these expenditures will have created significant fiscal space for the Government and their
curtailment will not affect normal current expenditures.
C Revenues and Financing
Federal tax revenue transfer projections
9.     Under the fiscal framework agreed under PRGF program, Federal CBR taxes are projected to
grow at 10.5% p.a. during FY02-FY06, with direct taxes projected to increase by 9.4% p.a., central excise
duties by 11% p.a., and sales taxes by 17% p.a: Revenue from custom duties is expected to remain more
or less unchanged. Based on these figures and the assumption that the new NFC Award would not alter
the revenue sharing formula between the federal and provincial government on the aggregate, federal
divisible pool tax transfers to Sindh are projected to increase by 11.2% p.a. during FYO2-FY06.s
Provincial revenue measures
10.    Revenue measures will be a key part of the Medium-Term Fiscal Restructuring Plan that will be
implemented from FY 03. In general, tax measures will be taken covering all the major taxes including
3 The estimates are based on severance pay of 5 years salary for an assumed 25,000 employees at an average total yearly
remuneration of Rs. 50,000 . Detailed severance costs will be calculated later.
4 The programmnatic adjustment credit for this period will cover this financing gap. In the event, that such financing is not
available, the accelerated debt repayment, pension fund capitalization, and funding for severance payments can be lowered to
eliminate this gap.
5 It is assumed that Sindh's share in divisible pool and the formula for transfer of straight transfers remain the same. In practice,
Sindh's share could increase.



Annex E
Page 6 of 9
property, MVT, registration, professional taxes, ArT, stamp duties and abiana collections. The revenue
targets under the MTFRP are presented in Table 4, next page.
11.   The Agriculture Income Taxes (AMI)/land revenues and the abiana collection are two major
sources of untapped revenue potential in Sindh. In the case of the Agriculture Income Tax and Land tax,
the Government of Sindh has adopted the recommendations of the a Task Force to implement the
following measures over FY 03: (i) removing the land threshold for agricultural income taxes and instead
making it income based (i.e. applicable on all incomes over Rs. 80,000); (ii) computerization of revenue
records, collection systems and the crop assessment system starting from the four major districts (in FY
03) to cover all districts by FY 04; (iii) timely issuance of bills of assessment by the Tapedars to the
Khatedars; (iv) using partial satellite imaging to make independent assessment of agricultural income
tax/land tax potential; and (v) using independent assessments of by the Irrigation department to
supplement this assessment.  These recommendations are expected to go a long way in checking
corruption, in making the system of abiana and AIT assessment more transparent and in mobilizing
additional resources. It will also represent a major shift from the traditional, outmoded revenue
assessment and collection system in the rural sector towards the institution of one that is modem and
scientifically based.
12.   In the case of Abiana, or irrigation rate collections, the GoS is gradually extending the authority
of the Sindh Irrigation Development Authority (SIDA) and area water boards and farmer organizations
under it to increase cost recovery, which is currently only a third of operations and maintenance costs.
Farmers organizations are encouraged to set water rates, make assessments and retain cost recovery
proceeds. The GoS aims to increase of water charge collections by 20% p.a. through a combination of
improved collection and expansionr of base and through rate increases as needed. The improvement in
collections and coverage is expected to occur though the efforts of the newly set up Sindh Irrigation
Development Authority and the farmer based Area Water Boards and Farmer Organizations who have
been given the incentive of retaining a share of the proceeds for the maintenance of their infrastructure.
The GoS will review progress in mid FY 02 and adjust water charges as needed to attain this target.
13.   The GoS recognizes that although path-breaking work has been carried out in the area of property
tax resulting in a large increase in forecasted property tax revenues in FY 02 considerable room exists for
improvement. Some of the proposals under discussion are to give incentives for compliance while
imposing penalties for delays in payment, a review of the exemptions and equity of the newly installed
tax system in not fully capturing the element of "pugree" (goodwill) of commercial properties etc.



Annex E
Page 7 of 9
Table 4: Sindh - Revenue Receipts, 1995/96 - 2005/06
VIYwU      Luu/Ul     LWJ1J0               1rojections       i-rowtf ('/e p.a.
Actual     Actual   P. Estimate  2U2/03  20U3/04 2004/05 2W5/06      FVyOZ-FY9
11AL(:CURK        NIRECEIT'Is             55,416    61,575      72,859   81,870   8Y,831 100,115  111,951          11.
TAX RECEEIS                                41,257   47,626       55,761  60,031   66,723 75,350    85,330           11.2
Federal tax transfer                    35,921   40,479      47,599   50,519   55,810 62,807    70,954           10.5
Direct Taxes                          8,949    10,048      11,914   12,335   12,895 14,829   17,054            9.4
Sales tax                             9,623    12,932      15,651   18,196   21,870 25,150   28,923           16.6
Custors                               5,174     5,272       5,772    5,019    4,954  5,325    5,725           -0.2
Excise duty on Natural Gas            1,762     2,014       2,288    2,460    2,644  2,908    3,199            8.7
Surcharge on Natural Gas/petro.lferti  5,977    6,384       7,600    7,600    7,955  8,552    9,407            5.5
Other Federal Excise Duties           4,436     3,828       4,373    4,909    5,493  6,043    6,647           11.0
Federal Government Grants                6,700    5,476        7,217   7,551     8,006  8,506    9,057            5.8
Federal Non-Developrnent Grants      6,700    4,528       4,137    4,551    5,006   5,506    6,057           10.0
Federal Development Grants              0       948        3,080   3,000    3,000   3,000    3,000           -0.7
Provincial revenue                      12,794    15,621      18,043  23,800   26,015 28,802    31,947           15.4
Povincial taxes                          5,335    7,147        8,163   9,512    10,913  12,543  14,376           152
Direct taxes                           802      1,525       1,972   2,399     2,749  3,159    3,632           16.5
Urbanimrwvableproperiytax             201      421          987    1,185    1,339   1,513    1,710          14.7
AgricultureincomeandLandTax           117      547          540     702       821    969     1,144          20.6
Registration fee                      197      257          290     333       383    441      507           15.0
Land reveiue (tax)                    146       158           0       0         0      0        0
Taxes on profes,trades, callings      142       143         155     178       205    236      271           15.0
Indirect taxes                        4,533     5,622       6,190    7,113    8,164  9,384   10,745            14.8
Motorvehicletax                       637      929          981    1,128    1,241   1,365    1,502          11.2
GST on Services                                             494     642       803   1,003   1,254           26.2
Stamp duties                        1,772     1,814       1,841    2,099    2,456  2,873    3,304           15.7
Entertainmen tax                       67       60           42      46        49     53       57            7.5
Electricity duties                    202      333          315     339       364    391      421            7.5
Hotel tax                              91       97           57      61        65     70       76            7.5
Provincial excises                    755      691          600     660       726    799      879           10.0
Other(mainlyinfrastructurecess)      1,009    1,697        1,860   2,139    2,459   2,828    3,253           15.0
Provincial non-tax revenue               7,459    8,474        9,880  14,288    15,103  16,260  17,571           15.5
Interest                                  381        73          15       15       16      17       18            5.0
Dividends                                   3         3           6        6        7       8       9            10.0
Royality on Natural Gas and Oil         3,689     5,287        6,571   8,708    10,068 10,840   11,673           15.4
Civil Adminstration Receipts              403       192         506      558      618     683      755           10.5
General Administration                   53        60          59      65        72     80       88            10.5
Law and Order                           350       132         447     493       545    603      667            10.5
User Charges                            1,189     1,224       1,268    1,493    1,668   1,865    2,139           14.0
Community Services                      99        68         100      108       116    124      134            7.5
Works                                  42       57           28      30        32     34       37            7.5
Public Health                          57        11          72      78        84     90       97            7.5
Social Services                        350       314         367      395      424     456      490             7.5
Education                             264      213          198     213       229    246      265            7.5
Health                                 81       94          162      174      187    201      216            7.5
Others                                  5         8           7       8         8      9       10            7.5
Economic Services                       727      842         801      976     1,113   1,269   1,501            17.0
Irrigation (largely water charges)    576      633          631     788       906   1,042    1,251           18.7
Others                                151      209          171      188      206    227      250            10.0
Excisedidyonminerals                     13        -            0       15       15     15       15
Foreign Grants                           19        20          13    1,000     1,000  1,000    1,000          195.2
Owters Landlease, sugarcane cess)        1,775    1,674        1,502   2,508    1,727   1,848    1,977            7.1
14.      To simplify tax collection, plug leakages and make the Motor Vehicle tax more elastic and
buoyant the provincial government desires to change its mode of collection from the present flat rate tax
per vehicle to a levy on fuel consumption. The present mode of collection other than being inelastic is
ridden with innumerable administrative complications and inefficiencies, including a cumbersome tax
collection method involving regular vehicle inspection with high incidence of leakage. The change in the
mode of collection would also make the tax more equitable by creating a direct linkage with road usage.
This institutional arrangement will also eliminate existing distortions whereby vehicles get registered and
pay tax in one province while essentially plying in another. However, if the MVT is not replaced with a
fuel consumption tax, then the existing flat rates will be indexed.
15.      From    FY   2003 the Registration rates applicable to different categories of vehicles are being
raised. Moreover, it is being proposed that penalties be levied for delayed payments of the annual road tax



Annex E
Page 8 of 9
at graduated rates, with a minimum of 25% of the prescribed rate for arrears of one year and a maximum
of four times the rate for periods exceeding three years.
16.    The existing provincial Professional Tax is based on an inelastic, flat rate based, antiquated
structure riddled with anomalies in respect of assessee categories and applicable rates. The Government
of Sindh recognizes the need, and is determined, to completely overhaul both the structure and system of
collection. To this end, the present professional tax payable by all Income Tax assesses will be replaced
by a tax to be collected with the MWT. This change is expected to result in the quadrupling of the revenue
from this source over the program period. Furthermore, a proposal that recommends its linkage to
sales/turnover in the case of commercial enterprises is under discussion with the Federal Government. To
replace it with a professional ad valorem tax on turn over, the GoS is examining the following options: a)
its collection through the CBR's Collectorate for GST; b) for Commercial establishments like shops,
retails outlets not currently assessed for GST, the collection could be on the basis of turn over accepted in
the most recent Income Tax assessment order of the related enterprise, again collected by the Sales Tax
Collectorate; and c) enterprises presently exempted from GST, such as Banks, Schools, and Private
Hospitals, to become liable for the professional tax/businesses licensing fees on per branch basis.
17.    From FY 03 urban boundary limits are being extended to include all peri-urban areas to enable
land/property earlier classified as agricultural/rural in nature but had acquired urban characteristics to be
treated as urban property for purposes of stamp duty levied on property transfers; this measure will bring
large residential and commercial areas into the tax net and assist generation of sizeable additional
revenues.
18.    To prevent shiffing of potential tax bases discussions have also been initiated with the other
provincial governments to institute uniform rates of stamp duties on financial documents and also
incorporate penalty provisions in the legislation.
19.    Since imposition of stamp duties and registration of documents are closely linked activities and
assignments the offices of Stamps and Registration are being integrated by re-designating the Inspector
General Stamps as Inspector General Stamps & Registration under Member Registration and Stamps in
the Board of Revenue. Moreover, to plug revenue leakages the GoS is planning to appoint qualified
personnel as additional stamp inspectors (presently only 3) and upgrading their posts.
20.    To plug revenue leakages from excise duty on liquor the GoS plans to coordinate with the other
provincial governments to harnonize the taxation system by installing a uniform rate structure for all
provinces. As an additional measure to check evasion the GoS will also examine the possibility of
replacing the existing structure with a presumptive tax regime.
21.    Other medium-term reform measures include: a) Renegotiations of rates of land leased out to
private businesses. This change is expected to generate a one time additional revenues in excess of Rs. I
billion during FY 03 along with faster growth in revenue collection; b) Speedy automation of the
collection systems for Professional and Property taxes and for the Infrastructure Development.Fee; c)
Strengthening of the administrative and technical capability to levy and secure taxes by hiving off the
revenue collection functions of the Board of Revenue to an essentially autonomous authority/department
in which the revenue raising responsibilities of the Excise and Taxation Department will be merged. This
new institution will function under the authority of the Finance Department. The upgrading of skills, the
creation of appropriate incentive structures and the computerization of the land and property tax records
will help enhance the tax administration capabilities of this agency; d) Launching of resource
mobilization studies to develop additional proposals for consideration as resource augmentation measures.



Annex E
Page 9 of 9
Financing
22.      The financing projections for the MTFRP is also presented below               in Table 5 below. The key
features of financing are the following: (i) there is a significant increase in projected foreign financing
(shown under foreign debt), which have been identified in detail but then have been discounted by 25%;
(ii) there is an accelerated repayment of Federal CDL loan repayments. In addition to the projection of
Rs. 1.4 billion repayment per year, another Rs. 6.7 billion in accelerated debt repayment have been added;
(iii) financing from general provident funds receipts or various public accounts and cash balances are
stopped, in the latter case from FY 04. This reflects GoS's aim to carry out a full reconciliation of the
assets and liabilities of these funds over the next year.
Table 5: Sindh - Available Financing
(Rs Million)
1999/00  2000/01     2001/02                  Projections
Actual P. Actual   P. Estimate    2002/03   2003/04  2004/05  2005/06
Fiscal Balance                            416     2,016          -1,033     -3,833   -5,630   -5,415    -656
Available Financing (net)                -416    -2,016          -1,033      3,833    5,630   5,415      656
Public Debt (net)                       -1,852   -4,110          -3,215     -2,483     -807  -1,216      656
Receipts                              6,317    4,022           3,316      3,749    6,034    6,348    6,690
Repayments                            8,168    8,132           6,531      6,232    6,841    7,564    6,034
Domestice Debt (net)                  -1,854    -2,400         -2,944
Receipts
Repayments                            1,854    2,400           2,944
Federal Debt                               3    -1,315          -1,367     -3,555   -3,621  -3,689   -1,368
Receipts Payments                     2,645
Repayments                            2,642     1,315           1,367      3,555    3,621   3,689     1,368
Floating Debt                              0         0              0           0       0        0        0
Receipts                              3,672     2,685            150         173     190      209      230
Repayments                            3,672     2,685            150         173     190      209      230
Foreign debt                                      -395           1,096      1,072    2,814   2,473    2,024
Receipts                                        1,337           3,166      3,577    5,844   6,140    6,461
Repayments                                      1,732           2,070      2,504    3,030   3,667    4,437
State Bank
Provident Fund (net)                     2,103    2,172           2,389       0  '       0        0        0
Receipts                               3,742    3,348           3,683       3,867   4,060    4,263    4,476
Payments                               1,639     1,176          1,294       1,423   1,565    1,722    1,894
Changes in stock of payment arrears              -5,519          -6,608      -2,500
Total Cash Balances                      -667     5,441           6,401      2,566       0        0        0
Net Capital Receipts                     1,897     -324            -350          --      -        -        -
Net Receipts from Deposits & Adv.        1,159    3,847           3,500          --      -        -        -
Net Receipts from Remiittances            105        99            200       1,300       --
Net receipts from Departmental Acts.        3         0              -2          -       _        _
Net Receipts from Govt. Accounts          -58        18              0           -
Cash Balance Utilization                -3,772    1,802           3,053      1,266
Projected IDA Adjustment Financing    _                                      6,250    6,438    6,631       0



Annex F
Page I of 6
Annex F: Public Financial Accountability and Management in Sindh Province
1.    Financial management and accountability issues are at the center of the Sindh Government's
reform program. Improvement in fiscal management, quality of public accounts, civil service and public
accountability, and procurement are among the key reform targets.
2.     A preliminary Provincial Financial Accountability Profile has been prepared for Sindh province
and based on its findings, a Reform Program has been agreed with the Government. The desk review as
part of the proposed Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) also reviewed the provincial
financial accountability issues and had a special section on the Local Government financial accountability
framework. As part of the forthcoming CFAA, a separate modular paper will be prepared in the form and
scope of a Provincial Financial Accountability Assessment (PFAA).  This assessment will cover
accountability issues for all tiers of government in the province.
3.     Accountability Framework:
*  Pakistan's Financial Accountability Framework and accounting and auditing institutions are
centralized. The financial rules governing Federal and Provincial Governments described in
the Constitution are completely similar, and provinces mostly follow Federal Government
budgetary rules. The Federal Government's Controller General of Account's office, attached
to the Federal Ministry of Finance, is responsible for the preparation of the Civil
Appropriation Accounts of all Governments, from the Federal to the District Governments.
The Pakistan Auditor General's office is responsible for auditing the different levels of
governments except the smallest tiers of local govermnents (which is audited by the Local
Fund Audit Department).
*  Much of the desk review and analysis for the proposed CFAA and Bank's interventions
through the ongoing Project to Improve Financial Accounting and Auditing (PIFRA) and the
proposed follow-on project apply to all tiers of provincial and district governments. These
factors guided the policy dialogue between GoS and the Bank teams in the preparation of this
credit.
4.     The main findings of the preliminary Profile and CFAA desk review relevant to provincial
government are that:
*  Public accountability practices have weakened in all areas - budget preparation and
implementation, accounting, monitoring and reporting of public expenditures, transparency,
auditing, and legislative oversight. Correspondingly, the fiduciary risks are high. While a
legal framework for public accountability is in place, it needs modernization as many of the
rules are antiquated and do not provide enough incentives for enforcement.
*  Structural rigidities, civil service overstaffing, vertical revenue-expenditure imbalances in the
provinces, lack of fiscal transparency and poor monitoring have undermined both Federal and
Provincial budgets as tools of economic policy. Inadequate accountability for public
enterprise financial management, lack of monitoring of implicit and contingent liabilities,
absence of emphasis on performance and outcomes, and lack of transparency of budgets have
all contributed to lowering the effectiveness of public expenditures. There is inadequate
intra-year monitoring and reporting of budget implementation.



Annex F
Page 2 of 6
* Accounting and financial reporting functions have been undermined in their objectives of
assuring financial regularity, propriety of expenditures and compliance with budget
appropriations through widespread breakdown of established internal controls. Accounts
have become unreliable, as these have been prepared in recent years without appropriate
reconciliation. The completeness, accuracy and timeliness of accounting information has
been hampered by the use of a largely manual, single entry, fully cash based accounting
system for maintaining government accounts, with associated high risk of errors and delays in
capture of accounting data.
* Auditing function has suffered because they were not considered on a timely basis and Public
Accounts Committees (PACs) have not reviewed the reports expeditiously, thereby limiting
the relevance of the public audit system. The quality of the audit reports needs improvement
by reducing the emphasis on irregularities and giving more attention to materiality and
significant systemic weaknesses of financial management. The role of the PACs in bringing
the principal accounting officers of ministries and departments, and their staff, to account for
serious non-compliance with financial policies and procedures has been weakened due to the
delay with which audit reports have been dealt with.
5.     Another aspect of weak financial management in Sindh is outdated and inadequate procurement
regulations that cause delay, lack transparency and is vulnerable to corruption.
6.     The CFAA desk review also noted that the GoP had launched a comprehensive program to
address these issues. The main challenges are to implement these reforms and extend it to sub-national
govermments
7.     On-going Reforms:
The following components of the ongoing PIFRA project and the proposed follow on project will
have a positive impact on the provincial financial accountability and management in terms of improving
timeliness and reliability of accounts.
* Adoption of the New Accounting Model (NAM) which includes a new Chart of Accounts
(CoA) having flexibility to track expenditures up to the lowest tier of govemment.
*  Computerization of govemment accounting in stages with proposal to cover all the 127 sites
in Pakistan.
* Development of systems specification and a suitable add on feature for addressing. the
accounting and reporting needs of districts and downwards.
* Capacity building of the District Accounts Offices
8.     GoS has initiated the following actions:
* Appointment of Provincial Fiscal Monitoring Committee (PFMC) to improve and oversee the
reconciliation of accounts. FY01 accounts were reconciled by September 2001 compared to
only 6% reconciliation a year ago. For FY02, expenditure and receipts for the first two
quarters have been reconciled (on a function wise basis) for 88% and 77% of funds
respectively. The variation between the Accountant General and SBP FY 01 records now is
Rs.149 million -- compared to Rs 1.2 billion last year.
* Setting up of an effective Ad hoc Public Accounts Committee to strengthening
accountability. The PAC, staffed by highly reputed retired Govemment officials and private



Annex F
Page 3 of 6
sector Chartered Accountants, has completed review of the FY99, FY92 and FY93 audit
reports, and is now reviewing the most recent FY 00 Audit report.
*  Improved Budget Implementation. Implementation of the budget has remained generally on
track in FY 02. Streamlining of fund release procedure for development and non- salary
funding release for priority sectors have helped to achieve these results'. To further
strengthen budget implementation and transparency, GoS is preparing quarterly fiscal reports,
based on reconciled accounts that will be made publicly available.
*  Improved arrear, debt and quasi-fiscal management. In addition to paying off arrears, GoS
has taken steps to control arrears and other liabilities. It has agreed with WAPDA and is
discussing with KESC the arrangements to set up billing dispute resolution mechanism;
avoiding future arrears by metering all remaining government sites; and cutting off power to
agencies in the event of future arrears. To strengthen quasi-fiscal management, the GoS is
also now undertaking a review of the financial statements of public enterprises and
autonomous bodies and identify information gaps that need to be filled.
9.     Agreed immediate actions: (please see Attachment 1 for agreed GoS Financial Management
Reform Program).
* Opening of PAC proceedings to the press.
* Appointment of a Provincial Financial Controller (as per the terms of reference agreed with
the Bank) to initiate and lead the Sindh financial management improvement program.
* Constitution of a Coordination Committee/Task Force to guide development of the financial
modernization program.
* Carrying out a modular provincial accountability assessment and agree on a detailed time
bound financial management improvement program.
10.   Medium Term Reform Plans for FY03 and FY04, include: (i) implementation of the Financial
Management Reform Program, institutional and personnel reforms to improve financial management
capacity and internal controls in provincial departments; establishment of internal audit unit in each line
departments; (ii) strengthening District Government Financial Management and upgrading the level of
District Accounts Officers (DAOs) to Grade 18/19 and post qualified personnel in these posts; (iii)
computerization of all fiscal accounts up to the district level; (iv) improvements in fiscal transparency by
introducing the new Chart of Accounts and New Accounting Model; (v) review and reforms of financial
rules to make these consistent with the new accounting model; (vi) improving the tracking of
recommendations of the Auditor General and PACs; and (vii) publication of audit reports on the web
page.
Improving the Legal and Regulatory Framework for Procurement
11.   While the GoS has taken steps to decentralize procurement to the administrative departments to
increase efficiency, the procurement of goods, civil works, and consultants' services is carried out
through outdated and ambiguous rules and regulations. The application of these rules is further distorted
by the practices that have grown over the years to hinder genuine competition for government business.
The current rules, further, allow officials wide latitude in applying, ignoring or misusing the rules
resulting in inefficient procurement that provides little assurance of transparency and value for money.
' The requirements for clearance of financial release orders by the P&D department and Finance release orders for high priority
sectors have been removed.



Annex F
Page 4 of 6
The legal and regulatory framework also does not provide an effective means for settling disputes or
addressing the grievances of suppliers/contractors/consultants.
12.    The Government of Sindh has decided to improve the overall legal and regulatory framework for
procurement by taking steps in FY 03 which include (a) revision of the procurement rules, manuals and
codes, to consolidate and simplify processes, increase competition and transparency, and introduce a code
of ethics applicable to all procurement of goods, works and consultants' services in the province (b)
developing  and   adopting  standard  bidding  documents   for   procurement  of   goods,
pharmnaceuticals/vaccines, and works; and (c) establishing a fair and effective mechanism for redressal of
grievances/complaints from suppliers, contractors and consultants. The GoS also plans to enact a
Procurement Law in FY 04 legislating the fundamental principles of good public procurement practices to
promote economy, efficiency, and transparency.
13.    The Sindh Finance Department will be responsible for implementation of the agreed
improvements in the procurement framework through close consultation and coordination with the
concerned line departments and agencies. For this purpose, a dedicated and qualified focal person will be
appointed in the Finance Department who will be assisted, as required, by qualified government staff
deputed from within the Finance Department or from other government agencies, or by short-term
consultants engaged from the private sector.
14.    To expedite implementation of the procurement reform agenda, the Secretary Finance proposed
to review and pick up some of the initiatives that were started by GoS several years ago. The Bank will
provide technical advice, if and when required, and share with GoS models/examples of similar reforms
that have been successfully implemented in other countries.



Annex F
Page 5 of 6
Attachment 1- Sindh Financial Management Reform Program Indicators
Outcome                     Performance Benchmark                  Target Date       Baseline (May,      Responsibility
2002)
1. A. More reliable,    1. Progressively improved reconciled data in all  Improvement in   Receipts - 81%      FMC and AG
comprehensive,      accounting units. 95% reconciliation to be achieved  each quarter  Exp - 92%
timely and          within three months after the end of the quarter.
accurate
information      2. Substantial reduction in "unidentified" financing from  Improvement in  Rs. 6.4 Billion  SBP, AG, DF
pertaining to the   public accounts and deposits. To be confirmed by a  each quarter
government          special audit opinion from an auditor acceptable to the.
financial           Bank.
transactions.
3. Up gradation of the grade levels of DAOs and TAOs  Dec.31, 2002  New initiative.    CGA, NRB and GoS
(Grade 18/19).
B. Improved internal  4. Significant increase in the number of DAOs posted in  Improvement in  New initiative.  CGA, NRB and GoS
control             the revised upper grade with appropriate qualifications  each year from
environment         and experience approved by the CGA.            January 1,2003
and to be
completed by
Dec.2005.
C. Increased        5. Progressively increasing percentage of govemment  100 % by Dec.31,  Zero %          CGA, GoP, GoS and
credibility of      transactions through computerized accounting (under  2005                            AG
government          PIFRA).
financial
statements with  6. Establishment of an effective internal audit unit for  All Units to be set  None     GoS, AG and
public and the      each Ministry and Department.                  up by Dec.2003                        concemed line
international                                                                                            ministries
donor community
2. Improvement in       1. Appointment of a Provincial Financial Controller  July 31, 2002  New initiative     GoS/DF
financial            2. Constitution of a Coordination Committee      July 31, 2002     New initiative     GoS/DF
management of
provincial and local  3. Carry out a provincial financial accountability  December 31,  New diagnostic      GoS with Bank &
govemments            assessment and agree on a detailed time bound     2002              work             other donor support
improvement programL



Annex F
Page 6 of 6
Outcome                     Performance Benchmark                   Target Date       Baseline (May,      Responsibility
2002)
4. Publication of financial reports (half yearly from  From first quarter New initiative  GoS, DAO, DCO,
FY2004 and quarterly from FY2005) along with  of FY2003-04                           Dt.Nazims and AG
annual audited financial statements of District
Governments.
3. A. Increased          1. Incorporation of details of actual cash recovery  From annual report New initiative  GoS, Auditor
deterrence to         from audit findings due to fraud, waste and abuse  relating to FY2003               General and
fraud, waste and      reported in the Auditor Geneal's annual report                                      Controller
abuse of public       (subsequent to setting up of a separate head of
funds and             account and installation of reporting systems for
investment.           tracking recoveries on account of audit findings).
B. More open,        2. Percentage of Auditor General's recommendation  Starting from   New initiative       PAC Secretariat and
productive and        accepted by the provincial PAC to be tracked  recommendations                       Controller
answerable            through a Management Information System (MIS).  in FY2003 report
government.
C. Increased         3. Percentage of PAC's recommendations accepted by  Starting from  New initiative       PAC Secretariat and
credibility of        the Government for implementation to be tracked  recommendations                    Controller
government            through a Management Infornation System (MIS).  in FY2003 report
audited financial
statements with   4. Posting of audit reports in the web page soon after From reports  New initiative     Auditor General,
public and the        PAC discussions                               relating to FY2002                    PAC Secretariat and
international                                                                                             Controller
donor community.
4. A. Improvement in    I. Improvement in the legal and regulatory framework  End of FY03   New initiative      DF to coordinate
Public               for public procurement by revising procurement                                       inter-departmental
Procurement          rules and manuals, standardizing bidding documents,                                  committee.
and establishing an effective mechanism to redress
complaints from suppliers and contractors.
2. New procurement law legislating good public    FY04              New initiative       DF to coordinate
procurement practices.                                                              inter-departmental
committee.



Annex G
Page I of 11
ANNEX G: SINDH EDUCATION AND HEALTH SECTOR REFORMS PROGRAM
Background
1.     Despite the articulated policy priority to primary education and the large investments
(approximately Rs. 10 billion) in the elementary sub-sector in the last decade, close to 70% of Sindh's
rural children are out of school. The Government of Sindh continues to face the enormous challenge of
bringing a majority of its primary age children, especially girls, into school, ensuring retention and
completion of basic education (Class I-VII1) and enhancing learning achievement. During the period
1990-99, the overall gross and net enrollment rates at the primary level in government schools fell from
55 to 48% and 33 to 29% respectively, a trend reflecting a combination of the decline in confidence in the
public system of delivery and the inability of the system to cope with and cater to the growing cohort of
school-aged children.
2.     Participation trends of the past decade reveal: a) a widening urban -rural gap, for rural areas the
GER fell from 50 to 47%, while in urban areas it rose from 87 to 94%; b) a modest decrease in the gender
gap, but mainly attributable to the decline in rural boys' enrollment rather than any significant increase in
girls' enrollment; c) the proportion of children enrolled in government schools declined from 85 to 75%;
d) the decline is most acute amongst the rural poor, with the lowest enrollment rates (12% NER) of
children from the lowest income quintile households in rural areas; and e) the private sector now accounts
for 40% of enrollment in urban areas but rural Sindh is pre-dominantly dependent on public delivery with
95% of enrolled students attending government schools. There are 38,885 government primary schools
(both rural and urban), and out of these more than 50% lack basic facilities like water supply, toilets and
boundary walls.
Key Issues Facing the Education Sector
3.     During the decade of nineties, low education outcomes can be attributed to factors within the
education delivery system as well as external factors such as rising poverty in rural areas, low
expenditures for quality improvements and political instability leading to high levels of politicization of
education as manifested in interference in school siting and teacher recruitment. Lack of performance
accountability and these chronic governance issues have paralyzed the education system and rendered it
incapable of delivering minimal levels of school services. Key issues facing the education sector include:
*  high teacher absenteeism and lack of accountability
*  capacity constraints and inadequate attention to regular monitoring and supervision
*  little or no community oversight and role in school affairs, even though Parent Teacher
Associations were established
*  lack of adequate and timely availability of school supplies and materials,
*  large number of non-functioning schools (more than 5,000 schools, or 13% of total number of
schools, had not been functioning during the past decade due to lack of teachers or sanctioned
posts),
*  lack of accountability of school management to communities and users,
*  Low utilization of the existing infrastructure due to high teacher vacancies, wrong siting of
schools, and missing basic facilities in schools.
*  Efficiency issues leading to an uneven student teacher ratio:
*  Poor quality of education due to falling teacher competencies.



Annex G
Page 2 of 11
Government Reform Program: Objectives and Strategy
4.     Seized with the' alarming crisis in the delivery of public sector basic education services, the
Department of Education, over the past eighteen months, has been engaged in a serious review and
analysis of the status of the sector. Based on the sector review and coupled with intensive consultations
with the reform leaders in the province, the Department has developed a medium term reform program to
improve and expand the delivery of education, arrest the deterioration in public schools, and rebuild
public confidence in the education system. The GoS has developed an Education Sector Reforms
program, and an Education Sector Strategy to implement this program. These strategies are contained in
the Sindh elementary education strategy document dated'June 11, 2001, and in the overall Education
Sector Reform documents dated November 2001.
5.    Improving the quality of delivery and access to education, consolidating the physical and human
resource base, strengthening public-private partnerships, and improving govemance are the core priorities
of the reform program developed by the Department of Education. The goal is to ensure that by 2010,
80% of Sindh's primary school age children are enrolled, complete primary school education (through
reduced drop-out rates), and graduate with basic primary skills of numeracy and literacy. Beyond
primary education, the GoS is emphasizing technical stream of education in the secondary sector to equip
graduates with relevant skills for employment. During FY02, GoS has received additional financing from
the federal govemment under the Education Sector Reform (ESR); these funds have been passed on the
district governments under a Memorandum of Understanding signed between the Provincial Education
Department and each district. The ESR financing is complementing the Sindh Govermnent's reform
program.
Implementation of Reforms
6.     The Department of Education has already taken steps and actions to implement reforms. The
program is headed in the right direction though it will take some years before province-wide results are
seen due to the large backlog of issues and a long period of neglect in the public delivery system. The
progress in' implementation includes:
7.    Increasing Access: The Govemment has launched its compulsory primary education program
starting with April 2002 academic year, and has begun implementation in 16 talukas with the target of
covering one taluka in each district by end FY03, and full coverage by year 2005. Prior to this primary
enrollment drives have been initiated and the first one in September 2001 led to about a 5% increase in
enrollment with enrollment of 120,000 new students. The Govenmment of Sindh intends to maintain this
momentum, and to monitor retention of the newly enrolled children.
8.    Reducing Gender disparities: The incentive program through distribution of free primary
textbooks has been enhanced from covering only rural girls to girls in urban slum schools, and
approximately 340,000 sets of books were distributed in the free textbook program in FY01. In FY02,
textbook delivery is underway with the start of the April 2002 academic year covering both boys and
girls. Scholarships for deserving female students are being delivered and 10,000 such scholarships were
given in FY01. In FY02 funds have been distributed to districts for textbooks (Rs. 172 m), and
scholarships (Rs. 64 m). Further, a decision has been taken to appoint female teachers in all primary
schools.
9.    Improving Quality: To assess current teacher quality, three-month training courses have been
initiated, along with pre- and post-training tests to assess levels of competency. This exercise is intended
to help improve teaching standards. In service teacher training has been provided to 5284 candidates, and
management training of Principals and Supervisors is under proce,ss. A provincial education assessment
program to assess student leaming outcomes has been approved with implementation beginning in FY03



Annex G
Page 3 of 11
10.    Consolidation of Physical Infrastructure and the Human Resource Base: Consolidation of the
development program is being pursued with a priority on completing ongoing schemes and reducing carry
forward both in primary and secondary sectors. Recognizing that under utilization of the physical
infrastructure remains a core issue, the Govermnent has initiated a major redeployment exercise and as a
result 5,477 teachers have been re-deployed, making 2,399 schools functional through this process.
According to data provided by the Education Department, a total of 3,796 schools have been made
functional as a result of the re-deployment and recruitment exercise.
11.   Strengthening Public-Private Partnerships: Several actions are underway to for promoting
public-private partnership, including: a) leasing school buildings to the private/NGO sector including the
buildings constructed under the MNA/MPA scheme are also being offered to the private/NGO sector for
purchase or lease; b). Under the Adopt-a-School Program of Sindh Education Foundation about 211
schools have been adopted by private/NGO sector; c) PTAs (renamed as School Management
Committees) have been reconstituted and their role reformulated to strengthen their ability to monitor
teacher attendance and student enrollment; and d) the Department has started the process of "de-
nationalization" of institutions that were nationalized in 1972, by offering them back to the original
owners. About 165 institutions have already been returned to their original owners, while about 400 such
institutions remain to be handed over.
12.   Improving Governance & Monitoring & Evaluation: To introduce greater accountability and
better performance, new teacher recruitments will now be facility specific and contract based. A total of
3000 facility-specific and contract-based teachers (700 female) have already been recruited. For the first
time, the private sector was inducted in carrying out competency tests and interviews. There have to date
been no public complaints of mis-govemance in this process. These teachers have been hired on three-
year school specific contracts. As a result of these recruitments, 1,397 schools have been made
functional. Actions have been taken to improve teacher attendance and based on field visit reports major
penalties have been levied on 174 teachers, minor penalties on 93 teachers, and 179 cases are under
process.
13.   Data has been collected for the 2001 Annual School Census by SEMIS. This census also
includes comprehensive information on human resource base (teachers) and private/NGO education
facilities for the first time. The Research, Monitoring & Evaluation Cell of the Department has initiated a
system of monitoring schools through field visits using well-developed tools to document the monitoring.
Through this effort, monitoring reports have been prepared for four talukas in four districts. These
reports monitor teacher attendance, student enrollment, and field verification of functioning of schools.
These reports provide useful information and recommendations including assessment of viability of
closed schools (if any) in the areas monitored by the teams. The Department has made efforts to
collaborate with district nazims/naib nazims through facilitation of meetings, development of a manual,
and awareness campaigns for clarifying the functions and responsibilities of the district education staff,
and how to access funds: The Department also involved the nazims/naib nazims in the SEMIS annual
school census. The World Bank is working with the Department of Education to support the third party
validation survey to assess on the ground improvements at the school level, based on the reform measures
initiated by the Government.
Medium Term Reform Plan
14.   The medium term measures for implementing the reform plan are focused on completing the
actions on the above-mentioned areas for increasing access, improving quality, consolidating the physical
and human resource base, strengthening public-private partnerships, and improving governance. The
Government also expects that education outcomes and quality of delivery will improve with full fiscal
and administrative decentralization. Key medium term targets are as follows:



Annex G
Page 4 of 11
* Enrollment to be increased (from current approx. 60% of 5-9 years enrolled, to 82% by 2005).
Out of school children to be reduced from 2.2 million to 1.1 million by 2005.
* All schools to have SMCs by 2003.
* All closed schools to be made functional by 2004 (1,858 remaining that will be made functional).
* 12,000 currently untrained teachers to be trained by 2004.
* All primary students to be provided free textbooks in the 2003 school year onwards.
* 3,100 (out of a total of 13,537 schools) shelterless schools to be provided with physical facilities
by 2006.
* 20% of schools with missing basic facilities will be provided with missing facilities (toilets,
water, boundary walls) by 2006.
* Free & Compulsory Primary Education coverage in 15 talukas and 5 Karachi districts in FY02
(done); 40 talukas in FY03; and 42 talukas in FY04 (covering all 102 talukas by end FY04).
15.   To achieve these targets, in the medium term (FY03 and FY04) the reform plan is focused on the
following areas:
Improving Access
16.   The teacher redeployment exercise will be completed by FY04 with teacher student ratios
maintained for all primary school. The viability of the 1828 closed schools will be determined through
field surveys, and resources including sanctioned teacher posts would be provided to those that are viable.
By end FY04, all viable schools on the books of the Department would be functional either through
teacher recruitment or rationalization. The Government plans to provide missing facilities (boundary
walls, water, and toilets) to at least 20% of needy schools covering 820 schools each year from FY02-
FY06. Two enrollment drives are planned to be conducted each year, one in September and the second in
April, with systems established to monitor retention of newly enrolled pupils. The free textbook program
will continue to be implemented through adequate resource allocation and timely publishing and
distribution of textbooks to schools. The Government plans to implement the compulsory free education
program in 60 talukas by FY03, and in all 102 talukas by FY04. Through these initiatives, the GoS'
target is that out of officially estimated 2.2 m out-of-school children (40% of the primary age cohort), 1
m children will be in schools by FY04. The Government will also develop an action plan for improving
the secondary education system, in line with the provincial education sector strategy.
Improving Quality of Service Delivery
17.   The teacher training programs to enhance teaching competency would be continued as per
training schedule; and the first provincial student assessment to measure learning achievements will be
initiated in FY03, as per the approved program.
Strengthening Public-Private Partnerships
18.   The restructured and reconstituted School Management Committees are expected to play a role in
monitoring school affairs, including teacher attendance. In addition, the SMCs will be responsible for
managing the non-salary school budget for minor repairs and classroom consumables. The district
governments would be encouraged to provide, on a pilot basis, teacher hiring and firing powers to the
SMCs. In addition, non salary funds for minor school repairs and class room consumables will be
provided to the SMCs and will used by the SMCs to meet the needs of the schools. Public private
partnership will be strengthened through an expansion of the of the adopt-a-school program and other
initiatives of the Sindh Education Foundation, with provision of necessary funds. The Sindh Education
Foundation will be engaged for assisting in conducting teacher training programs and training programs
for SMCs (additional budgetary allocations for SEF would be needed to conduct these activities).



Annex G
Page 5ofl1
Monitoring and Evaluation
19.   The administrative monitoring would be continued through the R,M&E Cell in the Department
and provide financing in the budget after FY02. The first round of third party community feedback survey
will be initiated in FY02, and the second round in the third quarter of FY03.
20.    A capacity building program will be initiated for district and below officials for monitoring
service delivery improvements. In line with this, existing district specific baseline data will be validated
and district specific baseline outcome indicators will be agreed (for annual monitoring) to assess changes
such as enrollments, retention, drop out rates and completion rates, in line with the IPRSP outcome
indicators. An awareness building action plan will be developed to disseminate the sector policy and
reform program to district, and taluka nazims.
Financing
21.    The level and composition of the education budget will need to be in line with the activities
reflected under the education reform program and the annual targets. Under the medium term-fiscal
restructuring plan, the non-salary budget will be significantly enhanced to adequately finance the work
program, and for reform activities such as: policy of free textbooks (for both boys and girls), monitoring
activities, public-private partnerships, and financing of training programs, etc.
Challenges for the Medium Term
22.    The Sindh reform program is rightly focused on increasing primary level enrollment and retention
of students through a range of reform interventions, with a special focus on governance improvements.
Main challenges are highlighted below:
a)     A key challenge will be to maintain the reform focus and momentum through the district
governments. GoS will need to initiate an awareness program for district and below elected and
administrative officials to foster ownership for the reform agenda. In addition, a public
awareness campaign for promotion of quality' primary education needs to be initiated. While
some work began this year through the print media and through public rallies in the districts, a
structured program involving the electronic media needs to be prepared.
b)     As fiscal decentralization begins from FY03, a streamlined system for transfer of funds to the
district governments will need to be put in place. An important challenge will be for the district
governments to maintain the financing for important activities such as free textbooks, non salary
budgets for schools, scholarships for girls, missing facilities in existing functional schools, and
resources for making closed schools functional. A system to provide incentives to districts for
service delivery and performance improvements will be helpful to maintain the focus on the
reform agenda.
c)     Existing planning, management and monitoring capacity at the district level and below is weak
and the DoE will need to assist districts in developing capacity building programs so that the
promised education outcomes indeed happen. Some of the weaker districts, and districts with
poorer outcomes, may require technical assistance to improve their performance. In addition, the
districts would need assistance in monitoring quarterly expenditures as well as their intermediate
indicators and outcome indicators, in line with the requirements of the IPRSP. The provincial
government's role for information collation will be important in this respect. This is an area
where further work is needed.



Annex G
Page 6 of II
d)     While public private partnerships is a pillar of the reform agenda, and specific steps are
underway, further work is needed to strengthen this partnerships by building mutual trust and
confidence including finalization of a policy on private education in full consultation with
stakeholders in the private sector.
e)     As district governments take charge of education services, they would need assistance in
developing systems to measure service delivery and outcome improvements, including the
development and use of a comprehensive district level database that captures all providers at all
levels for facilitating planning, monitoring and evaluation.
f)     The GoS' strategy for increasing enrollment and retention through enrollment drives and
implementation of compulsory primary education program is headed in the right direction.
However, the ambitious targets can only be met if these measures lead to increasing public
confidence in service delivery. While this remains a challenge, it can happen if there are visible
and simple service delivery improvements that parents and children can relate to. These include
improved teacher attendance in schools, improved teacher competency, provision of minor
resources for providing important missing facilities to schools, and timely availability of teaching
materials and textbooks.
Health Sector: Reforms and Challenges
Background
23.    The health and fertility outcomes in Sindh have improved in 1990's, but, the progress has been
slow with significant disparities between urban and rural areas. The infant mortality declined from
124/1000 to 95/1000 live births and total fertility has declined from about 5.9 to 5 during the 1990's. The
intermediate health indicators are either deteriorating or leveling off. The immunization coverage of
children 12-23 months remains low at about 48%, and appears to have declined in rural areas. The tetanus
vaccination of pregnant women has improved to 48%. The proportion of deliveries assisted by trained
personnel is low at 28%. The CPR has improved from 8% to 17% during the 1990's with very low
prevalence of 7% in rural areas. Preventable causes of mortality and morbidity due to communicable
diseases and maternal and peri-natal illnesses; nutritional disorders continue to affect children and women
of reproductive age.
Key issues facing the Health Sector
24.    The slow progress in improving health outcomes and deteriorating intermediate indicators can be
partially attributed to external factors including increasing levels of poverty, illiteracy, lack of access to
safe drinking water and inadequate sanitation. However, factors internal to the health sector contribute
significantly to the slow progress. The key issues contributing to this include:
*  Lack of clear outcome focused health strategy;
*  Little emphasis to address nutrition problems and lack of clear strategic vision;
*  Low immunization coverage of children and pregnant women due to restricted mobility of
vaccinators, shortage and inappropriate postings of vaccinators;
*  Increasing burden of TB due to poor compliance with TB treatment and low coverage of TB
control using the DOTS strategy;
*  Issues of governance including staff absenteeism; excessive transfers and lack of-transparency in
procurement;
*  Limited management capacity at the district level;
*  Low utilization of primary health care facilities and uneven quality of services;



Annex G
Page 7 of 11
* Inadequate participation of NGO/private sector;
* Continued expenditures on infrastructure development of primary health care facilities and;
* Low non-salary allocations.
Government's Reform Objectives and Strategy
25.    The Government of Sindh (GoS) is cognizant of the slow progress in improving health outcomes
and uneven quality of public health services. The substantial reform program being implemented by GoS
focuses on improving public service delivery in social sectors. In the health sector, these reforms are
reflected in the National Health Policy 2001 Implementation Plan; and Restructuring & Reorganization of
Health Department, Devolution of Powers and Responsibility to the District Level. Sindh is the first
province to translate national priorities outlined in 2001 National Health Policy into an
action/implementation plan. The GoS's reform program aims to achieve the following results in medium
term:
*  An increase in immunization coverage of children 12-23 months from 38% to 80% by 2005
*  No case of Polio reported after December 2002
*  An increase in immunization coverage of two doses of TT from 28% to 80% by 2005
*  An increase in population with access to TB Control using DOTS strategy from 8% to 100% by
2003
*  Detect 70% of sputum positive TB cases and successfully treat 85% of them in areas covered by
DOTS strategy;
*  Adequate capacity of district health system specifically for management, planning, and financial
management
26.    The above targets would be achieved by implementing programmatic and organizational reforms,
including strengthening of immunization and TB programs; improving governance including building
district capacity in line with devolution initiative; strengthening monitoring and evaluation and promoting
public private partnerships. In addition, the Government is making an effort to improve availability of
female health staff particularly LHVs and nurses to strengthen maternal health services and improving
quality of hospital care.
Implementation of Reforms
27.    The Department of Health has taken a number of actions to implement the reforms, focusing on
improving health sector governance and organizing the health sector for devolution. Overall the strategic
direction of the reforms especially the focus on governance is appropriate. The progress to dates
includes:
(i)   Health Sector Strategy Note. Sindh is the first province to translate the 2001 National
Health Policy into a strategy note and an implementation plan. This is consistent with national
priorities and local disease burden. Although, degree of specificity and detail varies, but it
outlines the DoH's continued emphasis on priority preventive programs. The strategy note is non-
specific how to make health services more pro-poor and outlining strategy to address nutrition
problems of women and children.
(ii)  Strengthening Immunization and TB Programs. The Department has taken a number
of steps to improve immunization and TB DOTS coverage. This includes including strengthening
of EPI and TB Directorate to improve monitoring, introduction of Hepatitis B vaccination;
undertake supplementary TY campaign in high-risk areas and measures to reallocate vaccinators
to uncovered areas in two districts; and approval of new project of Rs 621 million for



Annex G
Page 8 of 11
strengthening immunization program with detailed district micro-plans.  The numbers of
confirmed Polio cases have decreased from 65 in 2000 to 23 (October) in 2001. The recent third
party assessment indicates that immunization coverage of children 12-23 months and pregnant
women have increased to 48% (increasing from 1998/99 PIHS 38% and 40% respectively). There
is still wide variation among districts (range 16% to 70%), with all rural districts having coverage
less than 40% coverage. In TB, good progress has been made in expanding DOTS strategy to five
districts. The coverage has increased from 8% to 31% with case detection rate of 80% and a cure
rate of 75%. The program is on track to expand to 10 districts by end of FY02.
(iii)  Improving Health Sector Governance. The actions to improve govemance include: a)
implementation of transparent transfers and posting policy including cancellation of detailment
and posting against higher grade posts; b) reduce staff absenteeism by vigilant departmental
committees and army monitoring - more than 300 doctors have been dismissed from service; c)
Reconciliation of posts to determine strength and requirements of various cadre and development
of seniority lists staff to maintain merit in postings and promotions; d) improving transparency in
procurement by operationalizing various committee's to scrutinize the process at various stages of
procurement. There are indications that availability of staff in un-served areas has improved and
staff absenteeism reduced, however, no reliable data is available.
(iv)   The Department of health is being restructured in line with the Devolution Initiative,
which is the core organizational reform being implemented across the country. The Department
has made good progress in outlining provincial and district roles and responsibilities and
developing new management and organizational structures. Drawing and Disbursement powers
have been devolved to District Managers and administrative powers are being finalized. The
organizational restructuring of Karachi City with merger of Department's of Health of Karachi
Municipal Corporation, District Municipal Corporation, District Council and DoH has been
completed. Intemal Teadjustment to fill new posts created at the district level is in process. Three
posts of Accounts Officer, Audit Officer and Planning and Development Officer critical for
improving capacity of district management are being created as the first step to create
management capacity at the district level. Actual plans to further develop capacity of local
governments to effectively manage are being developed.
(v)    Enhancing Monitoring and Evaluation. There is an effort to strengthen monitoring and
evaluation systems for self-monitoring and making itself accountable to the community. The EPI
and TB Directorate have been strengthened by internal readjustment. The TB Directorate has
introduced quarterly monitoring and reporting system using WHO-adapted instruments, with
almost 100% reporting.  The immunization program has introduced third party coverage
assessment, which would be annually undertaken as part of the GAVI assisted program. In
addition, the DoH has outlined a set of fifteen indicators to measure performance. The DoH is
now preparing a plan for carrying out third-party led district level household survey and
validation of departmental information to measure the following variables. The process needs to
be linked to wider monitoring and evaluation system being developed in the context of PRSP.
Variables to be Tracked In Third Party Surveys with Urban-Rural and Gender Breakdown
Infant Mortality Rate
Immunization covdrage of Children 12-23 month
TT Coverage of pregnant women
Contraceptive prevalence rate
Use of modem contraceptive by source
Percentage of deliveries assisted by skilled birth attendants (doctors, Lady Health Visitors, Nurses)
Percentage of pregnant women attending antenatal clinics
Percentage of population using public/private services in last year
| Percentage of population dissatisfied with public services.



Annex G
Page 9 of 11
(vi)   Promoting public-private partnerships. To promote public private partnerships, the
DoH is planning a detailed review (using third party) to assess feasibility of large number of
facilities, which could be operationalized. The DoH is exploring options to contract out these
facilities to NGOs and private sector. The newly developed Trauma Center in Karachi is being
privatized through Privatization Commission. The DoH has already invited expression of interest
from the private sector to operationalize these facilities to improve access to basic services.
(vii)  Increasing resource allocation for health: The FY02 current budget allocations have
been increased by 16% increase over FY01 expenditures. On the development side, the GoS has
ensured adequate allocations for priority preventive programs in line with program requirements
in FY02.
28.   In addition to the above reforms, the DoH is strengthening other critical areas in the health sector.
These include: a) implementation of the Women Health Project in four districts in order to improve
essential and emergency obstetrical care; b) Expanded HIV/AIDS program targeting vulnerable
populations through non-govemmental organizations and behavior change strategy (part of expanded
national response to HIV/AIDS) has been developed; c) reducing expenditures on infrastructure
development of primary health care facilities.
Medium Term Reform Plans
29.    The medium term reform plans aim to further deepen the above reforms. In addition, the GoS is
developing plans to improve quality of hospital care and increase resource allocation for the health sector.
There is a strong commitment of the GoS to implement these reforms as indicated by actions already
taken specifically actions related to govemance. It is envisaged that with decentralized administrative and
financial powers to districts and streamlining of financial flows, effective implementation can drastically
improve health outcomes in Sindh. The focus of reforms in the medium terms is on the following:
(i)   Strengthening the Routine Immunization Program. The DoH plans to revitalize immunization
program, aiming to increase immunization coverage of children and pregnant women through
strengthening of program with GAVI support. The strategies include: (i) expanding the coverage
of Hepatitis B vaccination; (ii) strengthening of the routine program with GAVI assistance; and
(iii) supplementary TT immunization campaigns. The key activities include: a) improve
mobility of vaccinators; b) recruit additional vaccinators on contract basis; c) increase TA/DA
of vaccinators; d) improving cold chain; and e) expand EPI centers in public and private sector.
(ii)  Expanding TB DOTS Program. The phased expansion aims to cover the whole province by
2003, from present DOTS coverage of 31%. The objectives are to detect 70% of sputum
positive cases and successfully treat 85% of them. The strategies includes: a) strengthening
capacity of Provincial TB Directorate for monitoring and supervision; b) development of
referral laboratory; c) introduce DOTS strategy in private and NGO sector in Karachi city; e)
acquire support from Global Drug Fund for TB DOTS.
(iii) Strengthening local government capacity by implementing detailed plans for capacity
development for district managers in management, planning, and financial management.
Strengthening local government capacity includes building capacity in management, planning
and accounting; training of District health management teams, preparation of comprehensive
district health profiles as a basis for identifying priority health problems and interventions, and
the development of district health plans. The draft plans are at an early stage of development
and need detail work including costing of interventions.



Annex G
Page 10 of ))
(iv)   Broadening public-private partnership under the newly issued strategy. The medium term
plans include development of explicit policy guidelines for public private partnership and
contracting procedures. The GoS envisages that enhanced public-private partnership would
increase access to basic health care. The GOS plans also include increasing access to
immunization services in the private sector and introduction of TB DOTS strategy in NGO and
private sector health care in major.
(v)    Further strengthening monitoring and evaluation systems. The department has also outlined a
set of fifteen indicators to measure its performance of the sector. This includes strengthening
Monitoring and Evaluation unit (Planning Cell) at the provincial level; development of
community management boards and team, strengthening health management information
systems; and conducting annual district level household surveys plans. The plans need to be
further detailed out including financing arrangements.
The Challenges Ahead
30.    The Sindh government's medium term plans are rightly focused on key public health priorities
especially on key prevention programs in the area of immunization, reproductive health, child health, and
communicable disease control. The programmatic priorities being implemented include updated
strategies against Tuberculosis, introduction of Hepatitis B vaccination, improving essential and
emergency obstetrical care for women and working with vulnerable population to prevent an HIV/AIDS
epidemic. The management reforms in the context of devolution also have the potential to improve
governance and service delivery with increased accountability to local communities, if effectively
implemented. However, there are gaps and some critical areas that will need to be addressed in the
medium-term. These include:
(i) In critical areas of refonns like development of public-private partnerships, strengthening of
district capacity; and improving reproductive health care strategies are emerging. However, plans
are inadequate and need to be further developed.
(ii) It is essential to develop strategic direction in three critical areas: a) nutritional problems of
women and children; b) health awareness and behavior change; c) human resource development.
These areas have traditionally been weak with inadequate attention to look into constraints, which
reduce effectiveness of interventions. The health sector would need technical assistance for in-
depth constraint analysis and development of high-quality interventions. In nutrition, Sindh could
start with few critical interventions and build upon them: a) 100% iodization of salt; b) behavior
change communication to change feeding practices especially of pregnant and lactating women.
The GoS should also consider phased introduction of Integrated Management of Childhood
Illnesses, an established strategy that would help reduce infant and child mortality.
(iii)The GoS plans to improve quality of hospital care through hospital up-gradation program. The
draft plan is not specific and appears to be rather input oriented plan. It is not clear what health
needs and the extensive up-gradation program would address outcomes. The program should
focus on key areas like improving 24 hour emergency obstetrical care, child care and emergency
care for accidents and injuries, which would reduce child and maternal mortality and mortality
due to accidents.
(iv) Inadequate managerial capacity at the district level is a key challenge for the DoH. Failure to
enhance capacity of the local government for effective implementation may lead to further
deterioration in health outcomes. The DoH has outlined broad areas of capacity building
including: development of policy guidelines, training in procurement and financial management;
strengthening use of information and PC I preparation. The plans are at present are broad and



Annex G
Page 11 ofJI
detail micro-plans including cost estimates need to be worked out. This should also include
developing mechanisms to ensure availability of technical assistance to poorly performing
districts.
31.   In the context of the devolution, it is imperative that District Governments continue to give
priority to services that are cost-effective with the greatest potential for improving health outcomes e.g.
immunization, family planning etc. This would require close oversight by the provincial government.
This should be linked to monitoring system measuring performance of the districts. The districts need to
be assisted to make appropriate changes if results are not being achieved. Key areas to monitor include
intermediate health outcomes, quality of health care, people's satisfaction and access of the poor to
services. The data gathering and analysis system should disseminate the information to all stakeholders.



Annex H
Page I of 2
ANNEX H: REGULATORY REFORMS AND PRIVATIZATION
Table 1: Pre-Reform List Inspections Faced by Industry and Various Laws
Name of the Act                        Frequency of Visits             Concerned Dept.
1 Factories Act 1934                          Once a year                                  Labor
2 Employment of Children Act 1994             Once a year or on complaint from union       Labor
or individual
3 Employment Cost of Living Act, 1973         Once a Year or on receipt of complaint       Labor
4 Disabled Person Employment & Rehab. Ord. 1981  Once a Year or on receipt of complaint    Labor
5 Sindh Factories Adult Exemption Rules, 1990  With application and granting of exemption  Labor
6 Standing Orders Ordinance, 1966             Once a year                                  Labor
7 West Pakistan Maternity Benefit Rules, 1961  Whenever the rules are applicable            Labor
8 Minimum Wages Ordinance, 1961               On receipt of complaint                      Labor
9 Payment of Wages Act, 1936                  Once a Year or on receipt of complaint       Labor
10 Industrial Relations Ordinance, 1969        Once a Year or on receipt of complaint       Labor
11 Factories (Record of Services) Act, 1934    Once a year                                  Labor
12 Certifying Surgeon                          Twice a year                                 Labor
13 Health and Hazards Inspector                Once a year                                  Labor
14 Shop and Establishment Inspector            Once a year                                  Labor
15 Weight and Measures Inspector               Once a year                          Agri. & Bureau of Prices
16 Minimum Wage Inspection Inspector           Once a year                                  Labor
17 Apprenticeship under Apprenticeship Ord., 1962  Once a year                              Labor
18 Sindh Employees Social Security Institution  Once a year                                 Labor
19 Employment and Exchange Inspector           Once a year                                  Labor
20 Inspection under the Stamp Act, 1890        Once a year                             Board of Revenue
21 Civil Defence Inspection under Factories Act, 1934 Once a year                         Home Dept.
22 Inspection of Boiler under Boiler Act 1975  Once a year (for fitness); & on request     Industries
For new registr.
23 The Electricity Act, 1917 & Rules 1937      Once a year                                 Industries
Table 2: Revised List of Inspections Under the Sindh Reform Program
Inspection/Survey        Frequency of Visit      Depart. Concerned        Stream-lining
1) Factories Act 1934    Once a year             Directorate of Labor     These shall be lumped
insPection)                                                              together once a year
2) Health & Hazard                -do-                    -do-
(Inspection)
3) Shops &                        -do-                    -do-
Establishment
(Inspection)
4) Sind Employees                 -do-                   SESSI
Social Security
Institution Ordinance,
1961
5) Minimum Wage                   -do-            Chairman M.W Board      These shall be lumped
Board                                                                     together once a year
6) Apprenticeship                 -do-                Directorate of
Ordinance 1962                                       Manpower and
(Inspection)                                            Training
7) Employment                     -do-                    -do-
Exchange (Survey)



Annex H
Page 2 of 2
Table 3. List of Assets to Be Privatized and Their Timetable
List of Assets to be Privatized by December 2002
Enterprises
Dadu Sugar Mill
Thatta Sugar Mill
Sindh Tourism Development Corp
KMC Abbatoir
Lands
Trauma Center at University Road
Stationary Department Hyderabad
Forest Dept -lands
Police Dept lands
SRTC
C and W Assets
Silos
Agricultural Lands
BOR Land
Vocational Training Land
To Be Privatized or Concessioned by December 2003
Large Enterprises
KWSB Waste Water Plants (3)
Other Assets
Schools, colleges
Water distribution - Landhi, Korangi
Basic Health Units
Thar Coal Fields
Source: Sindh Privatization Commission



Annex I
Page I of 15
Annex I: Statistical Annex
Table of Contents
Table 1. Pakistan: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators, 1998/99-2003/04
Table 2: Sindh at a glance
Table 3: Sindh: Key Social & Economic Indicators
Table 4: Sindh GDP at current prices
Table 5: Sindh GDP at current prices (% shares)
Table 6: Sindh GDP at constant prices
Table 7: Sindh: Public Finances, 1999/00-2001/02
Table 8: Sindh: Agriculture Sector
Table 9: Sindh: Manufacturing Industrial Production and Employment
Table 10: Sindh: Census of Manufacturing Industries, 1995-96
Table 11: Sindh: Education Sector, 1998-99
Table 12: Sindh: Health Sector, 1999-2000
Table 13: Sindh: Transport, Communication, Electricity and Mining
Table 14: Sindh: Electricity and Natural Gas Consumption, 1999-00



Page2of]i
Table 1. Pakistan: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators, 1998/99-2003/04
Projections
1998/°9  1999/00    20/01      2001/02  2002/03   2003/04
Output and prices                                             (Annual changms in percent)
Real GODP at factor costs                            4.2     3.9         2.7        3.3      4.7       5.2
RFsalODPatnmarketppris                               3.7     4.4         3.4        3.4      5.2       5.5
Partnercountrydemend                                 2.7     4.0         3.2        1 5      2.5       3.8
Consumer prces (p.a.)                                5.7     3.6         4.4        3.0      3 9       4.0
Consumer prices (o.o.p.)                             3.7     5.1         2.5        3 5      4.0       4.0
Pupoespr U.S. dollar (p.a)                          17.0      3.0       128         6.1
Savings and Investment                                                 (In percent of GDP)
Gross national savings                              119      13.5       12.8       15.4     15.4      15.8
Government                                       -3.0     -3.6       -1.8        0.2      0.8        1.4
Non-governrent I/                                15.0     17.2       14.6       15.2     14.6       14.3
ross capitalforrnation                              15.6     15.6       14.7       15.2     16.6      17.5
Government                                        3.7      3.2        2.7        3.4      3.6        3.9
Non-government 1/                                11.9     12.4        120       11.8  *  13.0       13.6
Public financs                                                          (In percent of ODP)
Budgetaryrevenuo(0xcludinggrants)                   16.2     16.5       15.7       16.9     17.3       17.3
Budgetary expenditure                               22       23.0       21.0       22.7     21.5       20.6
Budgstuy balance (excluding gants)                  -6.0     -6.5       -5.3       -5.7      4.2       -3.3
Primnaybalanco                                       1.3      1.1        1.5        1.2      2.1        2.4
Netpubliodebt2/                                     93.6     91.6      100.9       94.2     90.5       83.6
Not domestic public debt 3/                         42.3     429        43.1       41.9     38.4       35.1
Implicit intertsrataonpublicdebt (perent)4/          8.9      8.8        8.1        7.3      7.3        6.9
Monetary sector                                        (Annual changes in percent of initial stock of broad maney)
Net foreign assets                                   1.6      2.0        5.2        3 3       ...       ...
Net doosatic assets                                  4.5      7.4        3.8        5.8
Of whkch: credit to theprivatesector                 85      1.4         3.4       5.2
Of which: net credit to govecrnent                  -3.8     6.1        -3.3      -2.1
Broad noney                                          6.2      9.4        9.0        9.1
6-monthtrewsurybiUraw (inpaocent,pa)                13.1      86        10.4                  ...       ...
External sector                                                         (In percont of CiDP)
M    rchaudise trade balance                        -3.6     -2.3        -2.1      -1.4     -1.5       -1.3
Merchaidise exporta                              12.8     13.3        15.0       14.9     15.4      15.8
Merchandisei npxrts                               16.4    15.6        17.1      16.4      16.9      17.1
Current account excluding official transfers        -4.6     -3.6        -3.3      -2 3      -2.7      -2.1
Current account including official transfere        -3.6     -2.1        -1.9       0.2     -1.2       -1.7
(In percent of exports of goods and services)
External public and publicly gusrated debt         328.1    307.0      302.4      294.1    280.5      259.1
Debtservice5/                                    41.7     38.9        32.5      33.9      304       26.8
Irnplicit interest rate (in percent) 6/           4.0      4.5         4.2       4.3       4.5       4.3
Gross reseavs (nilliums of U.S. dollars) 7/        1,672     908       1,681      2,317    3,423      4,208
In weeks of next years' inports of goods and services  7.7  3.9        7.5       9.6      13.4      15.7
In percent of short-tneextemnl debt 8/           35.2     19.2        63.8      73.0     108.7     140.7
Memorandum Items:
ICOR, 3-year  vmong avsange                          4.5      4.7        4.8        4.5       3.6       3.2
Real effective exchange rate (percentage change)    -9.1     -0.6       -2.6       -1.6      -2.0      -2.0
Ternoftrade(percentagechange)                        4.1     -9.2       -1.6        0.3       3.0       2.6
Realper-capita ODP (pcentageochange)                 1.3      2.1         1.1        1.1      2.9       3.1
GODP at markdet pnc  (PR billion)                  2,938    3,183      3,472      3,695    4,042      4,433
Source: Data provided by the Pakistani authoities; Fund staff and World Economnic Outlook.
I/Includes public sector enterprises.
2/ Defined as the sum of not dcmestic public debt and external public and publicly guaranteed debt.
3/Including US. dolar bonds (except for the column Prog. 2001/02)
4/The implicit interest rato on public debt is calculated as interet paymnats in percent of tha end-of-period debt
stock of the provious year.
5/ Including interets n short-termn debt
6/ Tho iplicit interest rate on external public debt is calculated as interest payments in percen of the averge
stock of dobt of the current and previous fiscal year.
7/ Excluding gld, foreign assets relating to foreign curency depositb contracted after May 1998 (FB25s), and short-term
foreign exchange swaps and outright forward sales by the SBP.
8/ Data on shoit-tesn external debt includes public and private short-term at orignal matruity and aniortization paymnmts on
public nidiu and long-tenn debt of tho following year.



AnnexI
Page 3 of15
Table 2: Sindh at a glance
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Sindh    Pakistan                     Population Growth Rate
Population, 2001 (million)                                              34         141             3.50 -   (annual average growth)
GSDP/GDP per capita, 2001 (USS)                                        453         421             3 00 -
Average annual growth, 1991-99                                                                     2.50 -    _
Population (%)                                                          2.9        2.5             2.00 --
1.50 --
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1990)                                            1.00 -.
Poverty (% of population below poverty line) GOI estimate               29          33             030 .0
Rural                                                                  37          36             0.00
Urban                                                                  19          24                    1992       1996      2001
Urban population (% of total population)                                49          36
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                                87          83                       =Sidh      +- PaPs *tn
Literate population (% of total population)                             49          43            _
Male                                                                   64          58
Female                                                                 32          27
Not Primary EnrollmentRatio (%)                                         47          51
Male                                                                   55          57
Female                                                                 39          44
STRUCTURE of the STATE ECONOMY
91-95     95-99     1999        2000      2001           Growth rate of output(%)
(% of GPDP)
Agriculture                                        22.5      24.1      25.1        24.5      23.2
Industry                                           26.9      25.0      24.5        24.2     23.9  8.0
Manufactuing                                      17.8      15.4     14.8        14.3      14.7
Services                                           50.6      50.9      50.4       51.3      52.9  6.0 -
(compound annual real growth)                                                                      4 0 -
Agriculture                                         3.9       3.8       2.1         7.0      -3.1
Industry                                            2.3       2.1      -1.5         1.3       3.7  20
Manufacturing                                      0.1      2.0      -2.0        -0.2       7.0
Services                                            3.7       1.6       7.4         4.8       6.5  D.0
Gross Provincial Domestic Prodcuct                  2.7       2.2       3.7         4.4       3.4       "    "                      g 
GPDP per capita                                     0.3       0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0
ImplicitGPDPDeflator(%)                             11.2     10.0       3.3         3.1       5.3
STATE FINANCE
96-99     1998      1999        2000      2001            Gross Flscal Balance
(% of GPDP)                                                                                                     (% of GPDP)
TotalRevesue                                        6.1       5.4       5.0         6.7       6.9
States Own Revenue                                 1.4       1.9       1.2         1.5       1.6  0.9
Central Transfers                                  4.7       3.6       3.8         5.2       5.3  0.6 - -
0.4-
Total Expenditure                                   6.5       6.0       5.5         6.6       6.6  0.2 - -
Revenue Expenditure                                5.8       5.3       5.1         6.1       6.0  00o-
Intrestpayment&debtservicing                      1.3       1.5       1.3         1.4       1.1 -0.4  W     0     0 ° '  a0
Capital Expenditure (net)                          0.8       0.7       0.5         0.4       0.6  .
Revenue Deficit (-)/ Surplus(+)                     0.4       0.2      -0.1         0.6       0.9
Gross Fiscal Balance                                -0.4     -0.6      -0.5         0.2       0.3
GPDP estimates are based on Kaiser Bengali: "Regional Accounts of Pakistan 1991-1995", 1991 and then projected using all Pakistan sector growth rates
Sources: Govemment of Sindh; and Staff Estimates.                                                                                SASPR



Annex I
Page 4 of 15
Table 3: Sindh: Key Social & Economic Indicators
Years                     Earlier       Latest
Year         Year
Social Indicators
Education
Literacy ratio                                    1981 / 1998                    31           45
Male                                                                           40           55
Female                                                                         22           35
Primary Enrollment Rate                           1971-72 / 1998-99              39           66
Health (per "10,000" persons)                      1987 / 1998
Doctors (MBBS)                                                                  1.6          2.9
Nurses                                                                          0.7          0.9
Para Medical Staff                                                              3.5          3.2
BEDS                                                                            7.0          7.7
Population (in million)                            1981 / 1998                   19.0         30.4
Rural                                                                           10.8         15.6
Urban                                                                            8.2         14.8
Density (persons per Sq. Krm.)                     1981 / 1998                   135          216
Area (in Sq. Krm.)                                                                         140,914
Aericulture Sector
Land use                                           1972/ 1998-99
Per capita cropped (in hectares)                                               0.23         0.14
Per capita cultivated (in hectares)                                            0.37         0.19
Area of Major Crops (in "000" hectares)            1972 /2000
Wheat                                                                           797         1120
Rice                                                                            688          686
Cotton                                                                          453          598
Production of major crops (in "000" M.Tons)        1972 / 2000
Wheat                                                                         1,137        2,595
Rice                                                                          1,159         1,911
Cotton Lint (in "000" bales)                                                  1,040        2,192
Infrastructure Sector
Roads (Per 100 sqkm of area)                       1970-71 / 1998-99
Pucca Road                                                                      2.8         14.6
Katcha Road                                                                     1.0          3.0
T.V Sets (per "000" households)                    1970-71 / 1998-99              29           179
Per capita electricity generation (in KWH)         1975-76 / 1998-99             212           616
Percapita Gas Consumption (in "000" cubic feet)    1975-76/ 1998-99               0.8          5.4
Source: Government of Sindh Web site.



AmexI
Pafe 5 of] 5
Table 4: Sindh GDP at current prices
1990/91  1991/92   1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96   1996/97  1997/98   1998/99  1999/00  2000/01
(s Mmilon)
Agriculture                             60801     76191    78079     95180   113593   129147   156383    178497   194440   204520    210779
Industry                                 79192    88657    97886    112827   123522   142062    163314   182913    190069  202178    217564
Mining and quanying                     2465     2731      3014     3579      3615     4521     4626     5467      5897     6774     8116
Manufacturing                          53610    57939     64427    74733     80824    86570   103311    112895   114565   119068   133585
Construction                           11651     13552    15609    17543     19611    22787    26408    29239     29170    32156    33017
Electricity, gas and water             11466     14435    14836    16972     19472    28184    28969    35312     40437    44180    42845
Services                                138890   162247   186697    214820   249953   286931   333111    362460   390530   427916    480383
Transport, storage & commun.           28630    38208     48440    52615     57701    64415    74601    85493     92395   101104   116819
Commerce                               48683    53106     58529    68929     82990    92474   101854    106182   115402   122640   136814
Financial Inst.                        12965     14541    16772    22325     25257    31424    37758     36149    39938    44241    49705
Ownership of dwellings                 11725    13677     15881    18350     21343    24588    28581    32706     36808    40222    43676
Public administration & defense        19359    20342     21085    21691     24703    30079    32046    34082     36759    42787    48020
Other services                         17528    22373     25990    30910     37959    43949    58271    67849     69229    76923    85349
GDP at factor cost                     278883    327095   362662    422827   487068   558139    652808   723870   775039   834614    908726
GDP at market prices (EstImte)         313338    367587   405421    470782   543026   606362    702779   781283   s32385   899971    988539
(USS mllion)
Agriculture                              2718      3066     3008      3156     3682     3875     4040      4166     3878     3960      3619
Industry                                  3540     3568     3771      3741     4004     4262      4219     4269      3791     3914     3735
Miningand quarying                       110       110      116      119       117      136      120       128      118      131      139
Manufacturing                           2397     2332      2482     2478      2620     2597     2669      2635     2285     2305     2293
Construction                             521      545       601      582       636      684      682       682      582      623      567
Electricity, gas and water               513      581       571      563       631      846      748       824      807      855      736
Services                                 6209      6529     7192      7123     8102     8609      8605     8459      7790     8285     8247
Transport, storage & commun.            1280     1538      1866     1745      1870     1933     1927      1995     1843     1957     2005
Commerce                                2176     2137      2255     2285      2690     2775     2631      2478     2302     2374     2349
Financial Inst.                          580      585       646      740       819      943      975       844      797      857       853
Ownership of dwellings                   524      550       612      608       692      738      738       763      734      779      750
Public administration & defense          865      819       812      719       801      902      828       795      733      828       824
Other services                           784      900      1001     1025      1230     1319     1505      1583     1381     1489     1465
GDP at fictor cost                       12467    13163    13970     14019    15787    16746     16864    16893     15460    16159    15600
Memo items
Pakistan's GDP (Rs. Million)           1020600  1211385   1341629  1573097  1882071  2120173   2428312  2677656   2938379 3182822   3472149
Pakistan's GDP (US$ Million)            45625     48748    51681     52158    61003    63612     62731    62489     58612    61623    59608
Pakistan GDPfc (Rs. Million)           908374   1077943  1200129   1412858  1688126  1951560   2255649  2480884   2735943  2951680  3191813
Pakistan GDPfc (US$ Million)            40608     43378    46230     46845    54717    58553     58270    57897     54574    57148    54795
ExchangeRate(Rs./US$)                    22.37    24.85     25.96    30.16     30.85    33.33    38.71     42.85    50.13    51.65     58.25
Note: Sindh data upto 1994/95 is from Kaiser Bengali (1997) op. cit, remaining years are projected using the Pakistan growth rates.
Source: World Bank StaffEstimates.



Page6 of JO
Table S: Sindh GDP at current prices (% shares)
1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995196  1996/97  1997/98  1999/99  1999/00  2000/01
(Share of SLndh GD)
Agrlcultture                      21.8     23.3     21.5     22.5     23.3    23.1     24.0     24.7     25.1    24.5     23.2
Industry                          28.4     27.1     27.0     26.7     25.4    25.5     25.0     25.3     24.5     24.2    23.9
Mining and quanying               0.9      0.8      0.8     0.8      0.7      0.8      0.7      0.8      0.8     0.8      0.9
Manufacbtzing                    19.2     17.7     17.8     17.7    16.6     15.5     15.8     15.6     14.8    14.3     14.7
Constuction                       4.2      4.1     4.3      4.1      4.0      4.1      4.0      4.0      3.8     3.9      3.6
Mlectricity, gas and water        4.1      4.4      4.1     4.0      4.0      5.0      4.4      4.9      5.2     5.3      4.7
Services                          49.8     49.6     51.5     50.8     51.3    51.4     51.0     50.1     50.4     51.3    52.9
Transport,storage&comimn.        10.3     11.7     13.4     12.4     11.8    11.5     11.4     11.8     11.9    12.1     12.9
Commerce                         17.5     16.2     16.1     16.3    17.0     16.6     15.6     14.7     14.9    14.7     15.1
Financil Inst                     4.6      4.4      4.6      5.3     5.2      5.6      5.8      5.0      5.2     5.3      5.5
Ownersbip of dwellings            4.2      4.2     4.4      4.3      4.4      4.4      4.4      4.5      4.7     4.8      4.8
Public administmtion & defesse    6.9      6.2      5.8      5.1     5.1      5.4      4.9      4.7      4.7     5.1      5.3
Other services                    6.3      6.8     7.2      7.3      7.8      7.9      8.9      9.4      8.9     9.2      9.4
GDP at actor cost                100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
(Share of Pakistan GDPfc)
Agriculture                       26.1     27.0     26.2     26.6     26.0    26.3     26.3     26.3     26.3     26.3     26.4
Industry                          33.8     32.3     32.3     32.1     29.9    30.5     31.2     31.0     29.3     30.1     29.2
Manufactuing                     33.8     31.0     31.1     30.2     28.0    28.0     29.2     28.7     27.1    26.6     27.2
Senices                           31.5     31.1     31.2     30.6     29.9    29.5     30.0     29.9     29.0     28.5    29.5
GDP at factor cost                30.7     30.3     30.2     29.9     28.9    28.6     28.9     29.2     28.3     28.3     28.5
Note: Sindh data upto 1994/95 is f*om Kaiser Bengali (1994) paper cited in Table 2; remaining years are projected using the Pakistan growth iats.
Source: World Bank Staff Estimates.



Annex I
Page 7 of 15
Table 6: Sindh GDP at constant prices
1990/91  1991192  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01
(Rs. Mtilon)
Agriculture                      29873    33843    31145    33U2    34795    39084    39195    41032    41900   44846    43437
Industry                         37443    38035    40200    41665   41081    42884    43905    46204    45507   46093    47797
Min*ng and quarryng
Manufacturing                   26025   25340    26839    27328    26094   26838    28034    29460    28879    28820   30852
Construction                    5635     6052     6487     6680     6834    7066     7202     7353     7047    7471     7444
Electricity, gas and water      5783     6643     6874     7657     8152    8981     8669     9391     9581    9801     9501
Services                         69043    73096    76056   77485    79966    84412    86483    85789    92856   96333   100817
Transport, storage & commun.    15738    17859   19121    18391    18543    18969   19456    20619    21644    21575   22857
Commerco                       23500    23493    24293    25052    26448   26636    26580    27081    27170    27061   28088
Financial Inst                  4766     4904     5238     5972     6349    7229     8013     6180     6723     7706    7886
Ownership & Dwel1+Other services  25038  26840   27403    28070    28626   31579    32434    31908    37319    39990   41986
GDP at factor cost              136359   144973   147401   152392  155842   166381   169584   173025   180264  187272   192051
(% annual growth)
Agriculture                                13.3     -8.0      6.7      4.7    12.3      0.3      4.7      2.1     7.0     -3.1
Industry                                    1.6      5.7      3.6     -1.4     4.4      2.4      5.2     -1.5      1.3     3.7
Mining and quarying
Manufactming                              -2.6      5.9      1.8    -4.5      2.8      4.5      5.1     -2.0    -0.2      7.0
Construction                               7.4      7.2      3.0     2.3      3.4      1.9      2.1     *4.2     6.0     -0.4
Electricity, gas and water                14.9      3.5     11.4     6.5     10.2     -3.5      8.3      2.0     2.3     -3.1
Services                                    5.9      4.0      1.9      3.2     5.6      2.5     -0.8      8.2     3.7      4.7
Transport, storage & commun.              13.5      7.1     -3.8     0.8      2.3      2.6      6.0      5.0    -0.3      5.9
Commerce                                   0.0      3.4      3.1     5.6      0.7     -0.2      1.9      0.3     -0.4     3.8
Financial Inst                             2.9      6.8     14.0     6.3     13.9     10.9    -22.9      8.8    14.6      2.3
Ownership & Dwell+Other services           7.2      2.1      2.4     2.0     10.3      2.7     -1.6     17.0     7.2      5.0
GDP at factor cost                          6.3      1.7      3.4      2.3     6.8      1.9      2.0      4.2      3.9     2.6
Memo Item
Pakistan's GDP (Rs. Million)    499960   539131   549455   570859   600086  623227   629550   645605   669235  698902   722877
Pakistan's GDP (% annual growth)            7.8      1.9      3.9      5.1     3.9      1.0      2.6      3.7      4.4     3.4
Pakistan's GDPfc (Rs. Million)  446005 480413.0 491325.0 513635.0 540528.0 577080.0 588191.0 600125.0 625233.0 649540.0 666115.0
Pakistan's GDP (% annual growth)            7.7      2.3      4.5      5.2     6.8      1.9      2.0      4.2      3.9      2.6
Note: Sindh data upto 1994/95 is from Kaiser Bengali (1997) paper, remaining years are ptojectod using the Pakistan growth rates.
Source: World Bank Staff Estimates.



Annex I
Page 8 of 15
Table 7: Sindh: Public Finances, 1999/00-2001/02
(Rs Million)
1999/00 2000/01    2001/02
Prov.   RE.
Total Revenues                               55416    61576     72859
Federal Transfers                           35921   40479     47599
Provincial Revenues                         12794   15621     18043
Tax Revenues                              5335    7147      8163
Non-Tax Revenues                          7459    8474      9880
of which; Abiana                          576      633       631
Federal grants                               6700    5476      7217
of which; KPP                                      949      3080
O&Z                             6700    4528      4137
Total Expenditures                           55000    59559     73892
Current Expenditures                         51055    54153     64830
Wages                                       22006   23327     31670
Pension                                      3452    3970      4600
Operations and Maintenance                   4669    5676      6896
Interest Payments                           11595   10440      11409
Subsidies                                     399    3178       1500
Grants to LG & others                        8934    7562       8755
Development Expenditures & Invest.            3945     5407      9062
Fiscal Balance                                 416     2016     -1033
Public Savings                                4361     7423      8029
Primary Fiscal Balance                        12010   12457     10375
Sources: Government of Sindh and World Bank Staff Estimates.



Annex I
Page 9 of 15
Table 8: Sindh: Agriculture Sector
Production "000" million
Area "000" hectares              tons
1998-99     1999-00      1998-99       1999-00
Major Crops
Wheat                                                1,123.7    1,144.2       2,675.1       3,001.3
Rice                                                  704.1       690.4       1,930.3       2,123.0
Sugarecane                                            270.8       230.6      17,050.7      14,290.8
Cotton ("000" bales)                                  630.2       633.5       2,134.1       2,377.4
Jowar                                                 110.3        91.1         64.4          55.9
Bajra                                                 175.0        18.0         73.1           8.9
Maize                                                  10.5         8.6          5.5           4.6
Rape seed & MustSrd                                    92.4        77.6         73.6          63.9
Gram                                                   89.8        86:4         76.7          70.4
1997-98      1998-99       1999-00
Land Utilization ("000" hectares)
Reported area                                                   14,081       14,046        14,051
Total cultivated area                                            5,685        5,647         5,699
Total cropped area .                                             3,946        4,111         3,885
Index of agriculture production (1985-86=100)
All crops                                                        150.5       150.39        155.81
Food crops                                                       130.3       133.68        144.37
Non-food crops                                                   176.4         171.7        170.41
Water withdrawals (in MAF)                                        46.47        48.16         45.37
Fertilizer off-take (in "000" M. Tons)                           603.96       528.06        528.81
Tractors and Tubeweiss (in numbers)                               1975          1984          1994
Tractors                                                         3,908        16,542       23,182
Tubewells                                                        7,995        9,481         16,236
Fisheries/Fish catch (In "000" M. Tons)                           1996          1997          1998
Marine                                                         267.84       285.77        295.65
Inland                                                          91.37         91.9          96.4
Source: Government of Sindh Web site.



Annex I
Page IOof lS
Table 9: Sindh: Manufacturing Industrial Production and Employment
Employment (in
Selected Industries              Unit       Factories covered     Production         numbers)
1998-99
Vegitable ghee              "000" M.,tons               23              191              1,673
Sugar                       "000" M. tons               29            1,331             18,969
Cement                      "000" M. tons                9            1,945             2,715
Fertilizer (Urea)           "000" M. tons                2            1,397              1,401
CottonYarn                  "000" M.tons                81              210            35,392
Cotton Cloth                Mn. Sq. Mtrs.                                85
Cigarettes                     Mn. Nos.                  2           10,527               875
1999-00
Vegitable ghee               "000" M. tons              23              187              1,607
Sugar                       "000" M. tons               29              959             16,022
Cement                      "000" M. tons                9            1,915             2,520
Fertilizer (Urea)           "000" M. tons                2            1,423              1,391
Cotton Yarn                 "000" M. tons               81              232            36;548
Cotton Cloth                Mn. Sq. Mtrs.                                93
Ci-arettes                    Mn. Nos.                   2           10.980               824
Source: Government of Sindh Web site.



Annex I
Page 11 of 15
Table 10: Sindh: Census of Manufacturing Industries, 1995-96
Average Daily
Industries                          Nos. Value of Production  Employment
(in Rs. billion)   (in "000|)
Total                              1,528            285.3           202.6
Textile                           350              58.5            61.3
Cement                              7               7.3             4.9
Fertilizer                          2               6.9             1.3
Ghee                                15              4.2             1.9
Refined Sugar                      23              17.5            15.9
Tobaco (Cigarettes)                 2               1.3             0.8
Auto Mobile                        45              21.9             4.1
Petroleum Refining                  2              29.2             1.3
Industrial Chemical                39              15.3             5.2
Other Chemical Products            60               9.7             4.4
Pharmaceuticals                    64              15.7             9.1
Others                            919              97.9            92.5
Source: Government of Sindh Web site.



Annex I
Page 12 of 15
Table 11: Sindh: Education Sector, 1998-99
Institution                        Number           Enrollment    Teaching
Staff
Primary Schools                        38,884        2,226,254     101,035
Male                                 32,909         1,835,374     79,955
Female                                5,975          390,880      21,080
Middle Schools                          2,073          121,392       8,932
Male                                  1,475           85,997       6,331
Female                                  598           35,395       2,601
High Schools                            1,449          603,261      30,167
Male                                  1,042          391,366      21,538
Female                                  407          211,895       8,629
Intermediate and
Degree Coleges                            201          251,874       5,239
Male                                                 144,948       3,094
Female                                               106,926       2,145
Technical Institutions                    105           27,921       1,116
Male                                                  25,229         810
Female                                                 2,692         306
1. Enrolment figures include children enrolled in govt. & private primary schools in class
I to V. A recent Survey by Federal Bureau of Statistics has esfimated an enrohnent
of 0.94 millions in class I to V in schools in Sindhl being run by other than govt.
including private schools.
2. Data of schools 1998-99 has been taken from SEMIS report, 1999.
The report covers only Govenment Schools
Source: Government of Sindh Web site.



Annex I
Page 13 of 15
Table 12: Sindh: Health Sector, 1999-2000
Type of Institutions                                 1.1.1999                1.1.2000
Numbers      Beds      Numbers       Beds
Hospitals                                            323    23,356          324    23,768
General, training and other Govt hospitals          86    10,340            86    10,744
Local, Autonomous bodies and other depts.           32     2,869            32     2,869
Private                                            205    10,147           205    10,147
Dispensaries                                       1,873      569          1,888      569
Govemment                                          208         6           221        6
Local, Autonomous bodies and other depts.          921        88           921       88
Private                                            744       475           744      475
Rural Health Centers                                  90     1,324           92      1,364
Basic Health Units                                   687     1,422          701      1,450
Sub-health Centers                                     9                      4
Mother & Child Health Centers                         37        12           37        12
Govt. T.B. Clinics                                   167        ..          169
Source: Govermment of Sindh Web site.



Annex I
Page 14 of 15
Table 13: Sindh: Transport, Communication, Electricity and Mining
1997-98           1998-99
Transport
Vehicles on Road (in number)                       888,475          921,798
Motor Cars, Jeeps & Wagons                      331,670          338,320
Motor Cycles                                    403,909          413,950
Taxies                                            13,873           31,073
Motor Rickshaws                                  22,446           24,153
Buses/Mini Buses                                  10,439          10,997
Trucks                                            11,151          11,802
Tractors                                          42,009          37,969
Pickups, D.Vans & Others                         52,978           53,534
Roads (inn Kms.)
Pucca(High Type)                                  20,186          20,610
Katcha(Low Type)                                   4,608           4,233
Tele-Communication Services
Post offices                                       1,805           1,872
Radio Licenses                                    74,923          74,650
Television sets                                  786,796         900,826
V C.R.V.C.P Sets                                  70,005
TBRSA Sets                                         2,966
Electridty Generated (in Mn. KWH)                   19,535           18,053
Mineral Production (in "000" Kgs)
Clay(Shale)                                     415,606          331,119
Coal                                           1,227,175       1,189,398
Lime Stone                                     2,315,397       2,204,292
Dolomite                                         74,112          129,817
Source: Goverment of Sindh Web site.



Annex I
Page 15 of 15
Table 14: Sindh: Electricity and Natural Gas Consumption, 1999-00
Electricity (in Mn. KWH)   Natural Gas (in Mn. Cub. Mtrs.)
K.E.S.C    WAPDA           KARACHI           INDUS
Total                        6,430      5,527              3,895         1,259
Domestic                    2,457       1,436              893            302
Commercial                   541         216               134             34
Industrial                  2,431       1,231             2,868           923
Agricultural                  28         557
Others                       973        2,087
Source: Government of Sindh Web site.



MAP SECTION






TURKMENISTAN      _ /        68-                                     70O
-3;6i  iUZEEKISTAN  TAIITSTAN\.                           PAKISTAN
SINDH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SSAC)
AFGHANISTAN
.62               3 3-                        TOWNS AND VILLAGES        SELECTED ROADS
0  DISTRICTCAPITALS     '  '  ' SELECTED RAILROADS
- PAKISTAN              t              PROVINCE CAPITAL     - - -  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
k  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-2W  1            2S 2-                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SINDH *  I
5ro    <      4                            ~gTo Rojonpur
_            To Rhotpo-t 
JACOB~~~ACO             %<              P UN JA B
BALOCHISTAN                                             T.1 SKondho  . ToSoA;qobo.d
-28-                        K^h,         5   ;R                                              28 -
2B~~~~~~         .      --  .~~~~~~~~~~~SHIKR  -  * Dhohoki                         2
B  A~~~oin  ~~  Mi~~pu~~ Mathelo
j        Shododhol    Roo  KK R  ,il GHOTKI       -          \s    o'
.       Kamh~~on,6o K} KHAIRPUR, s S UK KU R \  
I.. ~ ~ ~ K.
/      Noe'obd            ToDN.1  d ° d  tpi Khon
tt  onipor  PirtWooo4
Kh6oirpOr        *  lh6j
i N.fhon SohPs  <   0 g <  Thcri Mi-11l  
/       D j   FSE*%H  /T  h  KHAIRPUR
DADU    F      d.dZ
-260           !            \    t~~~~ S SJo  SAOAR GA            v2
I.h           8 m;h              p   o                  (T 0r
/ '  9       i\>S/,~~~~Il  N_'_ rotnoA      '     , 
Kolri   I' nd o                                 I r2 Noro
ANGHAR'4  AToho   k THAR PARKAR
- 24SANGHAR                                                                                  249-
A,RABIAN SEA            \,
dJv                      o~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20 40 60 80 00Ioo0Kilo
Kki         10  20  30  40  0 Miw
~~~~~~~~~~~D     . Kh                                      UMEKO
.0,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
..b., eredoneeoroeroofJu 7  M8°ITH70Ia
I Kaah  East                                                                                    N






IMAGING
Report No.:         24193   PAK
Type:      PAD



