                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 25158

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (IDA-36860; TF-50806)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 79.1 MILLION
                                (US$100 Million Equivalent)

                                        TO THE

                            ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                        FOR A

                      STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT FOR THE

                           GOVERNMENT OF SINDH PROVINCE




                                      June 19, 2003




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Region

                                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                                 (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                                 Currency Unit = Pak Rupees (PKRs)
                                                      US$ 1.00 = PKR 57.70

                                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                                      July 1-  June 30

                                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIT    Agriculture Income Tax                                   MTFRP     Medium-Term Fiscal Restructuring Plan
AERC   Applied Economic Research Center                         MTBF     Medium-Term Budget Framework
ADB    Asian Development Bank                                   NGOs     Non-Government Organizations
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                              NSS      National Saving Schemes
CBR    Central Board of Revenue                                 NWFP     North West Frontier Province
CFAA   Country Financial Accountability Assessment              PAC      Public Accounts Committee
CGA    Comptroller General of Accounts                          PAD      Pakistan Audit Department
DAO    District Accounts Office                                 PCA      Provincial Controller of Accounts
DFID   United Kingdom Department for International Development  PD       Project Document
DOE    Department of Education                                  PHRD     Policy and Human Resource Development
EPI    Expanded Program of Immunization                         PIFRA    Improvement to Financial Reporting & Auditing Project
FMC    Fiscal Monitoring Committee                              PRGF     Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
GOP    Governtment of Pakistan                                  PRSC     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
GOS    Government of Sindh                                      PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
GST    General Sales Tax                                        PSD      Private Sector Development
IDA    International Development Association                    SAC      Structural Adjustment Credit
IFC    International Finance Corporation                        SAP      Social Action Program
IMF    International Monetary Fund                              SBP      State Bank of Pakistan
I-PRSP Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper                 SMEDA    Small and Medium Enterprise Development Authority
KESC   Karachi Electric Supply Corporation                      SPSC     Sindh Public Service Commission
KPP    Khushal Pakistan Program                                 SPC      Sindh Privatization Commission
LGO    Local Government Ordinances                              SSAC     Sindh Structural Adjustment Credit
LHW    Lady Health Worker                                       UNDP     United Nation Development Program
MDGs   Millennium Development Goals                             WAPDA    Water and Power Development Authority




                                               Vice President:    Mieko Nishmizu, SARVP
                                            Country Director:     John W. Wall, SACPK
                                               Sector Director:   Sadiq Ahmed, SASPR
                                              Sector Manager:     Ijaz Nabi, SASPR
                                               Task Managers:     Ahmad Ahsan & Hanid Mukhtar, SASPR

                                          PAKISTAN
                             Sindh Structural Adjustment Credit


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34

Project ID: P075810                                                      Project Name: Sindh Structural Adjustment Credit
Team Leader: Ahmad Ahsan                                                 TL Unit: SASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 20, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Sindh Structural Adjustment Credit                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-36860; TF-50806
   Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                                           Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (40%); General industry and
                            trade sector (20%); Primary education (20%); Health (20%)
                  Theme: Other economic management (P); Administrative and civil service
                            reform (P); Public expenditure, financial management and
                            procurement (P); Regulation and competition policy (S); Tax policy
                            and administration (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    03/21/2002                                        Effective:                         07/17/2002
   Appraisal:    04/26/2002                                            MTR:
    Approval:    07/09/2002                                         Closing: 12/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN/DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE;
                                           GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN/GOVERNMENT OF SINDH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Mieko Nishimizu                                     Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          John W. Wall                                        John W. Wall
Sector Manager:            Ijaz Nabi
Team Leader at ICR:        Ahmad Ahsan                                         Ahmad Ahsan & Hanid Mukhtar
ICR Primary Author(s): Richard J. Carroll


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background


National context. The Sindh Structural Adjustment Credit (SSAC) was launched following a period of
disappointing economic growth and social development. In the 1980s, Pakistan's per capita growth
averaged a respectable 3 percent, but in the 1990s, average per capita growth fell to only 1.2 percent. At
the same time, there was little reduction of poverty. Social indicators generally stagnated and did not
compare well with indicators in other countries that had similar growth rates and incomes, particularly
child mortality, female literacy, primary enrollment as well as other social indicators. The 1990s also
witnessed a large accumulation of public debt as annual fiscal deficits averaged 6 percent of GDP. At the
end of the 1990s, Pakistan faced a financial crisis, domestic tensions, and an unsustainable level of debt
with interest payments consuming half of total tax revenue.

A military government came into power in October 1999, and designed a reform program to modernize
Pakistan and its institutions. This government learned lessons from the Social Action Program that was
launched in the 1990s, but did not fulfill expectations. A key lesson that emerged was that if the social gap
were to be closed, Pakistan would have to improve economic management and governance at the
sub-national government level in order to deliver basic social services effectively.

Provincial context. Leading up to the SSAC, the Sindh Province (SP) faced rising poverty, which
accounted for up to 35 percent of Pakistan's poor. Eighty-five percent of the population in the five
southern districts earned an income of $1 per day or less. A weak and constricting tax base, rising
provincial debt, a large inventory of unpaid liabilities, weak financial discipline and a mismatch between
the Government of Sindh's (GOS) expenditure priorities and its investment portfolio made it difficult to
reduce poverty. A bloated, poorly trained and unaccountable civil service contributed to poor quality of
health, education and water supply and sanitation services, as well as inadequate provision of roads and
irrigation and drainage.

The SSAC followed a programmatic approach to reform in which subsequent SACs would support broader
and deeper reforms. Therefore, this ICR focuses on the achievements through the fulfillment of Board
conditions, but also reviews the follow-on program up to the the current date.

Objective

The SSAC focused on the paramount need to improve service delivery and supported the SP's economic
reform program to reduce human and income poverty.              This program has three pillars: (i) fiscal
restructuring and financial management reforms; (ii) improving public service delivery through civil service
reforms, decentralization, and reforms in health, education, drinking water and urban services; and (iii)
regulatory reforms, privatization and infrastructure improvements. These objectives were responsive to the
province's main problems as expressed above.

The SSAC also supports the program expressed in the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy (IPRSP) that
was discussed by the World Bank and IMF Boards in December 2001. The Sindh Province qualified for a
provincial SAC based on its commitment to carry out necessary reforms, and thus has demonstrated "client
pull." This focus on client pull and the SSAC's fit with other features of the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Pakistan is discussed below.



                                                     - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

No revisions.

3.3 Original Components:

The components of the SSAC were consistent with the main goal of the Bank Group's Assistance Strategy
for FY2003-2005 which was to support the Government reform program for a transition to a modern
Islamic state through a program of analytical services, institutional capacity building, and demand-pull
lending. The prior actions that triggered the SSAC were based on the four criteria that the reforms: (i) are
complementary in their impact on reducing poverty; (ii) focus on achieving quick, visible improvements in
public services (e.g., enrollment, schools, immunization, road maintenance, project implementation,
reduction in the number of factory inspections); (iii) have strong champions and reflect actions that are
already underway; and (iv) are sustainable. The components of the SSAC that followed these criteria were:

1.       Fiscal and Financial Management Reforms
1.1      Fiscal Restructuring
1.2      Fiscal Decentralization
1.3      Improve Financial Management

2.       Improving Governance of Civil Service and Public Service Delivery
2.1.     Civil Service Reforms
2.2.     Public Service Delivery for Education
2.3.     Public Service Delivery for Health
2.4.     Public Service Delivery for Rural Water and Sanitation
2.5.     Public Service Delivery for Urban Services

3.       Promoting Private Sector Development and Economic Revival
3.1.     Regulatory Reforms
3.2.     Building Infrastructure: The Roads Sector
3.3.     Agriculture and Irrigation

Each component was a key to a reform program that aimed to reduce human and income poverty. Fiscal
management was essential because the budget provides the resources by which the government addresses
poverty. For the reform program to be credible, the budget had to reflect the reform program's priorities
and ensure sustainable expenditures. Thus, debt restructuring and revenue enhancement were necessarily
part of the program. Service delivery was essential to the reform goals and this component required sound
targets and monitoring and evaluation to improve governance, another important goal of the program.
Thirdly, it was important that the program contribute to growth, without which human and income poverty
could not be reduced. In this regard, the SSAC supported improvements to the regulatory environment. To
further enhance private sector development (PSD), the SSAC also supported much needed increased public
expenditures in operations and maintenance for infrastructure, including rural infrastructure.

The approach of the SSAC embodied the CAS' three strategic engagement principles: 1. Strong client pull
to reform and selectivity; 2. A programmatic approach focused on transfer of knowledge and capacity
building first, and resources second, in a flexible pursuit of key development outcomes; and 3. Partnerships
and outreach.




                                                     - 3 -

The SSAC was part of a programmatic approach, which is a sequence of similar credits (three are
anticipated) and is consistent with the process of long-term reform laid out in the IPRSP.              The
programmatic approach offers the flexibility to adapt the program to changing circumstances as well as the
multi-year commitment of a reasonable level of budgetary support in order for fiscal and governance
reforms to yield results. The triggers for the Bank's assistance strategy are based on measurable outcomes
derived from the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).

3.4 Revised Components:

No revisions.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

ICR ­ Satisfactory. The SSAC objectives were fully consistent with the CAS, in particular the need for
improving governance in the delivery of a wide variety of social services. The improvement in fiscal
management and private sector promotion were also key to the success of the reform program. The
selection of the Sindh Province as a recipient for a SAC was appropriate given the Province's demonstrated
commitment to critical reforms. As a single tranche operation, SSAC conditions were completed prior to
disbursement. Section 4 reviews these achievements. One area where the SSAC design was questioned
was its broadness. Although they were not part of the core conditionality (and not required for Board
approval), there was a wide range of reform actions that included agricultural pricing policy and irrigation
rehabilitation, and road construction standards and maintenance. The Bank, however, felt that it was
important to present a big picture that included all the key economic sectors, particularly in the case of a
first-time, provincial SAC. In this way, Bank management could more fully appreciate the economic
priorities of the Sindh province.

The Program Document cited three types of risk: continuity, implementation capacity, and exogenous
shocks. Continuity was correctly cited as the greatest risk because the reform effort would face resistance
from politicians and civil servants who saw their rent-seeking opportunities disappearing. Consensus
building around the reform program from a variety of stakeholders helped to mitigate this risk. The
consensus building was part of the one and a half year dialog leading up to the SSAC. While it was
identified and partially mitigated, the continuity risk associated with a change in government was somewhat
underestimated. Continuity risk, combined with the risks associated with devolution and the new capacity
demands it has brought, and the political party conflicts that have arisen, have posed significant threats to
sustainability which are discussed below. Conflicts between provincial and district governments have
arisen over power sharing, though not as seriously as some other provinces.            Another risk was the
inadequate implementation capacity at the District level. The reforms outpaced District capacity building
and resulted in delays in implementation (see Institutional Development Impact).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory. This ICR assesses achievements leading up to the
fulfillment of Board conditions and the tranche release (July 2001 to July 2002), and reviews the
continuation of the Sindh reform program (July 2002 until the date of this ICR). In both phases, the
government reform program made significant progress with respect to its three pillars/objectives: (i) Fiscal
restructuring and financial management reforms; (ii) Improving public service delivery through civil service
reforms, decentralization, and reforms in health, education, drinking water and urban services; and (iii)



                                                      - 4 -

    Regulatory reforms, privatization and infrastructure improvements. The monitoring indicators under the
    Sindh reform program derive mainly from the IPRSP and are targets for FY06 (Table 2). These indicators
    measure long-term improvements and were not expected to be fully achieved with the help of a single SAC,
    but rather with a series of SSACs. Annex 1 Tables A and B present the achievements as actions prior to
    Board, which are the core conditions, and the follow-on actions.

    Pillar 1: Fiscal and Financial Management Reforms (Satisfactory)

    Probably the single most important impact of the SSAC-supported reform program was in halting the
    decline of and engineering a turnaround in the financial management of the Sindh Province. Before the
    preparation of the SSAC, the GOS was accumulating large arrears to utilities, and was in heavy debt to the
    State Bank of Pakistan and to the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA). Since the SSAC,
    much of these debts have been paid off and there is new confidence in the business community that the
    GOS is capable of effective financial management. Reform champions and an effective public information
    campaign were key success factors in gaining the needed support for the reforms and achieving the
    turnaround.

                       Table 1: Summary Fiscal Accounts of the Government of Sindh
                                            2000/01          2001/02                                2002/03
                                                                             MTFRP Adj.             Original    Revised
                                             Actual        R. Estimate          Budget        MTFRP Target Projections

Total Revenues and Grants                        61,560             72,618            83,958             81,870    80,473
  Federal Transfers                              40,103             43,286            47,985             50,519    50,143
  Provincial Revenues                            15,981             18,375            26,952             23,800    21,605
   Tax Revenues                                   7,523              8,308            10,398              9,512     9,567
   Non-Tax Revenues                               8,459             10,067            16,554             14,288    12,038
       o/w Abiana                                   633                448                                  788       567
  Federal grants                                  5,476             10,957             9,000              7,551     8,726
   of which KPP grants                              948              2,601             2,000              3,000
              OZT grants                          4,528              4,286             7,000              4,551     7,019
              Others                                                 4,070                                          1,706

Total Expenditures                               62,895             73,866            86,933             85,703    80,741
Current Expenditures                             54,880             65,181            72,318             69,767    69,413
  Wages  1/                                      23,327             31,787            36,210             36,210    32,589
  Pension                                         3,970              4,591             6,400              5,250     4,000
  Operations and Maintenance                      5,676             10,778             9,217              8,843    10,885
  Interest Payments                              10,440             11,028            11,515             12,015    11,643
  Subsidies (Food)                                3,178              1,504               910                985     1,700
  Grants to LG and Investments                    7,562              5,493             8,066              6,464     8,596

Development Expenditures & Invest.                8,015              8,685            14,615             15,937    11,328
Annual Development Program                        4,585              3,990             7,000              7,060     4,500



Fiscal Balance                                   -1,335             -1,248            -2,974             -3,833      -267

Net Financing                                     1,335              1,248             2,974              3,833       267
1/Starting FY03, wage controls have improved as province does not allow extra monies to go to districts
Source: Department of Finance, GoS and Bank Staff Estimates




                                                               - 5 -

TABLE 2: Monitoring Indicators for the Sindh SAC Supported Program
Indicators                                  Appraisal      Latest-May 2003      Targets FY06
Macro
Growth* per annum                              3.3%           New Data Not            5.2 %
Poverty (Urban Basic Needs)*              19% (1998 PIHS)       Available         16% (FY04)
           Rural                               37%                                 31% (FY04)
Public Finance
Provincial Annual Tax Revenue                    -            17% (FY02)             15.2%
Growth                                                        13% (FY03)
AIT and irrigation charges collection            -               Static               20%

Share of education and health in           28% (FY 01)        28% (FY02)
current expenditures* (functional                             30.0% (FY03             39%
classification)                                                 budget)

Operations and Maintenance % of all         9% (FY 01)      14% (FY02 RE)             16%
expenditures (economic classification)                        13.4% (FY03
                                                              mission est.)
Development Expenditures of all             9% (FY 01)       11.8% (FY02)             18%
expenditures (economic classification)                        14% (FY03
                                                                budget)
Timely, comprehensive, reconciled
fiscal data eventually using modern            80%            90% (FY02)              95%
chart of public accounts                         .            95% (FY03)
(Identification and reconciliation of all
expenditures and public accounts)
Education and, Health
Gross primary enrollment rate*                 60%           100,000 newly       80% (FY 05)
  Gross Female Primary enrollment              41%           enrolled FY03            60%
  rate*

Number of Schools Made* Functional             88%           95% of schools          100%.
Teacher Competency Testing and                   .          functional by 02   101,000 teachers
Training*                                                    3,901 teachers  tested, 12,000 trained
                                                            trained in FY02           60
Infant Mortality Rate*                          95                                    80%
12 to 23 month Immunization *                  49%         TB Control access         100%
TB Control Access                               8%            now at 60%              40%
Births Attended By Trained                     28%
Personnel*
                                                                                      80%
Population with Access to Safe                 61%
Drinking Water*
                                                                                      90%
Notified Katcha Abadis (Urban                  80%
Slums) Regularized*

Infrastructure                                                                        50%
Proportion of Roads Classified in Poor         70%
Conditions                                                                    15200 km by FY 05
Kilometers of All Weather Farm to           14000 km to
Market Roads*                                                                 1500 Km channels
Rehabilitation of Irrigation
Infrastructure*                                                                   0.4 million
Temporary Employment* Generated             0.25 million
through KPP civil works.
Source: GOS and World Bank Mission estimates (May 2003).




                                                         - 6 -

The medium term fiscal restructuring plan envisages that provincial tax revenues will increase by 15
percent on average (to 1.0 percent of provincial GDP from 0.6 percent of provincial GDP and remain
steady). Though the share of GDP may seem small, this increase is significant over the levels achieved
during 1998/99-1999/2000 when tax revenue was a little over 0.6 percent, and is considered favorable
because one goal of fiscal policy reform was improved revenue mobilization. Non-tax revenues are
expected to increase from 1.0 percent of provincial GDP to 1.4 percent for 2002/03. Despite problems in
tax collection in the first months of 2003, tax revenue growth is expected to grow by 15 percent and
closely in line the the Medium Term Fiscal Plan's targets (see Table 1). Overall, provincial revenues will
increase by around 17 percent, further driven by higher oil and gas royalties.

Expenditures are expected to keep pace with revenues with an initial increase in the deficit and fiscal
balance by 2005/06. The largest expenditure category increase over 2001/02 is expected in the areas of
development and investment expenditures.           These are budget figures, however, and there are
implementation difficulties relating to decentralization to the District level, with the Districts having trouble
channeling the development funds (which are transferred resources, now 70 percent of the total Provincial
expenditures) to development activities in a timely fashion. Overall the picture is mixed with shortfalls in
development expenditures compared to the budget, (but still representing an increase in the share of total
expenditures). It is essentially a capacity building issue that is addressed below. Nevertheless, the overall
provincial development expenditures and investments (including pension fund building) is expected to grow
by around 13 percent, i.e. close to 10 percent in real terms. The share of education and health in current
expenditures has also increased from 28 percent to 30 percent, with the increase in share taking place in
non-salary expenditures.

Pillar 2: Improving Public Service Delivery Through Civil Service Reforms, Decentralization, and
Reforms in Health, Education, Drinking Water and Urban Services (Satisfactory)

Early outcome indicators suggest a satisfactory performance under this objective. The SSAC supported a
program that has been headed in the right direction as generally shown by the monitoring indicators in
Table 2.     Budget allocations to social sectors and for development expenditures are increasing.            In
education, improved service delivery is indicated by the enrollment of over 100,000 new students in the
province, and reaching the 95 percent level of schools that are functional. In health, TB immunization
coverage has reached 60 percent compared with 28 percent before the program. Data on other health
outcomes including drinking water and urban services have not been updated since the start of the program.
Measures carried out under these areas as well as the details of civil service reforms are provided in section
4.2. Capacity development to support devolution will be key to most areas of program success for the next
few years (See Annex Table 1A for more details).

Pillar 3: Regulatory Reforms, Privatization and Infrastructure Improvements (Satisfactory)

Impact under this pillar is difficult to assess because of the lack of recent data on outcomes, though it is
probably not very significant as yet. Probably the most important impact however, comes from the
streamlining of factory inspections from 23 to 7, thus drastically reducing one of businesses' important
nuisances. Infrastructure priorities have been set and represent significant upgrading, are are achievable if
the fiscal situation remains sound. In the roads sector, the Communications and Works Department CWD)
has allocated 70 percent of its share of the FY 2001-02 maintenance budget to priority roads, and has
prepared a larger prioritized list of roads with associated required maintenance. CWD has sent the
PPRMS plan (road prioritization plan) to district governments to use this plan to prioritize. CWD is also
rationalizing its roads portfolio (budgeted and abandoned) with the aim of prioritizing road expenditures,



                                                      - 7 -

rapid completion of on-going works, and managing the throw-forward. CWD is focusing on completion of
350 on-going schemes. Section 4.2 provides a more detailed record of activities under this reform pillar.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Outputs are identified as the actions taken prior to Board presentation and subsequent or follow-on actions
as described in the SSAC supervision reports (See Annex Table 1B for more details). Outputs are
organized according to the components as they appeared in the policy matrix of the Program Document.
These components are almost identical to the reform pillars in the previous section. The overall rating of
achievement of outputs is satisfactory.

Component 1: Fiscal and Financial Management Reforms

Satisfactory. As part of the SSAC program, the GOS has carried out a number of important measures to
improve its fiscal condition and quality of financial management.        GOS expanded the tax base and
increased provincial tax revenues by 18 percent in FY01 and by an average of 13 percent in FY02 and FY
03 (Table 2). The GOS retired arrears of Rs. 21 billion owed to the Federal Government, private
contractors and utilities.  A Medium Term Fiscal Restructuring Plan has been adopted to increase
provincial revenues, pro-poor expenditures, reduce future expenditure obligations such as debt servicing,
and pension obligations. The GOS has provided Fiscal Monitoring Reports to the public that were based
on accounts that were more than 90 percent reconciled (FY02) with the Accountant General. The GOS has
also set up the Provincial ad-hoc Public Accounts Committee (PAC), made review of audit reports current
and opened PAC sessions to the press. GOS has appointed a Provincial Finance Controller to lead
financial management reforms. The GOS streamlined financing procedures to ensure timely release of
budgetary funds for development expenditures and non-salary health and education expenditures.

Follow-on program (Satisfactory). Agriculture Income Tax (AIT) reforms are under implementation and
a Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant is supporting automation of revenue records,
assessment and collection. Overall Medium Term Fiscal Restructuring Program (MTFRP) revenue targets
for the province have been achieved, although AIT and abiana (irrigation) charges have been lower than
target.   Non-salary health and education budgets increased though less than projected.               Fiscal
decentralization has been proceeding as well under the approved Provincial Finance Commission's Interim
formula-based transfers which allow for distributions of funds for recurrent expenditures in a ratio of
60:40, and for development expenditures in a ratio of 30:70, between provinces and local governments,
respectively.   All district staff salaries have been transferred to district governments.            While
decentralization is going through start-up difficulties, the GOS has taken important initial steps to make it
effective.

Fiscal management has improved in terms of clarifying accounts and audit preparation rules and roles of
Provincial and District Accounts Committees (PACs and DACs), though capacity development has been
slow because of the shortage of skilled staff for the District Accounting Offices (DAOs). The provincial
development portfolio has been mostly devolved and has been streamlined. .

Component 2: Improving Governance of Civil Service and Public Service Delivery

Satisfactory. The GOS implemented the Sindh Public Service Commission Ordinance, which gives the
Commission administrative and financial autonomy, tenure and control over all appointments of officials
above Grade 11 (previously Grade 17). In education, the GOS increased accountability, access and quality



                                                     - 8 -

by (i) expanding the role of the School Management Committees, chaired by parents/Citizens community
Board members, to monitor teacher performance and school budget implementation; and (ii) redeploying
and recruiting teachers to make viable schools functional; and (iii) setting up the M, R&E cell of the
Department of Education and initiating monitoring of schools. In health, the GOS has increased the
Expanded Program of Immunization from 39 to 50 percent, set up provincial M&E programs, and
strengthened capacity in district health management.

Follow-on program (Satisfactory).        The PSC Ordinance was promulgated providing for tenure of
commissioners and the tenure of senior officers is publicly available on the GOS website. To give greater
credibility to the Sindh Public Service Commission (SPSC), the GoS is now revising procedures so as not
to allow the Governor to overrule the SPSC's decisions. In terms of local accountability, all appointment,
promotion, and transfer authority of staff in grades 16 and under and their performance evaluation
functions have been transferred to the Districts, though it needs to be noted that in practice the provincial
Government continues to wield considerable powers. The GOS has given School Management Committees
(SMCs) the power to contract teachers in primary and secondary schools. In human resource management,
GOS has moved forward with the civil service head count, and there has been some use of contracts along
with a successful recruitment freeze.

Education (satisfactory) delivery is improving and is expected to continue to yield significant
improvements. Some of the promising developments in the education sector include:

l Enrollment drives have increased primary enrollment by 100,000.
l Free textbooks are provided for all students, increasing from 340,000 books in 2001 to 1,100,000
    books in 2002.
l Greater funds to SMCs and the power to recruit teachers.
l Focus on hiring of only female teachers at the primary level (of which one benefit is demonstrating that
           educating girls can lead to worthwhile employment).
l Major facility/human resource rationalization exercise
l Reduced Teacher absenteeism.


The health (satisfactory) sector has also witnessed concrete achievements under the program:

l Immunization program has expanded, including the recruitment of 700 vaccinators.
l Hepatitis B vaccination program has been introduced to cover the entire province.
l Supplementary TT campaign has achieved 86 percent coverage as reported by TPV.
l TB DOTS program coverage has reached 60 percent and the program to cover the remaining eight
         Districts is underway.
l GOS has substantially increased budget allocations for upgrading Taluka hospitals, as well as district
    hospitals.
l Incentives have been improved for doctors and paramedics staff who work in rural areas.



The weaknesses were few, but included slow implementation of contracting out health facilities.
Communication between the provincial and district governments was also rather slow. District government
participation in the design and preparation of the component needs to be strengthened. The weaknesses
underscore some of the difficulties in rapid devolution and the importance of capacity building at the
District level.




                                                    - 9 -

Component 3: Promoting Private Sector Development and Economic Revival

Satisfactory. GOS has streamlined factory inspections by reducing them from 23 to 7 and conducting
them in two days. Supervision reports suggest that this reform has been effective and credible. Monitoring
of this condition is important to ensure additional hindrances to factories' operations do not arise. The
GOS has implemented the Sindh Privatization Commission Ordinance providing a clear mandate to the
Commission to privatize a clearly defined list of assets. However, after some initial privatization, progress
on additional privatizations has been held up by the absence of the Chairman of the Commission since the
new Government has taken over. The GOS is about to appoint a new Chairman though. The establishment
of a Road Sector Development Directorate, updating a five-year rolling plan for road maintenance, and
developing manuals for design standards and specifications and environmental management has led to a
more strategic approach to road development and maintenance. The next Budget will set up a non-lapsable
Roads Fund to ensure adequate maintenance resources. In Agriculture, program implementation included
increasing farmer/user association involvement in irrigation management and cost recovery, closing the
Sindh Agriculture Supply Organization, and promoting private sector seed production by improving its
access to public sector produced breeder seeds.

Follow-on Program (Moderately Satisfactory). The reduction of inspections has had the greatest impact
on improving the business climate, which has been further improved by establishing a one window facility
for paying all provincial taxes in the SITE industrial area. Portfolio rationalization in the roads sector has
been reflected in the 2002-2007 Rolling plan. Five new Area Water Boards and 50 farmer organizations
have been introduced to improve irrigation management. PR1.4 billion has been allocated for irrigation
system rehabilitation.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Modest. With the strong emphasis on fiscal management and public service delivery, the SSAC was
heavily geared to institutional development. The program has initiated a major transformation in provincial
and district government operations, with higher levels of accountability and transparency at both levels and
a major shift of responsibility for government service delivery to the Districts. However, it is still too early
in the program to characterize the impact as substantial. The nature of many of the reforms is "top down"
consisting of rules changes, reallocations of budget and responsibilities. The necessary capacity to take on
primary responsibility for basic social services is still in its early stages of development. The difficulty the
Districts are having in simply channeling development expenditures to the appropriate departments is one
example. The reforms in financial management will also require capacity building before the institutional
impact is secured, as the shortage of skilled District accounting officers (DAOs) demonstrated. The new
powers of the SMCs will translate into better management only if SMC training is successful and if their
allocated funding reaches them in time. In health, as in education, the Districts do need to be more fully
involved and take greater ownership of the course of reform. The next two to three years will be critical to
determining whether these changes will lead to substantial institutional development impact. The Bank



                                                     - 10 -

supervision matrix reflects the priority of building the necessary implementation capacity.




5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Several major factors impeded the economic recovery of the province. There was a drought during
2001-02 that reduced agricultural production and revenue from the AIT. Regional tensions diminished
investor confidence and slowed recovery as well. In addition, the elections in October 2002 and the
unexpectedly long period for Government formation led to a slowdown in the implementation of the
program. Lingering uncertainties with respect to the continuity of the reform program persisted, but these
uncertainties are expected to be resolved pending the settling in of the new government.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Despite the uncertainties, indications are that the GOS is committed to the reform program. The SSAC
benefited from the national reform agenda led by the President. Other reform champions included, but were
not limited to, the Governor of Sindh, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Education. The
Government was particularly helpful in the success of the SSAC by pushing for larger budget allocations
for education and health. The SSAC also benefited from a strong M&E unit and coordination intensified
after tranche release.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The newness of the SSAC posed a challenge for the Sindh provincial authorities. In the past, operations
had been conducted through the central government or by provincial sector departments. Sindh authorities
responded well to the opportunities offered by the SSAC and took charge of their own program. The dialog
between the Bank and the Sindh provincial Government leading up to the SSAC was essential to a
successful operation, especially the sustained dialog at the technical level. The main weak spot in this first
SSAC was that the District Governments, which had only recently been formed, were not fully on board, or
at least not fully involved in some areas of the program such as the education reforms

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total original credit amount was SDR 79.1 million (US$100 million equivalent). The entire credit
amount was disbursed in a single tranche upon effectiveness. The credit was made on standard IDA terms
with a term of 35 years, a 10-year grace period, and an IDA service charge of 75 basis points. The
borrower was the Islamic Republic of Pakistan which then lent the funds in PAK rupees (also on IDA
terms) to the Province of Sindh. The credit proceeds were for general budget support. In addition to
increasing social and rural infrastructure expenditures, the GOS invested US$50 million for the
prepayment of Federal debt (which carried expensive terms) and the capitalization of the General Provident
Fund/Pension Fund.




                                                     - 11 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the SSAC is rated likely, but with some important qualifications. An uncertain rating
might be more appropriate, but is not an official rating available to the ICR. The GOS fully completed
tranche release conditions and continued its reform program in fiscal and financial management, civil
service, education, health sector reforms, rural infrastructure development and regulatory reforms and
privatization. As a result, the World Bank Board endorsed, in principle, a program of three SACs for
Sindh. Subsequently, the preparation for the second (out of three planned) SAC for the Sindh Province
started in FY03. The new Government formally endorsed the Sindh Reform Program in their first Cabinet
Meeting in March 2003 and has reiterated this support to visiting Bank staff members and supervision
missions. Some highly motivated civil servants have used the SSAC policy matrix as an instrument for
continued change in their areas. This suggests some resiliency of the GOS commitment to reform to
political changes.     Visible, positive outcomes, especially in fiscal and financial management, helped
generate considerable goodwill for the reform program within the provincial business community and,
indeed, the society as a whole.        Government commitment combined with support from the business
community suggests that reforms are likely to be sustained.

The qualifications to this rating mean that sustainability is by no means assured. As stated, the program
document for the Sindh SAC correctly identified the political risk to the continuity of the program, but
underestimated it as well. Political conflicts between parties have arisen as part of the devolution of power
to the district level. Although there was a detailed briefing to the provincial cabinet on the reform program,
and general agreement with going forward, and Cabinet members and Governors have stated their strong
support for the program in discussions with a recent Bank mission, implementation has slowed between
January and May. It is not clear that leadership is sufficiently organized to take some of the important and
difficult steps in the reform program, though they have stated that the new Government will build record of
implementation and important decisions starting from their first budget. There is concern that civil service
reforms may not hold as pressure builds on a democratically elected government to deliver tangible benefits
to its constituents. The fiscal situation, while substantially improved is still fragile and could deteriorate.
Sustainability will require a continued dialogue with the GOS that helps policy-makers view the reform
program as a political asset to them. On the positive side, however, the GOS's budget for FY 2003-04,
announced a few days ago, broadly follows the Medium Term Fiscal Restructuring Targets of the program.
This applies to both aggregate fiscal parameters and in the priority the budget has provided to the social
sectors, maintenance, and rationalization of the development portfolio through completing projects. The
budget will need closer analysis though.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The types of reforms supported by the SSAC, such as those promoting sub-national governance require
years to achieve, but are also expected to be sustained as a new way of doing business. Transparency, and
accountability will be ingrained in processes of social service delivery. These processes will require
continued support for at least the remaining two years of the plan period. As stated in the section on
institutional development impact, building capacity at the District level will be the key to program success
and sustainability for the next few years. The Bank and the Government recognize this priority, which is
reflected in the policy matrix for the follow-on program and the pre-SSAC2 activities. With the greater
degree of democracy in Pakistan, implementation may become more challenging because supporting
constituencies for the reforms must be built.       However, the reforms are popular and have received
favorable reports in the press. A key to sustainability, perhaps the most important one, is that the leading



                                                     - 12 -

politicians have started to view the program as beneficial to their political future. This will require
continued tangible benefits sooner than later and progress in social service delivery may be the best way to
achieve these benefits.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank conducted a sustained policy dialog with the GOS, which resulted in a meaningful
reform program. The program was consistent with the national reform priorities, the Government IPRSP
and the CAS. The credit amount was appropriate to a province of Sindh's economic size and the proceeds
allowed the GOS the flexbiity to acclerate its pay down of expensive federal debt and a bolstering of social
expenditures and the pension system.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory.   The supervision process went smoothly before and after tranche release, with regular
updates to the policy matrix of the follow-on program. The Bank conducted a major supervision mission in
September 2002, just prior to the elections. The supervision report laid out in detail the strengths and
weaknesses of the program to date and identified priority actions for continued reform.            A further
supervision mission was carried out in December 2002 during which the new Chief Minister was briefed on
the Sindh Reform Program (SRP). The cabinet endorsed the SRP on March 3, 2003. Senior management
also held discussions with the GOS in March 2003 to guage the new government's commitment to the SRP.
Finally, a full fledged supervision mission has just concluded their mission and agreed on quarterly
implementation benchmarks with the Government

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank worked effectively with the GOS to carry out a significant reform program that continues to
move forward and its overall performance is, therefore, rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The GOS was deeply involved in the dialog leading up to SSAC. This technical level dialog
combined with the reform support at the top levels of the Government helped produce a strong program.
District level officials, however, could have been more involved during the dialog and developed greater
ownership.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. The GOS carried out the Board Conditions expeditiously for a timely tranche release.
During the main supervision mission in September, the concerned ministries and agencies showed that they
were well-prepared and demonstrated ownership of their provincial reform program. The GOS went
beyond core conditions to implement a broader reform program. There have been some shortcomings in the
broader program, with concerns raised about the strength of civil service reforms and the fiscal situation.

The GOS maintained an implementation and monitoring unit within the Finance Department, which



                                                   - 13 -

functioned well. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements were set up as part of the Federal Government's
Poverty Reduction Strategy to track public expenditures, outputs and outcomes. In terms of the flow of
SSAC financing, the Central Bank carried out its role of efficiently transferring the credit proceeds to the
Sindh provincial government. The auditor also reviewed the conversion of the US$ credit into Pak Rupees
at the Province level to ensure full value to the province.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. All implementing agencies carried out meaningful reform agendas as the achievement of a
broad range of objectives has shown. The main areas that need strengthening are in the capacity of and
reform ownership by the District personnel.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The Borrower fulfilled all tranche conditions and pursued a strong follow-on program. Despite several
negative external factors, the Borrower recommitted to the SRP and all major elements of borrower
performance were satisfactory or better, thus, overall borrower performance is satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

A strong dialog between the Bank and the provincial government at the technical as well as the
cabinet level is a key to success for a reform program. The Bank had been in a policy dialogue with the
Sindh province for about one and one half years before a lending operation was formally discussed. This
approach also maximizes borrower ownership of the reform program.

A high level champion of the policy dialog is needed to win the commitment of technical level civil
servants. The provincial Minister of Finance and the provincial Governor all sent signals to the lower
levels of government which secured their cooperation with the Bank at the technical level.

If solid borrower ownership of the reform program can be established, then it is advisable to provide
financial support (an IDA credit) even considering the risks of lending to a sub-national government
preceding an election. The Bank could have waited until after the elections to provide assistance,
however, it is clear that the right decision was made to proceed prior to the elections. The advantages were
that (i) reform progress was already underway; (ii) the new government would have an already established
reform framework to guide them and reduce the likelihood of ill-conceived policies; and (iii) there was an
element of obligation to continue a program that had already born fruit.

An accompanying TA project enhances the effectiveness of subsequent SACs. The Sindh province
reform program is comprehensive and complex and there were a number of areas where sustained expertise
and capacity building were provided by a PHRD grant. This PHRD grant was designed specifically for the
SSAC and financed key consultancies and equipment in most areas of the reform program. There was also
access to expertise for the financial management area through PIFRA. One area where additional TA will
be needed is in the privatization subcomponent, as well as in establishing M&E. It would be preferable if
the TA were supported by grant funding.

For projects that support decentralization, it is important to assess beforehand the limits to which
laws can be reformed without approval from the central government. For example, the provincial
Government agreed to streamlining labor laws, but the approval of eliminating some of the more



                                                     - 14 -

burdensome labor protections requires approval from the federal government on which the Sindh province
cannot place a timetable.

Subsequent provincial SACs would benefit from greater donor coordination. Improved coordination
will help leverage funding for priority activities in future phases of the reform program.

Initially, structural adjustment programs at the provincial level should be broad-based, with
increasing focus over time. In Sindh, it was important at the outset to appreciate the larger economic
situation and address the key constraints, even if these measures were not part of the core conditionality.
Subsequent operations may be more focused.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                      - 15 -

- 16 -

- 17 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                             - 18 -

10. Additional Information

NA




                              - 19 -

   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                                      TABLE A: Outcome Indicators

   Outcome Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                  A. Fiscal and Financial Management Reforms
Objective/Subcomponent                            Prior Actions (SSAC conditions in bold)                 Post Board Actions (triggers in italics)

Implement fiscal restructuring to create more  GoS has expanded the provincial tax base by (i)
fiscal space for poverty reducing expenditures introducing agriculture income tax; (ii)
and improve quality of expenditures            rationalizing stamp taxes by reducing their
                                               number and making them ad-valorem; and (iii)
                                               enlarging property tax base by increasing
                                               rating areas and adding 100,000 units to the
                                               base.                                                  Deepening of expenditure prioritization based on

                                               Done FY 02. Provincial tax revenues increased by       well-targeted and costed sector strategies and a

                                               27% in FY01 and are expected to increase by 14%        medium-term expenditure framework.

                                               in FY02.
                                                                                                      Provincial revenue collections, AIT and Abiana
                                               Expenditures were increased for social sectors and     collections
                                               infrastructure in FY 01 and FY 02 budget.              Ceilings on wage expenditures
                                               Non-salary expenditures for key education sector       75% allocation of ADP to completing priority
                                               activities were doubled in FY 02 budget from last      expenditures
                                               year. The current budget allocation for health has     Capitalization of G.P. fund/pension funds and use
                                               increased by 16%. The ADP is giving priority to        of G.P. fund
                                               completing on-going schemes by allocating 75% of       Net receipts for G.P. Fund capitalization
                                               the ADP.

                                               GoS has retired its arrears and over-drafts (2% of     Accelerated repayment of expensive debt;
                                               GDP) accumulated over the past decade.                 Provision for severance packages for a VRS.
                                  B. Strengthening Governance: Civil Service and Public Service Delivery Reforms

Promoting Professionalism and Merit            Reducing Transfers: GoS has been reducing              Introduce merit promotion arrangements at district
                                               transfers and the average tenure for senior officers   government level (equivalent of the Public Service
                                               has increased to 15 months, compared to less than      Commission for recruitment and promotion within
                                               12 months before.                                      district government). (FY03 and 04)

                                               Strengthening Discipline: GoS has enforced the
                                               Sindh Civil Service Act (1973), the associated
                                               Government Rules of Business (1986), and using
                                               the new Removal from Service (Special Powers)
                                               Ordinance, 2000 to strengthen disciplinary
                                               powers. These powers have been used to take
                                               actions against more than 600 senior officers
                                               including doctors for absenteeism and other
                                               charges.

Strengthening Local Accountability             District Governments have been formed,                 GoS will set up the district civil service cadre to work

                                               Provincial and District Departments reorganized,       directly under local Governments (FY 03 and FY 04)

                                               and GoS has transferred 270,000 staff to the           who will have the authority to hire and fire them.

                                               district Governments (though they continue to be
                                               paid by provincial budgets).

                                               Contractual Employment and Reducing                    Powers of School Management Committees to be

                                               Absenteeism: The Department of Education has           enhanced to increase their role in hiring and removal of

                                               instituted the use of school-specific contracts in     teachers, based on vetting by the appropriate local

                                               recruiting teachers to ensure greater                  Government (FY 03).

                                               accountability. The Health Department has
                                               implemented measures to stop absenteeism.
                                               Some 1500 doctors have been served notice and
                                               more than 350 doctors removed from service.




                                                                          - 20 -

  Outcome Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                                         Actual/Latest Estimate

Objective/Subcomponent                       Prior Actions (SSAC conditions in bold)                      Post Board Actions (triggers in italics)
Improvements in Human Resource            GoS has frozen vacant positions and abolished 12,000        GoS to take actions to eliminate ghost workers, and to
Management and Rightsizing the Government vacant positions in FY 01.                                  develop a VRS scheme, subject to adequate safeguards
                                                                                                      to prevent adverse selection and rehiring of retrenched
                                                                                                      staff as per the medium term fiscal plan (FY 03 to 06).
                                          Rationalizing Provincial Departments and Agencies:          Right sizing exercises will be undertaken in all
                                          The number of provincial Departments has been               remaining provincial departments as per Cabinet
                                          reduced from 29 to 23. Three departments have been          instructions issued earlier (FY 03).
                                          carrying out some right-sizing exercises under which
                                          around 831 staff from six departments were moved to
                                          the Surplus Pool for redeployment. Around a dozen
                                          provincial enterprises and autonomous bodies have
                                          been closed down or merged.
                                                 Improving Public Service Delivery: Education

Improving Access to Education             GoS has launched two enrollment drives in                   Annual and bi-annual district wide drives to increase
                                          primary education that will raise enrollment by             enrollment and retention in FY03/FY04.
                                          5%.

                                          It has introduced Free & Compulsory Education               Provide the missing physical facilities to schools as per
                                          in 16 talukas in FY02, and will cover all 102               targets.
                                          talukas by FY04.

                                          The GoS has made 3,796 schools functional­                  Extend free textbook program in 2003 school year to all
                                          with 1,858 still closed and to be made                      government primary schools.
                                          functional in FY03-FY04, through teacher
                                          re-deployment and new facility-based teacher                Expand the Free & Compulsory Education policy to all
                                          recruitment.                                                102 talukas by FY04.

                                          GoS is providing free textbooks to all rural and            Primary net enrollment rates will be increased from
                                          urban slum female primary students in                       60% to 80% by 2005. The number of out of school
                                          government schools. For the 2002 School Year,               children will be reduced from 2.2 million to 1.1 million
                                          GoS provided free textbooks to all boys as well as          by 2005.
                                          girls in primary schools.
                                                                                                      All remaining closed schools to be made functional by
                                                                                                      2004 (1,858 remaining will be made functional).
Prepare a good actionable health sector                                                               Implement strategy and track progress towards achieving
strategy with clear targets                                                                           goals and targets as presented in (FY03- FY04).
Strengthen and expand immunization and TB Strengthen the routine immunization program with            Annual District Assessment of Immunization Coverage
programs                                  GAVI support and expand the EPI coverage of 12 to using third party.
                                          23 months of children from 39 percent to 50 percent.
                                                                                                      Expansion of DOTS in NGO/private sector in urban
                                                                                                      areas in FY03 and FY04.
                                          Program for Hepatitis B vaccination initiated in 2 districts
                                          and NIDS and SNIDS undertaken with a number of              Capacity building of LHWs Malaria Supervisors to
                                          confirmed Polio cases decreasing from 65 in 2000 to 23      provide immunization services (FY03 and FY04).
                                          in 2001. Supplementary immunization to be undertaken
                                          in 16 districts in high-risk areas. EPI directorate         Continue supplementary TT immunization campaigns
                                          strengthening for monitoring & supervision                  annually.
                                                                                                      Target an increase in immunization coverage of 12-23
                                                                                                      months children and two doses of TT
                                                                                                              *FY03 - 55%
                                                                                                              *FY04 - 65%
                                                                                                              *FY05 - 80%

                                                                                                      Expansion of TB DOTS strategy in all districts by 2004
                                                                                                      with annual targets--FY03 - 75%; FY04 100%.




                                                                       - 21 -

  Outcome Indicator/Matrix                               Projected in last PSR                                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Objective/Subcomponent                         Prior Actions (SSAC conditions in bold)                 Post Board Actions (triggers in italics)

Improve Health Sector Governance and         DoH is conducting monitoring of absenteeism and 350
District Management                          doctors have been dismissed.

                                             All transfers have been made transparent.

                                             Procurement process is being made more
                                             transparent and put under scrutiny.
                                          Improving Public Service Delivery: Rural Water and Sanitation

Expand and Rehabilitate Rural Drinking       Adopt/reinforce uniform policy of community            Implement all RWSS schemes with community
Water and Sanitation Schemes on a            participation, involvement and cost sharing as the     participation and maintenance arrangements. Mobilize
Sustainable Basis                            guiding principle for all RWSS schemes.                communities to share costs of provision and O&M.

                                             Provide Taluka Governments adequate and timely
                                             funds for the rehabilitation of existing and           Implement five year rolling plan prepared for RWSS
                                             maintenance of recently built RWSS schemes.            schemes that doubles the allocation by FY 04, which
                                                                                                    is feasible.

                                                                                                    Improvement in Coverage of Drinking Water from
                                                                                                    61% to 80%.
                                                 Improving Public Service Delivery: Urban Services

Improve livability of urban areas through                                                          Continue improvement of urban slums for the
improved efficiency, coverage, and quality                                                         shelter-less urban poor based on recently approved
of basic infrastructure services in a                                                              National Policy on Katchi Abadis, Urban Renewal and
sustainable manner                                                                                 Slum Upgradation (ongoing).

                                                                                                   Empowered LGs in place, pursuing high priority
                                                                                                   development programs (FY 04 ­ FY 05).

                                                                                                   Urban areas more livable and better managed (FY 04 ­
                                                                                                   FY 05).
                                          C. Promoting Private Sector Development and Economic Revival
                                                                     Regulatory Reforms

Implement Regulatory Reforms to Improve      Streamline Factory Inspections: The number of         Over the next six month period to develop a monitoring
the Business Climate                         inspections reduced from 23 to 7 for factories        and evaluation system of regulatory reform impact in
                                             (and to 4 for shops) with all visits to take place    partnership with Transparency International (FY 03).
                                             in two days. The number of items checked in
                                             inspections has been reduced. Regulations             Further rationalization of regulatory activities and
                                             limiting opening hours for shops have been            evaluation of the impact of the new regulatory regime
                                             repealed.                                             (FY 03).

                                             Taking Action Against Harassment and                  Institutional strengthening of regulatory bodies: (i)
                                             Corruption: Internal management has been              Building human resources, professionalizing the
                                             strengthened. Disciplinary actions have been          operating environment, and introducing technology in
                                             taken against staff for harassment against the        all aspects of operations; (ii) introducing user fees for
                                             private sector.                                       regulatory services; and (iii) developing an independent
                                                                                                   and autonomous regulatory capacity inclusive of all
                                             Streamlining Labor Laws: The number of labor          businesses (FY 04).
                                             laws is in the process of being reduced from over
                                             27 laws, regulations and ordinances to 6 laws.
                                             These laws which have been jointly developed by
                                             the GOS and the Federal Government all require
                                             federal ratification
Promoting public-private partnerships                                                             Completion of privatization in the following
                                                                                                  categories of assets (i) lands and other unutilized
                                                                                                  assets; (ii) state corporations which in many cases are
                                                                                                  no longer operating; (iii) large enterprises (KWSB
                                                                                                  assets and sugar mills.




                                                                         - 22 -

   Outcome Indicator/Matrix                                  Projected in last PSR                                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Objective/Subcomponent                          Prior Actions (SSAC conditions in bold)                       Post Board Actions (triggers in italics)
                                                    Building Infrastructure: The Roads Sector

Improve returns to investment through (i)      Expenditure Prioritization: CWD has allocated 70% of       Setting up of a non-lapsable road maintenance fund
better road asset inventory; (ii) better       its share of the FY 2001-02 maintenance budget to          dedicated to routine maintenance. The potential sources
maintenance of roads on a prioritized basis;   priority roads, and has prepared a larger prioritized list of funds are expected to include fuel levies, cesses,
(iii) updating cost estimates; and (iv) better of roads with associated required maintenance. CWD         revenues from tolls and surcharges on heavy vehicles.
budgeting to reducing throw forward.           has sent the PPRMS plan (road prioritization plan) to      Its governing board will include representatives of the
                                               district governments to use this plan to prioritize.       private sector to monitor the maintenance. (FY 04).

                                               Rationalization of Existing Portfolio: CWD will            Annual total road maintenance allocations at 65% [or
                                               complete the rationalization of its existing Development   more] of requirements.
                                               portfolio (budgeted and abandoned) with the aim of
                                               prioritizing the ADP road expenditures, rapid              Annual Targets for decrease in overall road user costs
                                               completion of on-going works, and managing the             based on analysis of percent of roads in Good/Fair/Poor
                                               throw-forward (Mar- 02). CWD is focusing on                Conditions.
                                               completion of 350 on-going schemes.
                                                                                                          Share of provincial roads in poor conditions decreased
                                                                                                          from 70% to 50%.

Implement Devolution of the Roads              Implementing Devolution: The CWD has devolved              Prepare a restructuring plan to rationalize staff skill mix
Maintenance Program                            its share of the intra-district road network               and numbers based on post devolution structure of the
                                               (approximately 16,020 km) and half the staff               Works and Services department (FY 03).
                                               (8,475) to the district governments' works and
                                               services group of offices. The road maintenance
                                               budget has been separated and CWD has sent
                                               guidelines to district governments on how to
                                               prioritize their share of the maintenance allocation
                                               and submit their priorities to be incorporated in the
                                               medium term rolling plan for provincial road
                                               expenditures.
                                                                    Agriculture and Irrigation

Increase Agriculture Sector Growth and         GoS has increased effectiveness of agriculture             Reduce public sector presence by closing down Sindh
Yields through improvement in Extension        extension services by (i) taking measures to               Agriculture Supply Organization, its Food Department,
and Irrigation Services and Regulatory         reduce absenteeism. In the case of extension               and the Sindh Seed Corporation, with the staff of these
Reforms                                        workers, monthly salary has been made                      agencies to be assigned to the surplus pool or paid a
                                               contingent upon at least five farmers (who are             severance package.
                                               changed every month) certifying their presence
                                               and contribution; (ii) holding field days and              Continue program of irrigation infrastructure
                                               farmer days in villages to make a special effort to        rehabilitation with greater farmer participation in Area
                                               disseminate best practice.                                 Water Boards under the SIDA and public sector
                                                                                                          investments.

                                                                                                          Increase access to the private sector under which private
                                                                                                          seed companies will get access to breeder seed
                                                                                                          developed by the provincial public sector research
                                                                                                          institutes.

                                                                                                          Higher growth of wheat and cotton crops.

                                                                                                          Greater private sector participation in produce, inputs,
                                                                                                          extension services and research.

                                                                                                          Higher infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance
                                                                                                          with indicators

                                                                                                          Greater commercial viability of research institutes
                                                                                                          indicated by cost recovery.




                                                                            - 23 -

  Outcome Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Objective/Subcomponent                          Prior Actions (SSAC conditions in bold)      Post Board Actions (triggers in italics)

The GoS has increased accountability,                                                    (i) Done; (ii) Department of Educations has made
access and quality of education through (i)                                              3,800 primary schools functional (10% of current
expanding the role of the school                                                         schools) through redeploying and recruiting teachers
management committees, chaired by                                                        under private sector management and community
parents/Citizens community Board                                                         involvement; (iii) Monitoring and Evaluation Cell
members, to monitor teacher performance                                                  (MR&E) has been set up and it has initiated monitoring
and school budget implementation; and (ii)                                               of schools.
redeploying and recruiting teachers to make
viable schools functional, and (iii) set up the
M, R&E cell of the DoE and initiated
monitoring of schools.

GoS has (i) increased coverage of                                                        GoS is increasing EPI coverage from 39% to 50% and
immunization services based on a                                                         TB DOTs coverage from 8% to 31%. Provincial M&E
well-targeted program; (ii) strengthened                                                 programs are being set up and district health
health sector monitoring and evaluation                                                  management has been strengthened.
programs; and (iii) initiated a program of
strengthening capacity in district
governments.




                                                                  - 24 -

                                                    TABLE B: Output Indicators

Output Indicator/Matrix                                Projected in last PSR                                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            A. Fiscal and Financial Management Reforms
Objective/Subcomponent                       Prior Actions (SSAC conditions in bold)                 Post Board Actions (triggers in italics)

Implement fiscal restructuring to create   The GoS has adopted a Medium Term Fiscal               Strengthen institutional framework for provincial
more fiscal space for poverty reducing     Restructuring Plan to increase provincial revenues,    revenue collection (i) computerizing land and tax
expenditures and to improve quality of     pro-poor expenditures, and to reduce future            records; (ii) using satellite imaging to increase
expenditures.                              expenditure obligations such as debt servicing, and    agriculture income tax and land revenues (by end
                                           pension obligations on a sustainable basis.            FY 03); and (iii) integrating Excise & Taxation
                                                                                                  Departments and Board of Revenue (FY 03) into a
                                                                                                  Provincial Revenue Authority attached to the
                                                                                                  Finance Department (by end FY04).

More reliable, comprehensive, timely       Adopt a public Financial Management Reform             Completion of Provincial Financial Accountability
and accurate information pertaining to     Program (FMRP) that includes: (a) 100%                 Assessment and preparation of a time bound Action
provincial and district government         reconciled provincial and district          "Public    Plan.
financial transactions.                    Financial    Statements"    (b)   elimination     of
                                           unidentified expenditures and financing (c)
                                           institutional strengthening of District Accounts
                                           Offices and below (d) implementation of NAM            Introduction of the NAM and roll out of the PIFRA
                                           and roll out of PIFRA systems and (e)                  computerized system in all districts
                                           computerization of payroll.

                                           GoS has produced fiscal monitoring reports
                                           that present quarterly statements on revenue           Carry out institutional capacity development plan,
                                           collections, and expenditures. These reports           including upgrading of DAOs, recruitment and
                                           are based on improved accounts ­ with 80%              training.
                                           reconciliation of civil accounts.
                                                                                                  Incremental improvement in reconciliation of
                                           GoS has streamlined budget-financing procedures        Provident Fund accounts, all assets and liabilities
                                           to ensure timely release of development                to be achieved 100% by FY2005.
                                           expenditures and high priority non-salary social
                                           sector expenditures.                                   Amendment/enactment of appropriate rules for
                                                                                                  timely submission of audit reports to provincial and
                                                                                                  district Public Accounts Committees and for timely
                                                                                                  review by them.
                                           Done (December 2001). Disbursement of high
                                           priority expenditures has increased significantly.     Publication of the annual accounts of the Public
                                                                                                  Sector Enterprises, authorities and other autonomous
                                                                                                  bodies with the budget document from FY03.

                                           Provincial Public Accounts Committee has               Enhanced oversight role of professionals and citizens
                                           been formed and is completing the review of            in project planning, implementation, and delivery
                                           the most recent FY00 accounts. The PAC                 systems for improved efficiency and value for money
                                           sessions have been opened to the Press and             (FY03).
                                           other interested parties.
                                                                                                  Establish Internal Audit unit for each
                                                                                                  ministry/department.



                                                                                                  Annual implementation review of PAC and DAC
Availability of government financial                                                              directives (FY03 and FY 04).
statement information to the citizens.



Improved internal control environment

                                           Government adoption of a Financial Management
                                           Reform Program, including decision to appoint
                                           Provincial Financial Controller.




                                                                      - 25 -

Output Indicator/Matrix                                 Projected in last PSR                                   Actual/Latest Estimate
Objective/Subcomponent                        Prior Actions (SSAC conditions in bold)                   Post Board Actions (triggers in italics)

Shortened procurement periods and           Procurement reform policy adopted under Financial        Revision of provincial procurement rules and
reduction in irregularities and complaints  Management Reform Program.                               manuals, standardizing bidding documents, and
                                                                                                     establishing an effective mechanism to redress
                                                                                                     complaints from suppliers, to simplify the process,
                                                                                                     increase transparency and efficiency, and
                                                                                                     introduce a code of conduct and ethics for public
                                                                                                     officials handling procurement (FY03).

                                                                                                     Enact a Procurement Law legislating the
                                                                                                     fundamental principles of good public
                                                                                                     procurement (FY04).

  Implement fiscal decentralization         The GoS has unbundled the provincial budget into         Provincial Finance Commission Awards have been
                                            provincial and 16 district budgets.                      made with a combination of untied grants and
                                                                                                     conditional grants to provide incentives to meet
                                                                                                     sectoral expenditure targets.

                                            The Provincial Finance Commission has been set up and Prepare and implement the fiscal decentralization
                                            will prepare a fiscal award formula for transfers to     plan (FY 03 and FY 04).
                                            districts based on population, fiscal efforts, and
                                            backwardness.                                            Strengthen district level fiscal monitoring
                                                                                                     frameworks.

                                                                                                     Ensure streamlining of funding release procedures
                                                                                                     to sub-district tiers (Taluqas and Union) of
                                                                                                     Governments.

                                 B. Strengthening Governance: Civil Service and Public Service Delivery Reforms

Promoting Professionalism and Merit         The GoS has promulgated the Sindh Public                 Extend the autonomy of the PSC to include
                                            Service Commission Ordinance, which provides             administrative autonomy, amending its status as an
                                            the Commission with administrative and financial         attached department and allowing it to discipline its
                                            autonomy, security of tenure, and associated rules       own staff, removing the option for the governor to
                                            which provides the PSC with control over all             overturn its decisions and extending its scope to
                                            appointments of officials over grade 11 instead of       include contract-based recruitment.
                                            only over Grade 17 as previously.
                                                                                                     Introduce regular monitoring of transfers of officials
                                                                                                     to make transparent the numbers of transfers and
                                                                                                     check progress in reducing transfers. GoS will
                                                                                                     review Civil Service Act and the Rules of Business
                                                                                                     to see how these can be revised to enforce existing
                                                                                                     rules that discourage transfers of civil servants
                                                                                                     before three years (FY 03).

Improvements in Human Resource              Improved Data for Human Resource Management:             Conducting a comprehensive civil service census
Management and Rightsizing the              The Services and General Administration Department       in FY 03 and preparation of human resource data
Government                                  has started an initial headcount of civil servants       base over FY 04.
                                            expected to be completed by March 2002 providing
                                            data on the order of magnitude of errors in the existing Prepare for the greater use of contract-based
                                            payroll data.                                            employment through legal changes to prevent
                                                                                                     regularization, ensuring robust establishment and
                                                                                                     budget controls, and extending the overview
                                                                                                     provided by the PSC (FY 03).




                                                                         - 26 -

Output Indicator/Matrix                                 Projected in last PSR                                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                               Improving Public Service Delivery: Education
Objective/Subcomponent                        Prior Actions (SSAC conditions in bold)                      Post Board Actions (triggers in italics)

Improving Access to Education                                                                            Launch an awareness campaign for education.

Improving Quality, Accountability, and     Approve the education assessment system.                     Implementation of Provincial Student Assessment
Governance                                                                                              System.

                                                                                                        Further expand powers of School Management
                                          School Management Committees (SMCs) have been Committees to include hiring and firing decisions (with
                                          provided enhanced powers for monitoring teacher arrangements for appeal) and strengthen their linkages
                                          attendance and implementation of school non-salary to the Citizen Community Boards. (FY 03).
                                          budgets.
                                                                                                        Implement teacher training and re-certification
                                           All new teachers are being appointed on contracts to         program in FY 03 and FY04 and continue
                                           specific schools, so that they can be held accountable to    partnership with IED. Introduce performance based
                                           the school management committees. Recruitments are           incentives for teachers.
                                           merit based and transparent, with private sector and
                                           community involvement in carrying out competency
                                           tests and interviews.
                                                                                                        Continue program to strengthen district education
                                           GoS has initiated intensive teacher training program for administration including setting up and monitoring
                                           20,000 teachers and conducting of teacher competency         performance indicators (FY 04).
                                           programs. Initiated partnership for teacher education
                                           with IED.

                                           District education management has been set up and
                                           strengthened. Manual establishing rules and procedures
                                           to clarify the functions and responsibilities of the district
                                           education staff, guidelines on accessing funds and
                                           carrying out monitoring and evaluation responsibilities
                                           issued.

Improve Monitoring and Evaluation         Research, Monitoring and Evaluation Cell of DOE                Strengthen capacity of R&M&E Cell
                                          has been set up and it has initiated monitoring of
                                          schools.                                                       Third Party Validation Surveys by districts have
                                                                                                         been completed and district wise service delivery
                                                                                                         benchmarks established (FY03, FY04) and
                                                                                                         publicized.

                                                    Improving Public Service Delivery: Health

Prepare a good actionable health sector    Adoption of a Comprehensive Outcome Based
strategy with clear targets                Strategy based on National Health Policy into strategy
                                           note and implementation plan with defined targets in
                                           seven key areas.

Improve access to health care services by  GoS has developed policy guidelines for public private       No construction of new facilities.
contracting out newly constructed          partnerships and advertised facilities for public private
primary health care facilities to NGOs     partnerships.                                                Contract out facilities to NGOs and private sector
and private sector                                                                                      (FY 03 and FY 04).

Improve Health sector Governance and                                                                     Development of policy guidelines for District
District Management                                                                                      Managers. Implement in-service training program
                                                                                                         for district managers in management, planning and
                                                                                                         financial management (FY 03).



                                                                                                        Implement detailed proposal for capacity building
                                                                                                        (FY 03 and FY 04).




                                                                         - 27 -

Output Indicator/Matrix                                     Projected in last PSR                                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Objective/Subcomponent                            Prior Actions (SSAC conditions in bold)                  Post Board Actions (triggers in italics)

Enhance Monitoring and Evaluation              EPI Directorate strengthened with additional staff         Strengthen monitoring and evaluation unit at the
Capacity                                       and new monitoring techniques.                             provincial level Undertake annual district level.
                                                                                                          Third Party Validation Survey (FY 03 and FY 04).

                                                   Improving Public Service Delivery: Urban Services

Improve livability of urban areas               Establish empowered local government (LG)                Strengthen LG capacity through staff rationalization,
through improved efficiency, coverage,          structures with clearly defined functional               HRD and training; development of systems and
and quality of basic infrastructure             responsibilities. Rationalize urban service provision    procedures (FY 03 and FY 04).
services in a sustainable manner                agencies under LGs in 15 common and one City
                                                District, remove functional overlaps; assign clear roles
                                                and responsibilities.

                                                Regularize dweller's rights in 929 slums, complete
                                                regularization work in 623, and execute development
                                                and improvement work in 486 urban slums through
                                                SKAA.

Ensure accountable, transparent &               Set up public-private partnership bodies for urban       Establish effective policy/regulatory oversight for
responsive service provision institutions       development in the Economic Development Council          LGs at provincial level; require LGs to publish &
and LGs                                         (EDC) under the chairmanship of the Governor with a      disseminate annual reports on performance (FY
                                                50% private sector representation, to facilitate         03-FY 05).
                                                implementation of the GoS's Program for Economic
                                                Revival of Karachi (PERK) by cutting across              Take decision regarding future institutional
                                                bureaucratic layers and bottlenecks.                     arrangements of KWSB, and required actions
                                                                                                         towards improved service provision.

                                            C. Promoting Private Sector Development and Economic Revival
                                                                       Regulatory Reforms

Promoting public-private partnerships           The Sindh Privatization Commission has been set          Implementation of contracting out the functions of the
                                                up by promulgation with adequate funding and             GOS.
                                                autonomy in partnership with the private sector
                                                and the master list of assets to be privatized has
                                                been approved.

                                                Carry out an inventory of the assets and enterprises in
                                                order to establish the employment, financial position,
                                                and fiscal impact of privatization.

                                                        Building Infrastructure: The Roads Sector

Improve returns to investment through           Communication and Works Department's (CWD)'s
(i) better road asset inventory; (ii) better    stocktaking of road conditions has been carried out.
maintenance of roads on a prioritized           CWD has prepared maintenance backlog estimate and
basis; (iii) updating cost estimates; and       a maintenance prioritization plan. A medium term
(iv) better budgeting to reducing throw         road maintenance funding plan has been approved
forward.                                        under the Fiscal Restructuring Plan.

                                                Rationalization of Existing Portfolio: CWD will
                                                complete the rationalization of its existing
                                                Development portfolio (budgeted and abandoned) with
                                                the aim of prioritizing the ADP road expenditures,
                                                rapid completion of on-going works, and managing the
                                                throw-forward (Mar- 02). CWD is focusing on
                                                completion of 350 on-going schemes.




                                                                             - 28 -

Output Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                         Agriculture and Irrigation
Objective/Subcomponent                   Prior Actions (SSAC conditions in bold)              Post Board Actions (triggers in italics)

Increase Agriculture Sector Growth and GoS has established the Sindh Irrigation Development   Rationalize procurement prices by setting wheat
Yields through improvement in          Authority (SIDA) under which water boards and          and cotton prices at the export parity price.
Extension and Irrigation Services and  farmers organizations are being set up to collect      Procurement prices of all other crops at market
Regulatory Reforms                     higher irrigation charges and then take charge of      prices.
                                       maintenance, with the technical help of SIDA. The
                                       GoS's medium term fiscal restructuring plan also
                                       includes sizeable increase in allocations for the
                                       rehabilitation of irrigation and increasing water
                                       charges to promote more efficient use of this scarce
                                       resource.

                                       GoS has removed market barriers by lifting
                                       restrictions on the internal movement of agricultural
                                       commodities.




                                                                        - 29 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                             Estimate        Estimate         Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million       US$ million
  Budget Support                                              100.00            100.00               100


  Total Baseline Cost                                         100.00            100.00
                          Total Project Costs                 100.00            100.00
                    Total Financing Required                  100.00            100.00




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
      Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                          IDA       Govt.       CoF.     Bank       Govt.      CoF.     IDA    Govt.   CoF.
Budget Support           100.00                          100.00                         100.0




                                                  - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                           No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                                (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                     Month/Year         Count             Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               July 2001-                          1    Economist                             S               S
               March 2002                          1    Civil Service
                                                   1    Financial Mgmt. Specialist
                                                   1    Human Development
                                                   1    Private Sector Development

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               April 2002 -                        1    Economist                             S               S
               May 2002                            1    Financial Mgmt. Specialist
                                                   1    Civil Service
                                                   1    Public Sector Specialist
                                                   1    Private Sector Development
                                                   1    Human Development

 Supervision
               September 2002                      7    Economists                            S               S
                                                   1    Financial Mgmt. Specialist
                                                   1    Human Development
                                                   1    Civil Service
               December 2002                       1    Economist                             S               S
               May 2003                            1    Economist                             S               S
                                                   1    Public Sector Specialist
                                                   1    Private Sector Development

 ICR
               December 2002 -                     1     Economist                            S               S
               May 2003



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                             No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                        95.41                           307.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  (included above)                (included above)
  Supervision
  ICR                                                10.3                            43.9
  Total                                           105.71                          *351.8
*Includes labor, travel and other costs.




                                                         - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Program Document For a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 79.1 million (US$100 million equivalent)
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for a Structural Adjustment Credit for the government of Sindh
Province, May 28, 2002.

Development Credit Agreement July 10, 2002.

Memorandum of the President on a Country Assistance Strategy for the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, June
24, 2002.

Project Agreement between the International Development Association and the Province of Sindh, July 10,
2002.

Project Status Reports from supervision missions (Project File)

Report and Recommendations of the Provincial Finance Commission, Government of Sindh, Provincial
Finance Secretariat, June 2002.

Summary for the Cabinet: Sindh Reform Program Supported By The World Bank's Structural Adjustment
Credit, January 11, 2003.




                                                    - 35 -

- 36 -

