Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3686 PAK
Project Agreement
(Sindh Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF SINDH
Dated July 10, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3686 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the PROVINCE OF SINDH acting by its Governor 
(Sindh).
WHEREAS (A)
the Association has received from the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the 
Page  2
Borrower) a letter dated May 24, 2002 transmitting to the Association a letter from Sindh dated 
May 22, 2002 describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve and 
strengthen the fiscal framework and public institutions of Sindh (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring Sindh’s commitment to the execution of the Program and the Borrower’s support 
thereto, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; 
(B)
Sindh has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in the 
Schedule to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework consistent with the Borrower’s macroeconomic framework 
satisfactory to the Association;
(C)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy nine million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 79,100,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Sindh agrees to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(D)
the Program will be carried out by Sindh with the Borrower’s assistance and, as 
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Sindh the local currency equivalent 
of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS Sindh, in consideration of the Association entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  3
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Program
Section 2.01. Sindh declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Program with due diligence and efficiency, and shall provide or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,  facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Program. 
Section 2.02. (a) Sindh shall from time to time, at the request of the Association, and 
with the participation of the Borrower, exchange views with the Association with regard to the 
progress of the Program, the actions specified in the Schedule to this Agreement, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, Sindh shall furnish to the Association and 
the Borrower for their review and comments a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Sindh shall promptly inform the Association and the Borrower of any condition, 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Program, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Sindh of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Section, Sindh shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified 
in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) For the purpose of assisting in the implementation and monitoring of 
the Program, Sindh shall maintain the implementation and monitoring unit established within the 
Finance Department in a form and with powers, functions, structures, staff and resources 
satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provision of Section 2.04 of this Agreement, the 
implementation and monitoring unit referred to in paragraph (a) above shall supervise, monitor 
and coordinate implementation in all the agencies implementing the Program, and shall produce 
quarterly reports consisting of: (i) the quarterly fiscal monitoring reports on the implementation 
of fiscal and financial management targets; (ii) progress in the implementation of specific 
Page  4
measures agreed under the medium term reform program; and (iii) data on outcomes from 
surveys and other sources when these become available.
Section 2.04. Sindh shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, including the impact of 
implementation of the Program on the poor;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and
(c)
review with the Association the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, within forty-five (45) days of the receipt of the report and thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient implementation of the Program and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter.
Section 2.05. (a) Sindh shall use the amounts transferred to it by the Borrower pursuant 
to Section 2.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement in support of the Program. Sindh 
undertakes that no proceeds of any such amounts shall be used to finance expenditures under a 
contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by representatives of Sindh during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
unless and until Sindh shall have taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any such amount shall 
have been used to make a payment for any expenditure not consistent with paragraph (a) above, 
Sindh shall, promptly upon request from the Association, refund such amount to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation. 
Page  5
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Sindh shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
(b)
Upon the Association’s request, Sindh shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association 
shall reasonably request. 
Section 3.02. (a) Sindh shall, not later than thirty (30) days of  the receipt of the Rupee 
amount transferred to it by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02(c) of the Development Credit 
Agreement provide confirmation to the Association showing the date and the Rupee amounts 
received from the Borrower and stating that such amounts have been credited into the 
Consolidated Account of Sindh on that same day.
(b)
Upon the Association’s request, Sindh shall, not later than sixty (60) days after 
the date of such request, provide to the Association an audit report by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association showing the date and the Rupee amounts transferred by the 
Borrower to the Consolidated Account of Sindh pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Development 
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and Sindh 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
Page  6
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms 
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
notify Sindh of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail,  telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted 
to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. 
Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. telegram, cable, telex 
or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s 
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  7
For Sindh:
Finance Department
Government of Sindh
Karachi, Pakistan
Facsimile:
(92-21)920 6511
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Sindh may be taken or executed by 
the Secretary Finance, or such other person or persons as Sindh shall designate in writing, and 
Sindh shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ John W. Wall  
Country Director, Pakistan
PROVINCE OF SINDH
By /s/ Mushtaq Ahmed Malik  
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 
Actions Referred to in  Recital (B) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, 
and in Recital (B) of the Preamble to the Project Agreement
Page  8
A.
Fiscal and Financial Reforms
1.
Sindh has expanded the provincial tax base by: (a) introducing an agriculture income tax; 
(b) rationalizing stamp taxes by reducing their number and making them ad valorem
;
and (c) 
enlarging the property tax base by increasing the rating areas from 16 to 42, and adding 100,000 
new units for property tax purposes.
2.
Sindh has: (a) retired its billing arrears amounting to twenty-one (21) billion rupees in 
the aggregate owing to federal government agencies, private sector contractors and utilities; (b) 
reduced blocked account arrears (past overdraft) its overdraft with the State Bank of Pakistan by 
more than ninety percent (90%); and (c) set up specific arrangements to avoid the accumulation 
of such arrears in the future.
3.
Sindh has: (a) adopted a medium term fiscal restructuring plan setting out specific targets 
for: (i) provincial revenues and pro-poor expenditures; and (ii) future expenditure obligations, 
such as in respect of debt servicing and pensions; and (b) incorporated such targets for the first 
year of such plan in the budget parameters for FY 2002/03.
4.
Sindh has: (a) made publicly available quarterly Fiscal Monitoring Reports on revenues 
and expenditures based on accounts which are more than seventy-five percent (75%) reconciled 
with the Borrower’s Office of the Accountant General; and (b) implemented revenue and 
expenditure targets agreed with the Association for the first two quarters of Fiscal Year 
2002/2003.
5.
Sindh has: (a) set up an ad-hoc Provincial Public Accounts Committee (PAC); (b) 
completed its review of audit reports for FY1998/1999 and FY 1999/2000; and      (c) opened up 
PAC proceedings to the press.
6.
Sindh has streamlined its financing procedures to ensure timely release of development 
expenditures and high priority non-salary health and education sector expenditures.
7.
Sindh has: (a) taken a decision to appoint a professionally qualified Provincial Financial 
Controller in its Department of Finance (DOF) to lead financial management reforms based on 
terms of reference agreed with the Association, and (b) adopted a Financial Management 
Reform Program agreed with the Association.
B.
Strengthening Governance: Civil Service and Public Service Delivery Reforms
1.
Sindh has issued an Ordinance (the Sindh Public Service Commission (Amendment) 
Ordinance, (No. XXXIX of 2001)) amending the Sindh Public Service Act of 1989 to enhance 
the Sindh Public Service Commission’s independence, increase its financial autonomy, expand 
its role in the recruitment of public servants, and limit and define the posts which are outside its 
purview. 
2.
Sindh has increased accountability and quality of, and access to, its education services 
through: (a) expanding the role of school management committees, chaired by parents/citizen 
community board members to monitor teacher performance and school budget implementation; 
(b) redeploying and recruiting teachers to make about 3,800 viable schools functional; and (c) 
Page  9
setting up a monitoring, research and evaluation cell in its Department of Education (DOE) and 
initiating the monitoring of schools.
3.
Sindh has increased the accountability and quality of, and access to, its health services 
through: (a) increasing the coverage of immunization services (EPI from 39% to 50% and TB 
Dots from 8% to 31%) based on a well-targeted program; (b) strengthening the health sector 
monitoring and evaluation programs; and (c) initiating a program of strengthening capacity in 
the district governments to deliver health services.
C.
Regulatory and Private Sector Development Reforms
1.
Sindh has streamlined the system of inspections of factories by reducing the number of 
such inspections from 23 to 7 all of which to take place in two days.
2.
Sindh has issued an Ordinance establishing a Privatization Commission with a clear 
mandate to privatize a clearly defined list of assets approved by the Sindh Cabinet, and bids 
have been received for the first set of privatizations.
