6- J         -S  IL W       -rc
I)omat of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No..:P- 5870-FE        Type: (PR)
Title:  PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTf
Author: ROBERT TAYLOR                                          RepoNo, P5870PE
Gr'. 3 19 1    1oo_T-7 - / (/ ieNP &f/LNP
MEMORANDUM AND RE      TION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
InTERE TIOIJAL  BAUR FOR RECOlNSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMNT
TO THE
IEECUVE DIREORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
in AN bMOUWNT EQUVALENT TO US$30 ILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PERW
FOR A
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NOVEIER 4, 1992
This document has a restricted distibudo and may be used by recipients only In the perfomance of
their official dunes. Its contents may not otherwe be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY BOUIVALENTS
(as of September 2, 1992)
Currency Unit = Sol
US$1.00 = 1.295
1 Sol = US$0.77
FISCAL YIEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Aeroperu         -    Peru National Airline (Empresa de Transportes Aereo del Peru)
CAF              -    Andean Development Fund (Corporacion Andina de Fomento)
Centromin        -    Central Peru Mining Company (Empresa Minera del Centro del Peru)
CPT              -    Peru Telephone Company (Compania Peruana de Telefonos)
COPRI            -    Commission for Promotion of Private Investment (Comision de Promocion
de la Inversion Privada)
CPV              -    Peru Shipping Company (Compania Peruana de Vapores)
Electroperu      -    Peru Electricity Company (Empresa de Electricidad del Peru)
ENATRU           -    National Urbat. Transport Company (Empresa Nacional Transporte Urbano
del Peru)
ENTEL            -    National Te!erphone Company (Empresa Nacional de Telefonos)
F1 PRI           -    Privatization Fund
Hierro Peru      -    Peru Iron Ore Company (Empresas Minera del Hierro del Peru)
Minero Peru      -    Peru Mining Company (Empresa Minera del Peru)
OAS              -    Organization of American States
Pescaperu        -    National Fish Company (Empresa Nacional Pesquera)
Petroperu        -    Peru Petroleum Company (Petroleos de Peru)
Quimpac          -    Pacific Chemicals Company (Quimica del Pacifica)
RAP              -    Rights Accumulation Program
SAL              -    Structural Adjustment Loan
Sedapal          -    Lima Water Company (Servicio Agua Potable de Lima)
SOEs             -    Stateowned enterprises
Solgas           -    Peru Gas Company (Compania Penrana de Gas)
TA               -    Technical Assistance
UNDP             -    United Nations Development Program



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PERU
PRWAITATION TEHICAL ASSMANZE PROJECT
LWAN AND PROJECT SUMbMRY
Borrower:           Republic of Peru
Executig :Agc:   Commission for Promotion of Private Ilvestment (COPRI)
Beneficiaries:      Not applicable
4mount:             US$30 million
Tom:                Payable in 20 years, including five years of grace, wift Interest at the Banrs
standard variable rate
I!rojet
ObjecBve:           To assist the Govenumn in the prearation and implementaton of its
prlvatization program and rdeaed sectoral policy, legal and regulatory
refonns.
Project
Descripdon:         The project will finance: (a) jized-term staff and office support for the COPRI
tcnical secreuriat and special privatizaton committe; (b) domestic and
int   o   inrao   n  and prodonal campaigns for Peru's pdvatiation
program, and information programs to assist laid off SOE workers; and (c)
consuting services to asist with the preparaton and implementation of
priatizaon and related policy/regulatory reforms in mining, hydrocabons,
tlecommunications, power, fisheries, akA/uban transport, industry, water,
and banking. These consulting services would involve: (i) the preparation of
now sectoral laws/reguations; (i) financid, labor, legal and envonmentl
audits; (it) valuations; and (iv) the preparation of sales docum
~~~Imdng ~ ~     ~      ~     Lc        Fordn 1W f
IBRD                7.5       22.5      30.0
Government of Peru   6.5      0.3        6.8
Othert
Total:              17.0      26.3      43.3
Rate of Return:     NA
Eavfronenta
lassifictio:        c
£ Includes parallel fnding from Japan, Canada, CAF and UNDP.
This document hus a estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMNATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE I         TO THE  XECUTIVE DRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBIC OF PERU
FOR A PRIVATI:LAT,ION Zl;QNCAL ASSLSTANCE E1S013C
1.   I submit for your appval the following memra   and recommedtin on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Peru for i equivalden of US$30 million to help fiace a Privatization
Tehical Anistce  Project. 'he loan would be on sta4ard IBRD terms, repayable over 20 years
including five years ge, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The loan would finance
tehnical as   ce (A) to sort the praation and Implemation of the Governmens
privatization prpm amd related sectora policy, legal and regulatory rform.
2.   MOeo         c. On takn office in August 1990, the new Government lamuhed a major
stabiliation and stuur reform program involving trade, price and exchange rate liberalization,
together with fiscal and monetary meaures to reduce the deficit and hyperinflation. A debt workout
program was also Initiated. In July 199', the Bank approved the application to Peru of its policy fOr
lending to countries with protacted areas. Under this policy, Peru has been required to agree wih
the Bank and the IMF on an extn  financing plan, adopt a Fund stabilization program and a Bank-
suport  adjustnt program, and continue making current debt service payments to the Bank. In
Sepmber 1991, an extenl fiacing plan was agreed and the Fund approved a Rights Acmulaion
Program (RAP) for Peru. In FY92, the Bank approved he adjustment loans: a US$300 million
Trade Reform Loan, a US$300 million SAL and a US$400 million Financal Sector Reform Loan
Lons approved by the Bank will Ot be disbused until areas with the Bank are cleared.
3.   The economic program remais on trak  Peru has met the quarterly RAP pefomnce targets
and has adhered to the condions of the Bank adjustment program  Peru cleared arreas with the DB
in September 1991, nd has maind currnt debt service paments with all thee insttutions. The
adoptio of the RAP paved th way for a suces  Paris Club rescheduling in Septemr 1991, and
enabled Peru to re-establish relations with bilat    creditors. A Support Group of bilateral doors
commited over US$1.0 billion, incldin both balan  of payments and project aid for 1991-92, and
disbursed US$437 milion in 1991.
4.   PVAI_tn. In mid-1991, the Govermnt expanded Its refom program to Indude
prFvatzatn, with the objective of prvatizing all its staeowned ent   (rougly 180 majorky
and mnority holdings) befr its term epired in mid-1995. A legislative decree (#674) was passed
in September 1991 establisng the broad legal ban instional fmework for pivazaton. The
program is supervised by an inter-ministl commission (COPRI), reporg direty to the
Presdent. Tem tecnic praatory work is decentralized to specia committees which are
designted by COPRI for eiter one or a group of state-owned enterprises (SOEs).
S.   Since COPRM and its tecical serat became  eational In February 1992, the
Govement has made impressive progres in the prdvazation program. More than 30 special
commts  are fidly operational. Privaization plans have been approved by COPRI for roughly 20
SOEs. Sice late May, eight priaizadons have been completed iding U.S$80 million), Including
holdings in mining (Mi    Condestable and Minpeco USA), banking (Banco de Comercio),
cdemicals (Quimpac), ship repair (Inasa), urbn aport (452 buses of the Lima bus company), and



-2 -
hydrocarbons (Solgas and 74 of Petropu's 82 gas stations). A dozen additional holdings are slated
for sale in the next ftree months. In 1993-94, the Government plans to privadze its larger holdings.
6. In all sectots, the Govemnment is enacting new polic, legal and regulatory measures to
promote competiton and pivate investm  and to fcilitate privadzation. Recent economy-wide
measres include eactment of new anti-trust and labor legislation. New sectoral legislation has been
passed for tlecommunications a  mining, and draft laws have been prepared for electricity,
hydrocabons, and fisheries. A new water sector law Is also under preparation. Annex 2 summaIzes
the Government's privatization program and setoral policy/regulatory reforms.
BLQ M          Y for B Dkfim
7. Since May 1991, the Bank has been work;ng closely with the Government to help prepare
and implement the privaization program and related sectoral policy/reglaory reforms. Bank support
has been provided primaiy through te cal assistane, fanced by a US$3.2 million Japanese
privatzaton grant approved In August 1991. Under the SAL, the Bank has agreed with the
Government on sectora  'vtIZ8tion strategies for thae mining, hydrocarbons, electricity,
elecommnications, transportaton, fisheries, nufctrg, and water sectors. Impleration of
these strategies will be supported by several Bank operatons, including: (a) dtis proposed TA loan;
(b) a proposed Prvation Adjustm   Loan which will support privazton and policy/regulatory
reforms in mining, hydroarbns, telecomunications, water, fisheries and industry; (c) the Financial
Sector Reform Loan (approved in June 1992), which is supporting privatizatlon of the banks; (d) a
prposed Engy and Mining TA Loan which will support Implementation of new sectoral
policy/regultory responsibilities in a liberized, privadzed setting; (e) a proposed Power Sector
Privatization Adjustment Loan; and (t) sector investment loans being prepared for transport and
water/sewerage, which will include prvatization components.
LLeaLemed *om Past cW &Woects
S. The desigl of the privaization and regulatory reform program (to be supported by the
Privatizatlon Adjustment Loa) and the technical assistance program (to be supported by this TA loan)
reflect lessons learned from international experience in privatization and regultory reform, and the
prior TA loan in Peru in the mid-1980s for public sector management. Key lessons include, inter
alia, the need to: (a) introdace policy/regulatory reforms to ensure competition prior to, or in parallel
with, prvatzation; (b) limit the scope and size of the TA loan to keep it focussed and manageable;
(c) have well-defined loan adminisaton/financng arragements; and (d) have a foca point to co-
ordinate the privatization progam and supporting TA Cn Peru's case, co-ordinaton is handled by
COPRI and is technical secretariat). Annex 3 sets out relevant lessons and their implications for this
loan in geater detail.
9. The main objective of the project Is to assist the Government in the preparation and
implemen tion of its privatzation program and related sectoral policy, legal and reguatory reforms.
These measure would promote competiton and private investment (domestic and foreign); and
conibute to improved fiscal perfomance and economic efficiency.



-3-
10.   The project consists of the following components:
-    COPRI secrtarat and spedal committees: US$7.9 million (base costs) to fiance: (a) fixed-
term consltants in COPRI's technical secretariat for up to three years; (b) fixed-term
presidents, assistants and technical coordinators for each of the major special committees (all
COPMI secreariat and special committee personnel will be fixed-term jonsultants); and (c)
office support for the COPRI technical secretarit and special committees.
-    Infonnatlon/promotional and socia! Impact progams: US$6.8 million (base costs) to finance
consulting services to (a) promote, domestically and internationally, privatization and private
investment in Peru, and (b) develop information and re-orientation programs to assist laid off
SOE workers. 'he latter will be modelled after the programs currently being implemented by
Hierro Peru (the iron ore company) to advise Its displaced workers on possible
savings/mvestment options, seing up microenterpries, etc.
-    privatiation and policy/regulatory reforms: US$24.2 million (base cosu) In consulting
services to assist with the preparation and implementation of the Govermuent's privatzation
program and related sectoral policy/regulatory reforms (where necessary). The sectoral
coverage would include mining, hydrocarbons, telecommunications, electricity, fisheries,
air/urban transport, industry, water, and banking. The consulting services would involve: (a)
the preparation of new sectoral laws/regutations; (b) financial, labor, legal and environmental
audits; (c) valuations: and (d) preparation of sales documentation.
Annex 2 describes the agenda for privatization and policy/regulatory reforms, and the activities to be
fanced under the project (more detail is available in the project files).
>oWect Cost and Financing
11.   The total esmated cost of the TA program is US$43.3 million, including US$3.5 million in
price coningencies. The Bank, through the TA loan, will finance US$30 million in conslting
services, including a management agency fee. The Government wiUl finance US$6.8 mfllion,
including partal costs of consulting services, as well as all office support for the COPRI secreta
and special committees. The Government's share will be financed through the Privatization Fund
(FOPRI), which receives 2% of the proceeds of privadzation as well as contributions from SOEs
towards the cost of consulting services. The Privatization Fund is managed by COPRI. The -
remaining US$6.5 million is being funded with parallel bilateral and multilateral grants, including: (a)
three Japanese grants totalling US$4.5 million for project preparation, including for privatization
(US$3.2 million), energy (US$700,000), and water (US$600,000); (b) US$550,000 in grants from
UNDP for general privatization support and periodic program evaluations; (c) US$1,000,000 in
gran  from the Andean Development Fund (CAF) in general privatization support (US$500,000) and
to asist with the privatization of Centromin (US$500,000); and (d) an expected US$500,000 grant
fom Canada to assist with privatization of Pescaperu (fish processing). Since direct World Bank
financing cannot be provided undl arrears clearance, much of the TA currently being contracted by
the Government for privatization is being fianced from these bl'.teral and multilateral sources.
Schedtle A sets out the project costs and financing plan (additiohal details are provided in Annex 1).
Also atached are schedules B (Procurement and Disbursement tables), C (ilmetable of Key Project
Proceig Events) and D (Stats of Bank Group Operations in Peru).



-4-
12.   All consultng contracts will be parallel finced, rather than cost-shared, for administrative
simpliciq. The financing plan Is set out In Annex 1. Up to 10% of the Bank loan (i.e. US$3
million) can be applied retroactively to consuldtg contracts financed by the Govenment up to one
year prior to loan signing, provided the Bank gave its prior no-objection for the hiring and contracting
of these consultants, in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Proect lppltXeSo
13   The project will be managed by the COPRI technical secretariat. A TA coordinator has been
hired by the secretariat to coordinate all consultant contracting under the project. Under COPRI's
overal management and supervision, the special privatization committees will have primary
responsibility (subject to approval by the COPRI secretariat and World Bank no-objection) for
preparing terms of reference and short lists, and selecting consultants. All consultants financed by the
Bank will be selected and hired in accordance with the Bank's 'Guidelines for Use of Consultants".
For consulting contracts financed by ether sources under the project, the Bank will review the terms
of reference to ensure that the proposed consulting tasks are consistent with the objectives and
implementation plan for the overall privadzation program. COPRI has issued operating guidelines to
the speci commies, setting out their responsibilities and the process to be followed in the
preparation 4nd implementation of individual privatizations, covering, inter alia the preparation of
privatization ylans; hiring of consultrts to assist with the technical studies; valuation and pricing;
public     e s; pre-quification of bidders; preparation of the bidding and sales documents;
the bidding and sales process; and employee paiticipation. As the program progresses and additional
exprience is gained, COPRI will modify the guidelines as necesary, subject to the Bank's
concurrence. A management agency will be contracted by the Government to administer the contracts
and disbursements. The Government has proposed, and the Bank has agreed, to use UNDP as the
management agency. The procedural steps and responsibilities of COPRI, the special committes and
UNDP respectively, are summarized in Annex 4.
ftject Sustanablity
14.  Given that the Goverment intends to complete the plvatization program by mid-1995, the
implementing agencies (COPRI and the special committees) are expected to have fixed terms.
Nevertheless, the TA loan is also supporting the development of new legal/regulatory frameworks for
several sectors (particularly electricity, telecommunications, water, and fisheries), consistent with
liberalization and privatization. As follow-up, the institutional strengthening of new streamlined
regulatory entities in these sectors will be supported by other loans and grants. The proposed IBRD
Energy and Mining TA Loan will support the implementation of new institutional arrangements in
mining, electricity and hydrocarbons. The proposed Lima Water Project will, inter alia, provide
follow-up support to the new water sector regulatory agency. Similarly, the OAS Is planning to
provide a grant for institutional development of the new telecommunications regulatory agency.
Agree Actions
15.  DurIng negoions, agreement was obtained on: (a) the specific consulting tasks and
financing plan (Annex 1), including the division of contracts for financing by the Bank and the
Government respectively; (b) a detailed implementation timetable for the privatization program and
related sectoral policy, legal and regulatory reforms; (c) operational guidelines for the special
comittees, seng out the process for preparing/implementing the individual prnvatizations including
the procedures for consultant hiring, contracting and supervision). COPRI has issued these guidelines



.5 -
to ti e special committees; (d) the amount to be allocated from the loan, and the fee stmcture, for
remuneration of the fixed-term consultants in the COPRI technical secretariat and the special
committees (the allocation for the special committees will not exceed 10% ef the loan amount); (e) a
draft letter of agreemnt for UNDP to manage TA contract disbursements under the Loan; and (f)
terms of reference for consulting assistance to prepare/implement the major privatizations.
16.  As a condition of effectiveness, the Government will sign an agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, with UNDP to manage contract disbursements under the Loan.
17. During project implenentation, COPRI will submit: (a) an annual external audit report of the
Project accounts; (b) a forecast of the project revenues and expenditures for the next year; and (c) a
semi-annual report on the results of the privatization/regulatory reform program, as well as the TA
program, for the prior six months. As well, during project implementation, the Bank and the
Government will review on a semi-annual basis the impl mentation timetable and agree on any
modifications, as deemed necessary.
EAs ,DAects
18. Environmental category C. The TA loan has no direct environmental impact. The TA loan
wil, however, finance consultants to undertake environmental audits for mining, hydrocarbon and
industrial companies being privatized under the proposed Privatization Adjustment Loan. As well,
new owners will be subject to all present and future applicable environmental laws and standards.
Pron 53b eveeateg-or es
19.  The project, by supporting privatization and policy reforms for increased private investment,
will contribute to private sector development and improvad public sector management.
Beueflts
20.   Peru has launched a far-reaching and difficult privatization and deregulation program, yet has
limited capacity within the public sector to prepare and implement the program. Hence, the TA Loan
wfll provide critical support in designing and implementing the Government's privatization program
and related policy/regulatory reforms. Ihese reforms are expected to help restore private sector
confidence and investment, enhance competition and economic efficiency, and contribute to improved
fiscal performance.
Xkka
21.   There are two main risks: (a) that privatzation will get delayed as a result of domestic
political opposition or foreign investor reluctance to invest in Peru at this time, given the political and
security problems and the fragiity of the macroeconomic program; and (b) that the limited
administrtive capacity will make It difficult for the Government to coordinate and manage the
technical assistance to be provided under the TA Loan. To address the risks facing the overall
privatization program, the Government must continue its structurl reform program and sustain its
recent sound maco nomic performance. Regarding the limited administrative capacity, the
appointment of an Executive Secretary and technical secretariat for COPRI in February 1992 has
strengthened the Govnent's capacity to manage both the overall privatization program and the
associated technical assistance program being financed by this Loan.



-6-
22. I am satisfied that the loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement, and recommend dh
the Executive Directrs approve IL
Lewis T. Preston
?-esident
by Attla Karaosmanoglu
A_achments
Washington, D.C.
November 4, 1992



-7-
PERU
PIUVATIATION TECHNCAL ASSANCE PROJECT
Proet  CM  and landg Plan
(USS million)
Eidmated Project Costs:
LcAl           Forign             Total
A. General Support
COPRI scretar                   2.0              0.5              2.5
Special committees               uu5
Total general support          7.0             .0.9              7.9
B. forma/promotloal programs         1.8             5.0              6.8
(including social impact)
C. Privatzation and
Regulatory Reoms
Mnig                            0.6              2.5              3.1
Hydrocarbons                    1.7              4.9              6.6
Telecom                         0.6              1.9              2.5
Power                           0.9              4.4              5.3
Water                           0.6              1.9              2.5
Fisheries                       0.2              0.9              1.1
Steel                           0.1              0.4              0.5
Transport                       0.1              0.2              0.3
Banksl0.1                                        0.2              0.3
Other                           Lo               LQ               LO
Total privationlregulatory reform  5.9            18.3              24.2
D. Ad mhd -tratlFee                 0.9              0.0              0.9
Total Base Cost (A+B+C+D)           15.6            24.2             39.8
Price Contigencies                   1.4             2.1              3.5
Total Project Cost                  17.0            26.3             43.3
inancing Pla:
IBRD                                7.5             22.5             30.0
Governmenof Peu                     6.5              0.3              6.8
Total:                           17.0            26.3              43.3
1/ Includes parallel fimding from Japan, Canada, CAP and UNDP



PERU
PRIVATEZATION T1CRNCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECr
ITe Bank loan wil fae local and lbnationlal cowalti  ueicu. AUl  ndsti  srvics
will be procured In accotdace with World Bank Ouldelines for Use of Conult  by
Wodd Bank and by Ihe Wodd Bank as Execuaig Agecy.0
hmhate,, Dim  (usa            S$ milion):
Anmnal                        4.5         9.0         9.0         7.5
Cunulave                     4.5         13.5        22.5        30.0



.9
PERU
PIVATIMATION T aCAL ASSLSTANCE PROJECT
SmeamLof Kb ifS    ng Emu
(a) Time t     tn prepa           6 month
(b) Prpaed by:                    COPM1 tec sicactart with hsnk assistance
(c) Appraisal mission d rure:     June 1992
(d) Negotation:                   October 1992
(e) Planned date of effectvenes   Januay 1993
(f) List Of reev   PCRs and PPARs: PCR No. 10457 - Peru Public Seor Mageme  Project



- 10 -
Pagp 1 of 2
3M STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERAnNOS IN MElu
A. SUAMMARY   A    OF LOAS
(As of Septme 30 1992)
Amount ls
(USS milin
Sixty (60) Louws hilly disbused                                   1201.69
of wvih ProSram Loa V
*1693     1979      Peru          Prram I.o a00
3437 1    1992     Peru          Trad Pocy Reorm.                  300.00         300.00
3452 1    1992     Peru          Stu    A4jutm                     300.00         300.00
3489 3    1992     Peru          Fil Sector Adjusmt                   .00          00.00
TOTAL                                         2201.69
of wbichlas been repWd                        42:;
Totd now outstaing                           1702.41
Amount sold             18.31
of which bes beenrepaid   18.3                 1&.3
Total now hld by Bank
Totd undisbursed                                             IO00
* SECAL, SAL or Prga  Loan
LIApprovd duriSqFY79
LI Not yot asned
NOTE.   Me sIats of the prects listed in Prt A is descred ins a sepat rpt o all BankIlDA tinsnced
projets in emecon, which is xupdatedtwice yeAly and  ircu    to tie Executive Dectors on Ap  30
and Ocrte 31.



- 11 -
Page 2 of 2
S}. STATEMENT OF IFCR INVESM
(As of Septembe 30, 1992)
USS Miiion
Date ITows lVOoof usine           Low        iyk loa       l
1979183186190       ueuvetum           Metal Oe Mining                    6.00        2.97        8.97
1986               CARISA              Non-Ferro  Oto Ming                6.00        0.50        6.50
1962               Cemeut Andino       Cemet Lime & Plaster               2.46        0.20        2.66
1982               Covenhua            Electric Ligbt & Power             4.50        -           4.50
197S              Peru Copper          Non-Ferous Ore Minig              15.00        -          15.00
1960              Durisol              Fabri Metll Products               0.30        -           0.30
1960162           Fertlirantes         Fettilizers & Pesticides           4.09        -           4.09
1960              Lure                 Non-Metallic Mid PR                0.28        -           0.28
1985               Minea  Regina       Non-Fems Orfe Mng                  6.08        0.24        6.32
1986              Orcopaps             Non-Ferou Ore Minig                9.00        -           9.00
1964/67           PacasMyo            Crot  Lme & plastr                  1.60        Q0.5        2.10
1983              Paln                 Vegetable & Aimal O               15.00        -          1S.00
98i                Podeossa             Non-Femo       Mlnizg             3.30                    3 3.30
1960              Rounidas             Fabric Metal Products              0.2S        -           0.25
1980185            SIMSA               Non-Fetro  Ore mining              6.70        0.50        7.20
1982/92            SOGEWESE            Leag Companies                    13.00        157        14.S7
Total Gos Commitment                                  93.56        6.47      100.03
Less Caelins, Teminazious
and Sales                                            8344          ,           21
Totd      t      now held by IFC                      10.11        3.70       13.82
Total UL0 Abursed



- 12 -
PERU
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Technical Annexes
Annex 1      Dtiled Project Cos  and Finwcing Plan
Annex 2      Peru's Privatization Program and Policy/Regulatory Reforms
Annex 3      Summary of Lessons of Bank/Inenatonal Experience
Annex 4      Summary of TA Procedures and Responsibilities



- 13 -
ANNm I
Pap I of 2
PMRU PRIVAIzAtION TECHNICAL ASSISTANE LOAN
Detailed Project Costs ad Financgn Plan
(USS BoOs)
ACTIVITY                                 TOTAL COST         FPIACIN  SOURCE
TAL    6OP C)    OTIER  (Soure)
A. GENEtAL P3OGRAN SUPPORT
COPRI Secretariat                      2470        BO                  1590 Jo Priv (1290) UNP (300)
Special Coomittees                     5400       2700        2o0
Total genra program support              70         3580        2700    1590
S. INORNATIONPRONOTIONAL AD
SOCIAL INPACT PROGRASM
1omec  Informstion/romotfon            1320         750        545       25 JO Priv
Internattontl Prowtion                 SOOO      S500
Social 4#Ct Programs                    SO5        300                  200 UDP
Total informatiwnprotnt
ad socal ipwct prosr                      6           050         S4       225
C. PRIVATIZATION AND
P0LICY/REWLATORY REFORMS
(a) Mining
Privatizaitfn (mnct arwt'l audfts):
Nierro Poru                               660                    260      400 Jo PriY
Centroln                                 1220                            1220 J6 Priv (720), CAF (500)
neror Peu                                1130        550                  S80 Jo Pr1v
Condestable                                70                     70
Total Nining                                3080        550         330    2200
(b) NydroArbom
Mew Hydrocarbons Law ad tax regim            350                            350 JO Energy
Privatizatoinu
PetrOperu                               5225       5075                  150 CAF
s.hidiaries                             1000                   1000
Tutl Hydrocrbm                             6575       5075        1000    S0
(c) t.lecoinmucation
Draft ewgation  for Telecom Law              300         50         250
Desgn competitiw  tr_ork for srcter         400        3S0                   50 Jo Priv
and tariff structure
Privatizatfon of Entel & CPT                1800       l8OO
Total Tole                               2500       2200         250       SO
(0 Water
New aector lt.Uretulatfon                    300                             300 Jo Water
Dign wter roeurcemn _oment regime            10                              ISO Js water
Desig  regulatory  ency                      1SO                             150 JG htr
Privatfatfn of SEPL (LIM)                   1900        1600                 100 CAF
Total Water                                2500       1800                  700



- 14 -
AM= 1
Page 2 of 2
ACTIVITY                                   TOTAL CosT           FINACING SOURCE
(US$ 000.)      TAL      OFP ()    OTHER (Source) (if)
Ce) Electricity
New sector law/regulatory ftrework            350                              350 J Energy
Privatizatfmn:
Electrolim                                1800        1S00
Electroperu                               2200        2200
Regianl Utilities                         1000        1000
Total Electricity                            5350        5000                 350
(f) Fisheries
Mew sector law/regulstory framework             50                              50 Jo Priv
Privatiastion of Poscaperu                    1070        450           25     S9S Canad
Totat Fisheres                               1120        450          25      64S
Sidewperu privatization                       550         550
(h) Transport
Aeroperu Prlvatietion                          285                     45       240 JA Priv
Ci) Banks
Prfevtizatfon of Interbws* S Contfnenttl      250          250
Ci) Other MOEs                               2000         500        1500
Total Privatilatfonglegulatory Reform        24210        1637S       3150    4685
ADUINISTATION PEE                                900        900
TOTAL BASE COST                           39B00       26905        6395    6500
Prfeo Contftgenhef                         3500        3095         405
TOTAL PROAJECT CT                        43300       30000        6800    6500
Ci)  Internat SOE funds . proceeds from privatifstfon
(fi) Includes: Japanese Grant for Privatiation, Japanes Grant for Water,
Jpanese 6'rant for Energ, Andean Devencptmnt Fund (CAf) grants, Cenada grant (fisheries)
UmP grant (general privatlation swOort)
note: cost estfat1es oeclude success fees (to be Ifnenced from sale proceeds)



- 15 -
ANNEX 2
PERU PRIVATIZATION TECICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
Pamus PKMIAOB dof         Pod M ynteator Reforms
A.   fi_ 
1.    SOEs ia the Enm . Statowed etpriss (SOEs) play an importt role in the
economy. During the 1980s, SOEs accouned for roghly 15% of GDP, 30% of merchandise exports
and 7% of employment In the non,agricultural formal sector. Tno rnmb  of SOs  creased from
29 In 1968 to 177 by 1990, as thi result of nationalidc policies to increase  thestates opDertons
preclude foreign invm t In secrs considered to be strategic, and generate surplus funds to
finance deveopme. Seventy-six firm  wee acquired  oh  naioalization; many operate in key
secto, such as mining, and were proftable before nationaizato   Curently, SOEs are dominant in
many sectors,   uding: oillgae m  and its downtrem  ubsidia); minin  principally,
Centron, Hierro Peu nd Mineo Peru); electicity (Elecima, Electroperu and the regional
utilities); telecommicatios (te Government holds 21% of Lima-based CPr and 100% of Entel,
wich operates outside Lima); and water. Ihe Govenm   also has major holdings in banking and
manufacturig (steel, pulp/pae, chemicals). Aggregat SOE assets total roughly US$8 billion (year-
end 1991 book value).
2.        E penn . Tho finanCial performance of the SOE sector has generally been poor, and
worsened during the latter half of the 1980s due to Peru's economic turmoil and the consequent
diculty of most SOEs in meeting their finacing needs. Continued use of public sector prices by
the pio  goverment t con    inflationay pressures led to a sharp fall in the sectr's revenues
fom n avera of over 25% of GDP in 1980-8S to less than 11% in 1989-90. Until recenty, the
wage bill alw contiued to increase as a proportion of expendtures due to faster wag adjusmet
and inased mployment; employme  in the sector doubled to over 200,000 in the second half of
the 1980s. These deveopments reduced the sector's curent acount savings from 2.3% of GDP in
198S to 0.2% of GDP in 1990. Lack of inter  funds and externa finacing have in turn caused a
sharp reduction in maienanc and investent expenditures - SOE investment as a proportion of
GDP fell from 4.3% in 1981-85 to 1.8% In 1986-89 and to less than 1% in 1990. Most SOEs were
operating at a loss by 1989, when aggrega net losses totaled US$ 531 mfilion equivalent. Net
losses imprved slighdy In 1990 to US$174 million, reflecting sharp price increases implemented by
the new Government in Augst 1990 in key public services. Total SOE debt is US$ 5.2 billion,
including US$ 3.1 billion In domestic liabilites and USS 2.1 billion in external debt.
3.    PviSince taldw g office in mid-1990. the new Government has been
hmpemnpteg major stuc        refrms Involving trade, price and exchange rate liberalization,
together with fiscal and monetay measures to reduce iflation and the budget deficit. In mid-1991,
the Government decided to expand Its reform program to include prvazaton, wih the objective of
privty g dll SOBs by mid-19 when Its term expie. A legislatve decee (0674) was passed in
Septemba 1991 establng the broad lega and Insdtutional framework for privtzadon. The decree
set up an ntr-minlstir  commisson (COPRI), under the direct superisio of the President, to
overse the prvatzadon program. The technical prepartory work is to be caried out in a
decentalized manner by spedal commit    which are designated by COMRI for either one or a group
of SOEs. Decrew 674 authorizes a wide range of padtizaton methods (e.g. sale of shares, increase
in share capital, sale of assets) and the establishment of a revolving Privization Fund (POPRI) which



- 16 -
ANNEX 2
would be allotaed two percet of the privatatio proceeds to finance prvatzatlon- related expenses.
COPRI will determine the Fund's Wilization.
4.                            . A small technical secrebria to support COPRI was established
in Februay 1992. As well, more than 30 special committees have been appointed to
prepareiimplemet individual privatizations. Start-up fding for COPRI's secretaiat and the spe
committees has been provided through bilate  grants. COPRI has established a process for specia
committe reotg. Under this process, privaizaon plans prepared by the speci committees have
been approved by COPRI for roughly 20 SOEs. Since late May, eight privaiatons have boee
completed (yielding US$80 milion In cash proceeds), iluding holdings in mining ( era
Condestable and Minpeco USA), bankdng (Banco de Comercio), chemicals (Quimpac), ship repair
(s8), urban transport (452 buses of the Lima bus company), and hydrocarbons (Solgas and 74 of
Petrperu's 82 gas stadons). A dozen additional holdings are slated for sale in the next four mont,
including: the niona airline (Aeroperu); the iron ore company (Hierro Peru); a petroleum refinery
(ConcJar) and shipping company (Petrolera Tasoceanica); the remaiing Petroperu gas stations; a
commerial bank (Banco Popular), three industri companies (Cementos Lima, Reactivos Nacionales,
Byer Industal), an agro-indusil firm (Easa); and the remaining ships of the shipping company
(CPV).
S.    In 1993-94, the Govenment expects to privatize its larger, more complex holdings, including
the remaining ming SOEs (Centromin and Minero Peru, which wfll be privatzed in several units),
the telecom holdings (Ent  and CPT), the oil company (Peu), the major fish processing
compqy (PescaperU), the major electricity SOEs (Electrolima, Electropen), the Lima wat company
(Sed[aVa), the steel company (Siderp), the pulp and paper company (Paramonga), and the
remaning state-owned bans. DIudng May, the Governmen appointed speCial privatizaon
committees for aU these holdins. Preliminary technical work is well underway. These prions
ae e     t o require a longer preparatory period to address policv and regulatry issues and/or
sensitve labor and politcal issues.
6.    The Project will finance consulting services to assist COPRI and the special com s
prware and implement the privadzation agenda Specificaly, the Project will finance: (a) fied-term
consultants and office support for the COPRI secretaiat and specil committ; (b) consultng
services for domestic and international nformation and promotional campaigs for Peru's
privsxatio program; and (c) comwltas to carry out valuations and audits (financial, labor, legal
and envirom ) and to prepare the salesibidding documents for all major SOEs on the
Govenmen's privazation agenda (Annex 1 provides a cost breakdown for each major SOE).
7.    Latb: To cuts cos, SOEs have been impling workforce reductions for the past 24
months. Ihe scope of these reductions is significant and will continue to increase in the coming year.
More than 10,000 SOB employees have been aid off since mid-1990 (all through voluntary
acceptance of sevece pakages), fnanced through in    SOE funds, loats  from the Banco de la
Nacion, and budgetary trsfer. Ihe level of severance pay is based on contacu  obligations.
Further workforce reductions (toalling roughsy 15,000) are expected to be Implemented in the SOEs
to be prhvtized, prior to sale, in order to eub ;e the success of the privazationprogram. Ihese
costs wil be fnded, if necessay, from budgcar allocations (US$70 million has been budgeted fr
1992).



- 17 -
ANNEX 2
Pae 3 of S
8.    The impact of labor reductihns may be particularly adverse in communities where SOEs are
the major employer (e.g. Hierro Pewu in San Juan de Marcona, Siderperu in Chimbote, Centromin in
La Oroya). Hierro Peru developed a program whereby workers are provided with information on
savings/investment instruments, as well as information on how to start commercial and productive
activities like taxis, microbuses, microenterprises, retail outlets, and other small manufacturing and
service activides. The program also facilitates the subcontracting of some SOE non-core activities to
dismissed workers. Given the apparent success to date of this program, the Project will finance
consulting services to develop and implement similar programs in other communities where SOEs are
the major employers (e.g. Chimbote, Paramonga, and the mining communities).
B.    Sectoral Policy and Regulatory Reforms
8.    Economy-wide. In 1990, the Government implemented trade, price and exchange rate
liberalizadon. New anti-trust and labor legislation was enacted in 1991; fiuther modifications to the
labor legislation were enacted recently to facilitate labor mobility. The Bankruptcy Law will be also
be modified. The Government has also launched a major effort to improve tax adminisaon  d
collections.
9.    Hydrocarbons. Despite its potential, the hydrocarbons sector's performance deteriorated
sharply through the 1980s, as Peru became a net petroleum importer. Many of the problems
stemmed from the heavily controlled policy environment and the monopoly position held by
Petroperu. The new Government's objectives are to deregulate the sector, encourage private
investment, and privatize Petroperu and its subsidiaries. A 1991 decree eliminated Petroperu's
downstream monopoly and modified procedures to facilitate contracting out of
exploration/development to the private sector. A new hydrocarbons law is being prepared to
liberal the sector and to transfer the policy/regulatory functions from Petroperu to the Government.
Domestic petroleum product prices were increased by 3000% in August 1990 (gasoline prices are
roughly US$3/gallon) and were recently filly deregulated. A new tax regime for petroleum products,
combining an excise tax with a value-added tax (consistent with the economy-wide VAI) is being
developed and will be implemented by mid-1993. New contractual arrangements for private sector
exploration and development are being prepared. Petroperu and Its subsidiaries will be privatized,
with TA financed under the Project. The proposed Energy and Mining TA Loan (a separae TA loan
under preparation) will finance TA to assist with implementing the revised policy/regulatory
arrangements for the sector.
10. MIninB. The new Government has enacted a series of measures to deregulate mining (which
accounts for 12% of GDP and 50% of exports) and open the sector to private investment. These
measures include: (a) issuance of a decree in July 1991 authorizing private sector ownership of a
minimum of 51% of the major govermnent holdings (Centromin, Hierro Peru and Minero Peru); (b)
enactment in November 1991 of a new Mining Law (Decree 708) which: established transparent rules
for granting concessions for exploration and exploitation of minerals and metals; ensures mining
companies the right to remit profits, free access to foreign exchange and the right to feely market
their production, both abroad and locally. Regulations for the law are currently being prepared; (c)
release, for private sector exploration, of more than two million hectares of land previously reserved
for the tte companies; and (d) Initiation of the reorganon and streamlining of the sector agencies
to facitate granting concessions for private exploration/development. All mining SOEs will be



- 18 -
ANNEX 2
Pag2 4 of 5
privaized, with TA financed under the Project. The proposed Energy and Mining TA Loan will
finance TA to assist with the implementation of the new policy/regulatory responsibilities.
11.   Telecommunications: Telecom service in Peru is very undeveloped - Peru has only 2.6 lines
per hundred population (compared to 10.2 in Argentina and 8.2 in Venezuela). The lack of service
reflects several factors: prior legal restrictions on private and foreign investment; erosion of real
tariffs from 1980-90; and the sector organization and revenue-sharing arrangements, whereby Entel
(the wholly-owned SOE controlling long distance service, as well as local service outside Lima) is
cross-subsidized by the Lima-based company, CPT. To address these problems, the new Government
inroduced a number of reforms: (a) telephone rates were increased by 1000% in August 1990 and
have been periodically adjusted since then; (b) in November 1991, a new Telecommunications Law
was enacted, establishing a liberalized framework to promote comnpetition and private (including
foreign) investment. Ihe Law also streamlines the existung regulatory agency, consistent with
liberalization of the sector. As next steps, the existing service arrangements and concessions will be
mwdified, consiste  with the new liberalized regime, and as part of the privatization program for the
Govemment's holdings (Entel and CPTI). Regulations for the new law will be drafted and the
regulatory agency will be reorganized. The Project will finance consulting services to assist with
prepaing the regulations, designing a new tariff structure and preparing the Government's holdings
for privatization.
12.   Electriity: Peru is currently facing electricity shortages, with many regions experiencing
rationing up to 25% (much of this can be attributed to water shortages). The new Government
increased electricity rates by 1000% upon taking office in 1990 and rates have been periodicaly
adjusted since. Most recently, the Governent approved firther substant  rate increases for July,
August and September 1992. A new Electricity Law is currently being drafted with TA financed by
the Japanese energy sector gramt. The Law will, inter alia, facilitate competition and revise the tariff
structure and adjustment mechanism. The sector is being restructured to separate generation,
transmisson and distnrbution, permit competition in generation, and create an independent regulatory
agency. All electricity SOEs wi1l be privatized, commencing with Electrolima, followed by
Electroperu and then the regional utilites. The Project will finance consulting services to assist with
preparing and implementng these privatizations. The Energy and Mining TA Loan will finance TA
to support the new sectoral institutional and regulatory arrangements.
13.   Transport. Urban, inter-urban, and air transport, as well as shipping, have all been
liberalized over the past year, eliminating prior entry/route restrictions and deregulating prices.
Cargo handling in the ports has been privaffzed. The shipping SOE (CPV) is being liquidated, as is
the urban bus company, Enatru (452 of Enatru's buses were sold via auction to Enatru employees in
July and August). Ihe national airline (Aeroperu) will also be privaized, with TA financed under the
Project.
14.   Fhies. Fisheries is a key sector, contributing roughly $500 million annually in export
earnings (15% of total Peruvian exports). Anchovy and sardines account for 90% of fishmeal and
fish-oil production. Apart from the problem of inefficiency in Pescaperu (fish processing SOB), there
is also a serious over-fishing problem in the case of anchovy and sardines due to the absence of an
effective fisheries resources management regime to ensure biological sustainability as well as to help
optmize economic benefits for the country. To a-dress this problem, a new fisheries law and
magement regime are being prepared. An international conference was held recently to exchange



- 19 -
ANNEX 2
Page S of S
views on other counties' experience and to provide a basis for preparing a new fisheries lawlregime.
A draft fisheries law has since been prpared by a governmental task fbrce. Pescapere's 20
processing plants will be privatized (all vessels are already private). Ihe Project will finance
consulting services to assist with the design and implementation of the new legal/regulatory
framework, as welt as the privatization of Pescaperu and its subsidiaries.
15.   Water. As with electricity, there is water rationing in Lima. Rates were increased 1000% In
August 1990 and have been periodically adjusted since. A new water sector law is being prepared,
ensurIng adequate water quality and access to service, and fostering private sector participation. An
autonomous regulatory agency will also be established. In parallel, a special privadzation committee
has been appointed for privatizing the Lima company, Sedapal. The Project will finance consulting
services to assist with the design of the new legal/regulatory framework for the sector and the
privatfzation of Sedapal.



- 20 -
ANNEX 3
EpJC I of 2
PERU PRIVATIZATION TECHICAL ASSISrANCE PROJECT
Sa== of Lessons of BD ExUUdrienc
The design of both the prvatiton program and related policy/relatory reforms (ben
supported by the Privatation Adjustment Loan) and the techncal assistance program (being
sUPPOrt  by this TA loan) reflect lessons learned from: (a) international privatization experience (see
CEC's paper 'Privatization: Lessons of Experience". April 1992); (b) international regulatory
expeience; and (c) the prior Public Sector Management TA loan to Peru in the mid-1980s. These
lessons are summarized below.
Ponain EferienALem«ns: The policy, legal and institutional framework adopted for
Peru's privatization program reO-dct lessons of inteaional experience. These lessons include, intr
alia: (a) the need for an enablinb macroeconomic policy framework; Peru has been implemeng a
major stabiation program since mid-1990; (b) the importance of introducing sectoral
policylregulatoy reforms to ensure competition prior to, or in parallel with, privaization; (c) the
need to ensre transparency and consist   in the privatization program through competitive bidding
and centralizing policy and decision-making (in Peru's case in an inr-ministerial commission -
COPRI, while also ensuring speed through decetralized implementation (in this case, by special
committees); (d) the importae of public awareness campaigns to build public support and
undersanding (COPRI has tiad  a public information program and the Project will finance its
contiuation; and (e) that privadzation requires multi-disciplinary technical assistance (economic,
legal, fiacial, technical, etc). This technical assistance will be financed by the proposed TA loan.
Rods= ene       i/L mjsons: Peru's program also reflects three key lessons emerging from
international expedence in regulatory reform:
-    the need to establish, on both an economy-wide and sectoral basis, a broad enabling legal
framework to foster competition, private investment and reliance on market forces. In Peru,
new enabling legislation is being enacted in virtually all setors, deregulaig and llizing
the sectors and fostering competition and private investment (see annex 2);
-    in "non-tradeables* (e.g. electricity, telecommunications), it is possible to segment activities
and introduce competition it many previously-monopolistic activities (e.g. electricity
generation). Where some activities remain natura monopolies, it is possible to introduce
oestaility through, for example, compewtive bidding on concessions. In Perus program,
all privatizations will be preceded by a thorough analysis of the structr options to ensure that
alternatives for increasing competition and contestability have been fully examined.
-    regulatory arrangements (i.e. for non-trdeables) shoud be streamined to avoid regulatory
burden and to ensure greater reliance on market-based incentives and competition/
contestability. Even where price reg     is required (e.g. local residentia telephone rates,,
the need for regulatory intervention can be reduced by having rates adjusted trough an
automatic price cap mechanism (e.g. consumer price index minus a productivity factor) which
could be incorporated in the concession contact. Avoiding complex and burdensome
regation is particularly important in Peru, given the imited technical/administrative capacity.



- 21 -
ANNEX 3
Pe  of 2
TA I&ncaAin inhm: A mid-1980s TA loan to PeMu to strengthen public setor
management had generaly poor resuts. While tis project was gared towards public sctr
management rather than privatzaon the lessons from that projec ae relvt for this loan. Key
lessons, as set out in the recent PCR, include: (a) attempts at public sector managemen  Worm should
be lied in scope and well-focussed in areas where there is strong commtme  at all levels,
paicularly in weak and/or uncertain polidcal nd economic environments. Successes can then senre
as a basis for future reforms; (b) the propoton of unallocated fuis in TA loans and the complexity
of TA shoud be kept to a minimum; (c)  nparency In the funding and seledon of peonnd is
essental t avoid the appearance of politcizadon; (d) susined progress requires governlmef
commitment and a sense of ownership of projec activits; and (e) TA loans require greater
supervision than other projects.
All the abov lessosm have been incorporat  in the design of the TA loaL The loan Is limited
In scope and size to ensure that it is*mnssed nd maageable. Second, a detaied Implementaion
schedule, with dear objectves/outputs, was aeed at negoiadons. Duing project implem on,
the Bank and the Goverment will semi-annuly review the tmetable and agree on modificatons, if
necessary. Third, to ensure satisfacty project aminin and fiancing: (a) a TA coordinator
has been hired for the COPRI technical seretaat; b) operiona guidelines have been issd to the
speci privatzaion committees, specifyig the aragemen  for loan administion and consultant
hiring, cnacding and supervision; and (c) UNDP will be contracted by the Govemme to
admit d        e       fr approved conuting contracts under the Project Fourth, terms of
refernce for consltg assie to prpae/mlement the leareglatoy refoms and major
los (telecommunicatns, water, electricity, hydrocarbons) have been agreed. Fitth, to
ensure tansparncy in the sdection of personnl ad to mnhimiz possible civil servaM rentmen
towa   project4inanced consultants, the Bank will ensure that when consutan  are hired under tho
project, their respiiliies wil be limited to fixed-tem, well-defined asks which are not par of the
noma c    serice wodrc As well, there is an agreed fee sructure and a ceiling in the loan amowut
(10%) for rewmuration of special coamt    membe. Finaly, tho fact ta the TA loan i8
integraliy linked to the Privaizon Adjustm    Loan, now beng prepared, will allow closer
supervision of pross and ac@vties.



- 22 -
PERU PVATIZATION TECNCAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
Jim      ro T  Prcd resad Repniitwes
1. Preparstion of Tems of Rfeece (TIOR)
Special Committees prepar draft TOR, with asisace of World Bank when requested. Draft
TOR are submitted to COPMI TA coordinatr for approval and to World Bank for no-
objection prior to issuing to consultants.
2. Ceation of Short L3st for Recruftme. Jf a Firm
Speci Committee8 prepare initl list for reviewlapproval by COPR TA cooinator. Short
list submitted to World Bank for no-objection.
3. Selection of fndividual Consultant
Spei Commies make inal selectin, but send the carriculum vita. (with a justfcaton
of fee), to the COPRI TA coordinor for awval and to the World Bank for no-objectio
4. Draft Letter of Itation, Including Evaluation Criteria, and Contract
Spei Commitees draft the documents (ased on agreed model) and seod them to the Bank
for no-objection.
S. Evauation of Proposls
Spcial Comtes ealuate proposals and sde4 the winnig firTL Before notfying the
firms, the Commits  wil send the eluadon rport and wining proposa to the COPMi TA
coordinator for appv  and to the Bank for no-objec
6. Negotation of Conact
Mhe negoiaton of the conact b badled by the Special Committees (basod on guidelines
Issued by the COPRI TA   ordinatr). Pior to SIMe, the negotaed cotrat should be
sent to the COPRM TA coordinator for approval and to the Bank for no-objecdon.
7. Supervision of Consultants
Supevisons the responsbity of the Speci Co_mmte. Progress reports on tehical
assista  will be included in the cuet overall speal comutee repordag to COPRI.
8. Disusmn
Th Special Committees will prepare payment requests and submit, through the COPRI TA
coordinator, to UNDP for pcsing. UNDP will disburse payment directly to consultants.
The Botrower will request          from the Bank to UNDP in amots of roughly
$S0,000. For contac above $100,000. UNDP will submit a summary sheet with all
relevt docum ion; for conc below $100,000, UNDP wil s it Statement of
Bxpen res ad maintain the upponWg cu        on on file for review by Bank
supervision missions.
9. Audi
An annual audit of the Project accous will be undertaken by independent udir and
submited to the Ban1L



