                                            Documentof
                                         The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                             Report No: 28960-MLI




                               PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                               ON A

                                         PROPOSED GRANT

           INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.7 MILLION(USS2.5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF MALI

                                              FOR A

                    MALIDEVELOPMENT LEARNINGCENTERPROJECT LIL               -

                                            May 20,2004




AFTKL
Africa RegionalOffice
This document has a restricteddistribution andmay beusedby recipientsonly inthe performanceof their
officialduties. Its contentsmay not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange RateEffective May 5,2004)

                           Currency Unit = F CFA
                                 1FCFA = US$ 0.001838
                                  U S $ l = 544.11 FCFA

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1   December31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAP    HIPC Assessment andAction Plan
CAS    Country AssistanceStrategy
CCA    Credit Ceiling Authority
CFAA   Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR   Country ProcurementAssessment Review
DCA    DevelopmentCredit Agreement
DLC    DevelopmentLearningCenter
FMR    Financial MonitoringReport
GDLN   GlobalDevelopmentLearningNetwork
GOM    Government of Mali
GPN    GeneralProcurementNotice
HIPC   Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries
ICR    ImplementationCompletion Report
ICB    Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICT    Information CommunicationTechnology
IDA     Intemational DevelopmentAssociation
ISG     InformationSolutions Group
LIL     Leamingand Innovation Loan
M&E     Monitoringand Evaluation
MOU     Memorandumof Understanding
MOF     Ministry of Finance
NCB    National Competitive Bidding
NGO     Non-Govemmental Organization
PA      ProjectAgreement
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PIP     ProjectImplementation Plan
POM     Project Operations Manual
PRSP    Poverty Reduction StrategyPaper
QCBS    Quality and Cost BasedSelection
SA      SpecialAccount
SPN     SpecialProcurementNotices
SOE     Statement of Expenditures
UNDB    UnitedNations DevelopmentBusiness
WBI     World Bank Institute


                           Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
                        Country Director:    A. DavidCraig
                          Sector Manager:    Nicolas Gorjestani
                       Task Team Leader:     Marc Jean Yves Lixi
1                                                                   I

                                                                                              FOROFFICIAL,USEONLY
                                                                       MALI
                    MALIDEVELOPMENT LEARNING CENTER PROJECT                                                                 .LIL
                                                                 CONTENTS

    A. LILJustification                                                                                                                            Page
       1. What i s to be learned (why the piloting)?............................................................................                     2
       2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives andany follow-on operation)?                                                2
       3. Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise............................                                         3

    B Structure ofthe Pilot
     .
       1. How will the learning take place?.......................................................................................                   5
       2. Outcome-level test to be conducted....................................................................................                     5
       3. Steps Involved inImplementing the Pilot...........................................................................                         5
       4  LearningExpectations to be Documented inthe Pilot........................................................                                  6
       5..Triggers for a Follow-on Operation....................................................................................                     7
       6. Results-based Monitoringand Evaluation Arrangements ..................................................                                     7
    C Componentsandtheir ImplementationArrangements
     .
       1 Project components...........................................................................................................               8
       2..Implementation arrangements...........................................................................................                     8
          a. Procurement.................................................................................................................            9
          b. FinancialManagement.................................................................................................                    9
          c Other...........................................................................................................................
           .                                                                                                                                         10

    D Risks
     .
       1. Social and Environmental Risks......................................................................................                       10
          a. Safeguard Policies......................................................................................................                10
          b. Other social risks........................................................................................................              10
       2. Other Risks......................................................................................................................          11

    E Main Grant Conditions
     .
       1. Effectiveness Conditions..................................................................................................                 12
       2. Other................................................................................................................................      12
    F Readinessfor Implementation..............................................................................................
     .                                                                                                                                               13
    G Compliancewith BankPolicies............................................................................................
     .                                                                                                                                               13

    Annexes
    Annex 1.  Project Design Summary.............................................................................................                    14
    Annex 2.  Project Description......................................................................................................              18
    Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs..............................................................................................                 22
    Annex 4.  Financial Management.................................................................................................                 24
    Annex 5.  Project Processing Schedule.......................................................................................                    26
    Annex 6.  Procurement and DisbursementArrangements...........................................................                                   27
    Annex 7. Documents in the Project File.....................................................................................                     38
    Annex 8.  Statement o f Loans and Credits..................................................................................                     39
    Annex 9.  Country at a Glance.....................................................................................................              41
    Annex 10 Monitoring & Evaluation
            .                                                                                                                                       43

This document has a restricted distributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                     .
without World Bank authorization                             .


                                                   MALI
                                 Mali DevelopmentLearningCenter project LIL
                                                                       -
                                     ProjectAppraisal Document
                                            Africa RegionalOffice
                                                   AFTKL

late: May 20,2004                                      Team Leader: Marc JeanYves Lixi
Sector Manager: Nicolas M.Gojestani                    Sector(s): Generaleducationsector (100%)
Zountry Director: A. DavidCraig                        Theme(s): Administrative and civil service reform (P)
'roject ID: PO82187
LendingInstrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL)


 [ ]Loan       [ ]Credit      [XI Grant     [ ]Guarantee         [ ]Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $2.50

30RROWEWRECIPIENT                                                     0*15                                0.25
D A GRANT FOR POOREST COUNTRY                                I        0.80   I          O.1°1.70 I        2.50



BorrowerlRecipient: GOVERNMENT OF MALI
Responsible agency:
Ministry of Finance
Address: Quartier du Fleuve, BP 234
ContactPerson: Mr.Bakary KonibaTraorC
Tel: (223) 22 57 26/22 58 58             Fax: (223) 22 01 92              Email:
Estimated DisbursementsI Bank FYlUS$mk
    FY    1   2005   I   2006    I  2007   I  2008    I   2009    I

Project implementationperiod: 2005-2009
Expectedeffectiveness date: 10/01/2004 Expectedclosing date: 06/30/2009

A. LIL Justification
1. What is to be learned(why the piloting)?
The main purpose o f this Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) i s to test the effectiveness and
sustainability of a Development Learning Center (DLC) in Mali as part o f a global
knowledge-sharing network to strengthen the capacity o f public, private and civil society decision
makers to design, plan, and manage social and economic development programs.

The Government has expressed interest intraining courses that support the ongoing improvement
initiatives for the civil service and, inparticular, reforms inareas such as health, local government,
legal, and education, as well as in functions related to procurement, accounting, service delivery,
restructuring, budgeting, performance management, etc. The training needs for Bank and donor
financed projects cover technical, policy, and management areas that can also be supportedby the
DLC without the cost o f travel. Most o f the World Bank funded projects in Mali support
capacity building efforts at both the project and program or sector wide levels. One o f the best
uses o f the DLC will be to link these teams with other teams in and out o f Africa to share
experiences.

The DLC is a new concept for Mali. Despite the presence o f good training institutions in Mali,
there are no means o f sharing information and exchanging knowledge with other countries. The
distance learning initiative will aim to: (i)  improve the implementation o f the PRSP and related
development projects by strengthening the environment for policy reform and building the
capacity inthe public and private sectors; and (ii) coordinate all the local training institutions
                                                      help
inregardto the national capacitybuildingpolicybyputtingincoherence, throughthe DLCBoard,
all the courses and training offered by the existing training institutions.
As experience has shown elsewhere, an important segment o f the market for the DLC services
will also come from the NGOs, civil society, and the private sector.

2. How are the results going to be used(vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on operation)?
Documentnumber: 25663            Date of latestCAS discussion: 07131/2003
Mali's PRSP was endorsed by the Boards o f the World Bank and IMF in March 2003 and has
been under implementation since then. The strategic axes o f the PRSP focus on; (i)         accelerated
and re-distributive growth; (ii)   promote institutional development while improving governance
and participation; (iii) develop human resources and improve access to quality basic services; and
(iv) develop basic infrastructures and productive sectors. With respect to (ii), PRSP       the
recognizes that insufficiently qualified human resources present a challenge to the implementation
o f the PRSP.

The analysis o f the implementation o f the Bank's previous CAS (which covered the period
1999-2003) highlighted that weak capacity was a main constraint to achieving development
impact in Mali. In both the public and private sectors, there was weak capacity for planning,
management, implementation procedures and monitoring and evaluation. As a result, the FY04-06
CAS places capacity building as a core priority o f the Bank's program and emphasizes that it be
targeted towards all development partners.




                                                   - 2 -

The Development Learning Center LIL is planned as part of the CAS to focus on public-,private,
institutional and civil society capacity building and to ensure that educational and training
programs are available to a muchwider audience inMali. The project is a core part o fthe Bank's
support under the CAS theme -Public Finance Management and Governance (para. 98 of CAS).

This LILwill be implementedinparallelwith the PRSP. The results ofthe project will allow for a
better understanding o f the best ways o f building capacity in Mali and o f providing
implementation support to the PRSP.           The PRSP Annual Progress Reports will provide
assessments on implementation progress and will allow for annual stock-taking, on a national and
strategic level, o f the impact o f capacity building activities as part o f PRSP implementation. As
the PRSP Annual Progress Reports are a participatory exercise, they will also allow for a greater
understanding o f how non-public sector development actors - civil society, NGOs, communities,
etc. - have been able to strengthen their capacity or have benefited from the GDLN activities.
The results o f the GDLN's activities will, therefore, be used to understand better the overall
PRSP implementation andthe areas for improvement.

The IDA-supported operations set out in the FY04-06 CAS will benefit from the results of the
GDLN as most of these operations are expected to have a core focus on capacity building.
Moreover, the move to programmatic support through the Poverty Reduction Support Credits
(PRSC), planned for FY05, means that implementation issues and capacity buildingbecome even
more important to ensure that programmatic support has the intended impact. The GDLN is
expected to support these operations through providing a key element o f the capacity building
components therein.

3. Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise.
The Bank-supported GDLNProgram has completed its third year o f operation with some success
indeveloping programming and content. Already operational in eight countries inAfrica and in
more than fifty around the world, the Development Learning Centers are becoming effective
learningtools. After two years ofoperations, the DLC inDakar has already reachedthe objectives
o f the third year in terms o f operating costs recovery, the learning program and the number o f
clients. The Tanzania DLC uses its facilities daily andhas reacheda usage rate o fmore than 80%
and is recovering around 90% o f its operating costs.

With DLCs in Mauritania, Kenya and Burkina Faso, Mali will benefit from this new learning
network as part o f the thirdphase of the GDLNdeployment. Moreover, the DLC inBamako will
be part of a Francophone African DL network including Benin, Burkina Faso, CBte d'Ivoire,
Mauritania, and Senegal. These Centers benefit from a close relationship with the World Bank
Institute (WBI) GDLN Services Department in Paris, France. The WBI and other World Bank
units deliver many learning activities themselves through the network. The GDLN Services
Department in Paris, in addition, facilitates provision o f activities from many other learning
institutions, all over the world. These include other international agencies (such as Agence
Franqaise de Dkveloppement), developing country learning institutions that deliver from other
DLCs anduniversities inCanadaand Europe.

As the Global Development Learning Network has been operational for only three years, it is



                                                  - 3 -

difficult to assess the impact o f the GDLN curriculum on the trainees in terms of capacity
building. The GDLN is setting up a common activity monitoring system to get some qualitative
feedback from the trainees. Innew GDLNprojects such as Burkina Faso, Mauritania, and Kenya,
the M&E component is part of the Project Design itself and allows for a better evaluation of the
impact of the project on participants.

The Bamako GDLN will benefit from being able to draw lessons from the experience in
neighboring countries - Mauritania and Burkina Faso - where the GDLN activities have been in
place for longer. Inparticular, Burkina Faso is very advanced inits PRSP implementation and on
programmatic lending with the Bank having appproved the fourth PRSC operation inFY04. The
GDLN program o f training in Ouagadougou focuses, inter alia, on delivering capacity building
activities that strengthen the implementation of the PRSP and the PRSCs. Given that Mali i s also
moving towards receiving programmatic support from the Bank, the experiences o f the GDLNin
Ouagadougou will be useful to inform the activities o f the GDLN in Bamako. Mauritania is also
movingto programmatic support and its GDLNcenter is expected to provide some useful lessons
leamt and cross-country experiences.     Given the similar Bank development programs in these
countries, it is hoped that there will be cross-country cooperation and sharing of experiences
through the respective GDLN centers which would serve to strengthen further the Bamako
GDLN's activities.

The main target audiences of the GDLN comprise (i)    decision makers and civil servants from the
public sector; and (ii)non-public sector development actors such as civil society, the private
sector, NGOs and community associations. With respect to (i),     experience from other countries
has shown that limited budget allocations available to governments result in a smaller
representation from the public sector in the GDLN trainees. Nevertheless, the share of civil
servant trainees is growing and has reached an encouraging fifty percent in certain countries.
Some GDLN Centers have now signed agreements with government administrations presenting
the DLC and the GDLN as the main training tools for civil servants. With respect to (ii),    it is
expected that the devolution of increased responsibility for development activities to non-public
development actors will result ina significant number of these actors using the GDLNfacilities.

A detailed Training Needs assessment, covering the two target audiences mentioned above, will
be conducted by the Project Coordination as input for the Center's business plan. The consultant
undertaking the study will have access to similar studies conducted in other countries such as
Benin, CBte d'Ivoire, and Senegal, to give Mali the advantage of drawing from the experiences of
these other countries.




                                                - 4 -

B. Structure of the Pilot
1. How will learningtake place?
The learning will take place through a structured pilot aimed at documenting the impact and
sustainability of the Center. Success will be determined by the achievement of critical performance
indicators such as the demonstration of financial viability, training relevance, learning, and
application of skills. An M&E system using a logical framework, performance indicator tools, and
associated monitoringinstruments will systematically measure the extent to which success has or
has not been achieved.

The distance learning facilities are designed to help train a larger number of Government staff who
are expected to apply what they have learned to improve governance in the public sector and
strengthen implementation of the PRSP. The LIL is likewise expected to enhance non-public
sector actors' capacity in planning, financial, management and M&E skills. With respect to the
private sector, exposure to modern methods of planning, finance and management will help to
enhance corporate governance. The LIL i s also expected to bring together the local public and
private sector inhigh-profile    deliberations on issues o f national interest.

The GDLN will facilitate debate on policy reforms and development priorities. It will also allow
development actors in M a l i to be exposed to a broader range o f experiences from within Africa
and beyond which can inform and guide Mali's own development, particularly the implementation
of the PRSP.

Inorder to create a favorable environment for the development o fthe DLCactivities and a
business-oriented management, the Development Learning Center inBamako will be created as a
new, completely autonomous and independent entity, and therefore will not benefit from the
facilities of a host institution.

2. Outcome-level test to be conducted
The establishment of the DLC is expected to result in an effective and sustainable global
knowledge-sharing institution that will provide relevant training opportunities and, ultimately,
enhance the capacities o f civil servants and key decision makers inMali.

3. Steps involved inconducting the pilot
The Pilot will be undertaken utilizing the following steps: (i)     identify the local needs in terms of
training and capacity building; (ii)     promote the content available on the GDLN; (iii) in      put
coherence the content offered         by the local training institutions; (iv) develop additional
partnerships to meet the local needs; (v) assess the coherence of the trainings and courses offered
by the DLC; (vi) review the financial activities of the DLC; (vii) conduct evaluation of the DLC
activities; and (viii) analyze and report results.




                                                   - 5 -

4. Learning expectations to be documented in the pilot
IxiEconomic          Technical      I?Social           KlParticipation
IxIFinancial         Institutional     Environmental ixI Other

a) Economic

The project i s expected to demonstrate an economically viable method o f delivering training as
compared to the current and expensive practice o f sending officials abroad for specialized training
or the import o f international trainers. In addition, more people are expected to gain access to
training ina wider variety o f fields leading to a more effective use o f government funds.

b) Financial

The DLC in Bamako i s expected to meet the operating expenses o f the Center (excluding the
amortization o f the communication and informatic equipment) up to 20%, 40%, 60% and 80%
respectively duringthe first four years from generated income, andto ensure at least the financial
equilibrium as early as the fifthyear o f operation.

c) Technical

The project will introduce advanced communications technologies to the country. Through the
project's training and virtual discussion opportunities, awareness o f informationtechnology and its
value will be enhanced. The proposednew state-of-the-art video-conferencing facility will provide
practical learning opportunities for local engineerdIT technicians/instructors on its operations,
maintenance, and installation.

d) Institutional

The success o f the LIL relies upon buildingthe institutional capacity o f the DLC to establish an
effective, efficient, relevant, and sustainable center which has impact. In addition, institutional
challenges for the project include building the capacity o f project management, establishing
practical means with Government to support implementation o f the public service training
strategy, establishing an effective and well represented Board (consisting o f private sector,
government, civil society representatives).

e) Social
N/A

f) Environmental
N/A

g) Participatory Processes


Participationis required at various levels. This includes:



                                                   - 6 -

0 participation o f local and international training providers as users and in identifyingtraining
available, availing courses, and developing content. Their participation is also important for the
evaluation, planning, and review processes.
0 participation from the client populatiodagencies-civil society, civil service, private sector,
projects, etc., as users and in training needs assessments, market surveys, and monitoring and
evaluation.
0 participation of donors as users of the Center and in fundraising, knowledge sharing, and
technical assistance.

h)MonitoringandEvaluation

The project has introduced M&E as an important integrated institutional process rather than as a
discrete activity. It is expectedthat some informationwill be documented on the usefulness o f the
M&E implementation plan and where and how the process has changed to improve evaluation
practice and its value to the project.

5. Triggers for a follow-on operation
A follow-on of this technology, and expansion of the system to include other sites within the
country would bejustifiedif:
0   the pilot institution reachesits financial sustainability by the fourth year of operations
0   the surveys show the ability ofthe DLC to meet local demand
0   the surveys show the relevanceo f the training offered by the GDLN
0   the project monitoring shows the consistency o fthe GDLNcurriculumwith the local needs.

6. Results-basedMonitoring and EvaluationSystem
Institutional Strengthening: M&Etraining for the newlyrecruited DLC team will be required to
ensure adequate institutional M&E capacity. The DLC Board will facilitate the development o f a
M&E plan with wider participation from key stakeholders inthe World Bank, and other partner
organizations.

M&E Scope, Objective and Use: A results-basedmanagement approach will be utilized and
supported by a practical M&E system that will generate information in the five areas o f
performance-efficiency, effectiveness, relevance, sustainability and impact. It should enable an
in-depthunderstandingof key successes and failures and allow for the use of lessons learnt and
experience gained at local and global levels. It will also provide a means for improving service
delivery, planning, and allocating resources, assessing beneficiary responses, and demonstrating
results as part o f accountability to key stakeholders. The information generated will answer
important evaluation questionsat all levels o fthe project design hierarchy.

It is expected that much of the M&E information generation, analyses, and reporting, which
includes critical business information, will have to be conducted by the DLC, particularly at the
operational level. The DLC Board is responsible for ensuring that the M&E component works
successfully and producesthe desiredresults. The M&Eplanwill clearly indicate where, how, and
when the DLC or DLC Board is responsible for a particular task. Activities managedby the DLC


                                                   - 7 -

include the processes involved in M&E training, development o f the M&E plan, the hiring o f
consultants and the regular review o f the implementation performance o f the M&E plan. Business
plans, quarterly and annual progress reports, as well as annual audit reports will form the main
reporting mechanism for the project.

C. Project Componentsand ImplementationArrangements
1. LILComponents
This LIL has three main components: (i) construction and equipment; (ii)
                                             DLC                                     Support o f the
DLC operations; and (iii)   Monitoring & Evaluation. The Grant will finance the DLC operations
duringthe first four years of operations on a decreasing basis. The first year, the Grant will cover
80% o f the Center's operating costs. The second year, it will cover 60%, the third year 40%, and
the fourth year 20%.

(i)Construction and Installation: This component will set up the institutional, physical and human
resourcerequirements for the DLC. It will be implementedby the PCU.

(ii)DLCOperationsSupport: ThecomponentwillindeedoperationalizetheDLCandassistin
establishingits viability andtraining program. Itwill be implementedby the DLC.

(iii)Monitoring&Evaluation: ThiscomponentwillsetupaM&Esystemthatwillassessthe
impact o fthe GDLNProgram. This component will be implementedby the PCU.

                                                            indicative               Bank-       % of
                        Component                             costs      % of     financing      Bank-
                                                             (US$M)      Total      (US$M)     financing
 Construction & Installation                                    1.50       42.9        1.20        48.0
 DLC Operation & Support                                   1    1.80  1    51.4  I     1.15   1    46.0  1
 Monitoring & Evaluation                                        0.20        5.7        0.15         6.0
                                        Total Project Costs     3.50      100.0        2.50       100.0
                                TotalFinancingReauired          3.50      100.0        2.50       100.0

2. ImplementationArrangements

The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the overall project implementation and will cany
out the financial management o f the project but, in order to enhance the "ownership" o f the
project, the DLC will be responsible for carrying out the day-to-day project implementation.

The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Ministry o f Finance will: (i) establish
                                                                                    legally
(legal statutes) the DLC as an independent entity; (ii) the AGETIP-Mali Agency to carry
                                                        contract
out the construction component o f the project; (iii)  select the project accountant; and (iv) select
the consultant for the Manualo f Proceduresand Financial Management system.

Once the DLC is established, all the tasks will be transferred from the PCU to the DLC except the
Financial Management (including the management of the Special Account). The Project
Accountant will be hired by the DLC but will be located within the PCU at the Ministry o f



                                                 - 8 -

Finance. The main task o f the DLC at this stage is to: (i) up on the construction; (ii)
                                                                follow
endorse the Manual o f Procedures; (iii) the Market Study; and (iv) follow up on the grant
                                          launch
effectiveness.

After grant effectiveness:three months prior to the end o f the construction, the DLC Boardwill
launch the selection process o f the DLC staff (the DLC Accountant i s hired during the second
phase). The DLC Director will supervise the project implementation and will be responsible for
the day-to-day management o f the DLC. Specifically, the DLC Director will be responsible for
ensuring the successful performance of the project, consolidating the annual project accounts,
ensuring the timely submission of annual audits, processing the annual Government budget
allocation for the project in coordination with the responsible Government Agency, promoting
effective linkages with the civil service needs, and monitoring and evaluation. The DLC's core
responsibility i s to set up and runan effective DLC that is self-sustaining inconsultation with the
DLC Board.        The DLC is directly responsible for Component 2 while working in close
collaboration with the DLC Board on Component 3.

a. Procurement
Most o f the procurement (construction and equipment installation) will be done during the
component 1 implementation and carried out by the AGETIP-Mali agency which has both the
experience and the capacity to provide such services.

Apart from the procurement that falls under the Convention signed with AGETIP, all the
procurement services will be carried out by the DLC. The DLC will either recruit a Procurement
Specialist or have the Administrative Assistant trained adequately.

b. FinancialManagement
A Financial Management system managedby a qualified Accountant will be establishedwithin the
PCU. The Financial Management system will be installed and configured for the financial
management and accounting o f the funds. Specifically, it will be responsible for: (a) preparing
activity plans, monthly Special Account (SA) reconciliation statement, and quarterly Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs), withdrawal schedule, quarterly financial monitoring reports, and annual
financial statements; and (b) ensuring that the project financial management arrangements are
acceptable to the Government and IDA. It will also be responsible for forwarding the reports and
statementsto the Government, the DLC Boardand the IDA.
Flow of Funds: The overall project funding will consist o f IDA Grant, Government Counterpart
Funds and generated revenues. With respect to banking arrangements, IDA will disburse the
Grant through one Special Account (SA) opened and operated by the PCU at the Ministry o f
Finance.
The following accounts will be maintained by the PCU: (i)SA in FCFA to which the initial
deposit and replenishments from IDA funds will be lodged for payments of eligible expenditures;
(ii)Current(Project)AccountinFCFAtowhichCounterpartFundswillbedeposited.Interest
    a
income will be deposited to the respective accounts.
Financial Reporting. All bank accounts will be reconciled with bank statements on a monthly



                                                 - 9 -

basis by the Accountant o f the PCU. Any difference will be expeditiously investigated and timely
regularized.

At the initial stage, the project disbursements will be transaction-based and report-based
disbursement would be adopted after a review by the Bank FMS. However, when project
implementation begins and the borrower requests conversion to report-based disbursements, a
review will be undertaken by the Bank Team Financial Management Specialist (FMS) to
determine ifthe project i s eligible to convert to FMRs.
The PCU will prepare and submit to IDA Audited Project Financial Statements within six months
after year end. BY Grant Effectiveness, relevant qualified external auditors will be appointed by
the PCU o n the basis of Terms of Reference (TORS)acceptable to IDA. The auditors will audit
the project accounts and financial statements in accordance with International Standards o n
Auditing (ISAs). The audit reports will include a single opinion on: (i)the Audited Project
Financial Statements, (ii)the accuracy and propriety of expenditures made under the SOE
procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for Grant disbursements,
and (iii) Special Account.
         the

c. Other
NIA

D. Risks
1. Social andEnvironmentalRisk

NIA
a. Safeguard Policies
No safeguardpolicyhasbeentriggered
Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
b. Other SocialRisks
NIA




                                                 -10-

2. Other (external, reflectingthe failure of the assumptions inthe fourth column of Annex 1)
                    Risk                           Risk Rating                   Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputsto Objective
DLC training is not relevant to country                 M            Market assessment carried out. Training needs
needsandmarket demand                                                closely aligned with public sector priorities.
Trainee organizations do not have the will              S            Close coordination with other WB-financed
or ability to pay                                                    projects andother donors providingcapacity
                                                                     buildingsupport



From Componentsto Outputs
Management team is not business                         M            Oversight o f selection process
oriented
Course content not relevant to local needs              M            Technical inputs from World Bank andother
                                                                     partners to assistwith content development
Participatinginstitutions do not want to                M            Outreach programme to private sector
cover part of training costs
Private sector do not want to cooperate




Overall Risk Rating                                     M                                                  ~




Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ri5 ), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1e or Low Risk)




                                                       -11 -

3. FinancialManagement Risks


                 Risk                                      RiskMitigationMeasure

InherentFinancial Management Risks:
0  Fundsmay not be usedinan                 M      The team o f appropriately qualified and
efficient and economical way and                   experienced staff may reduce this risk.
exclusively for purposes intended due               Strong intemal control procedures to be
to corruption and poor governance.                 set up andmaintained. Need for
                                                   strengthening the process o f follow-up o f
                                                   Audit Reports.
Financial Management Control Risks:
0  The FMS inthe PCUhas not                 M      Training o f staff is expected to be
implemented the new FMsystemyet.                   providedby the FMConsultant before
Teething problems mayjeopardize                    effectiveness.
timely andaccurate financial reporting
anddisbursement Drocess.
   H=High          S = Substantial

 M=Moderate        N=Lowlnegligible

Various measures to mitigate these risks have been agreed and thus the project risk from a
financial management perspective is assessedas Lowhegligible provided the risk mitigating
measures are properly addressed.

E. Main Grant Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition

(a)      Auditor has been appointed inaccordance with the Development Grant Agreement.
(b)      The Recipient has provided a legal opinion o n the Development Grant Agreement.
(c)      The Recipient has adopted the project Manual of Procedures, inform and substance
satisfactory to the Association.
(d)      The Recipient has established a computerized financial management system, inform and
substance acceptable to the Association.
(e)      The PCU has appointed a financial management specialist with experience acceptable to
the Association.
(f)      The Recipient has opened a project account and made an initial deposit, as referred by the
DGA.


2. Other (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.)




                                                -12-

F. Readiness for Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear's activities arecompleteandreadyforthestart
         of project implementation.
ixI 1.b)Notapplicable.

   2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start o f
       project implementation; and a framework has beenestablishedfor agreement on standardbidding
       documents that will be used for ongoingprocurement throughout the life o f LIL
iXi 3. The LIL'sImplementationPlanhas been appraised andfound to berealistic and of satisfactory
       quality.
   4. The following itemsare lacking and are discussedunder loan conditions (Section G):




G. Compliance with Bank Policies
iXi 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[?2. Thefollowingexceptionsto Bankpolicies are recommendedfor approval. Theprojectcomplies with
       all other applicable Bank policies.




 Marc Jean Yves Lixi                                                             A. David Craig                \
                                                                                                               '
 Team Leader                                                                     Country Director




                                                    - 13-

                                     Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                           MALI: Mali Development Learning Center project LIL          -
                                      Key Performance          Data CollectionStrategy
                                          Indicators                                         CriticalAssumptions
Sector-relatedCAS Goal:        Sector Indicators:              iectorlcountry reports:     From Goal to Bank Mission)




Follow-onDevelopment
Objective:
To mainstreamand expand
the DLC into other sites to
increase the capacity o f the
public and private sectors




Project Development            OutcomeI Impact                 'roject reports:            from Objectiveto Goal)
Objective:                     Indicators:
To test the effectiveness and  % o fparticipants whose         didterm & final evaluation  kainees actually apply the
sustainability o f a           capacity to design, plan and    eports                      eamed skills at work
Development Leaming Center manage social and economic
inMali as part of a global     development policies and        NB Supervision Reports
knowledge-sharing network to programs have improved as
strengthen the capacity o f    judged by both participants     3oardDLC Annual Reports
public, private and civil      and their supervisors
society decision makers and                                    'ost client and supervisor
implementersto design, plan    % o fpeople who have
and manage social and          improvedknowledge andor         &estionnaires/Surveys
economic development           skills or changed attitude as a
policies.                      result o f the training

                               Number o f project directors,
                               trained in the Development
                               Learning Center program,
                               implementing best practice
                               guidelines on managing
                               development projects (at least
                               2 new Directors each year).


                               Number o f specific initiatives
                               introduced that impact on
                               PRSP implementation in
                                designated areas coveredby
                                distance learning (at least 2
                                the first year and 3 in each
                                twelve months period
                                thereafter).


                                Ability to cover operating



                                                            -14-

expenses through fees (60% of
operating expensesto be
covered by revenue generation
by the 3rdyear o f the Center
operations).


Number of training
institutions usingthe DLC (at
least 2 new training
institutions each year o f
implementation). All the
training institutions members
o f the DLC Board respond in
coherence to the local training
needs.


80 training sessions have been
held duringthe first twelve
months o f Project
Implementation, and 120 such
sessions ineach twelve
months period thereafter.


Variance o f content offered in
the training sessions has
covered at least 3 specific
sectors duringthe first twelve
months of Project
Implementation, and 5 such
sectors in each twelve months
period thereafter.

Center is self-sustaining by
Y5 o foperation.




                           -15-

                                     Key Performance

3utput from each               Output Indicators:                 'roject reports:           FromOutputsto Objective)
2omponent:
Dutput1. Distance Learning     1.a Effective Project              'SR and follow up mission  )LClegal statutes ensures its
'acilities adequately equipped Coordinator supported by a          eports                    utonomy
.oprovide the required         pro-active staff.
;ervices.                      1.b DLC is independent with        did-Term Review and ICR
                               an autonomous Board.

3utput2. DLC operational       2.a Number o f civil servants      ILCquarterly reports
mdinuse by key decision        trained (800 the first year, the
nakers and donors.             1500,3000 and 4500 the             >LCBusiness Plan
                               fourth year).
3utput2.1 A viable,            2.b Number o f private sector,     3oardMinutes
;elf-sustaining and well       NGO, or civil society
nanaged institution.           participants (at least 5% the      innual audit reports
                               first year, and 5 additional %
3utput2.2 An effective and     eachyear).                         NB Supervision Reports
ieeds based training program 2.c Number andtype o f
:stablished and implemented    training courses offeredby         didterm & final evaluation
o enhance the skills o f civil DLC that correspond to the          eports
iervants.                      identified needs o f the market
                               study, the national training
                               strategy, and projects (10 the
                               first year and 2 more every
                               year).
                                2.d Cost recovery at least at
                               20% o f the operating costs for
                               Y1,40% for Y2, 60% for Y3,
                               80% for Y4 and Centre is self
                               sustaining by year 5.
                               2.e Utilization rates are at
                               least: 20%, 45%, and 62% for
                               sach o f the first three years
                               respectively. (70%
                               :orresponds to 5000 student
                               days per year)
htput 3.1 A mechanism          3,a Progress reports and           d&E Plan
stablished andutilized to      msiness plans that contain
nonitor DLC activities,        M&E informationat all levels d&E reports
:valuate successes and
ailures and improve GDLN       3.b Actual implementationo f       )LC Annual/Quarterly
mpact on trainees.             M&E activities are delivered       eports
                               within the requirements set in
lutput3.2 M&E capacity         :he M&Eplan                        NB Supervision Reports
ieeds assessment undertaken
md program designed and
mplementedto address
ieeds.




                                                            - 1 6 -

                                                         Data CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchyof Objectives                                                             - -
                                                                                      Critical Assumptions
Project Components I          Inputs: (budget for each   'roject reports:           from Componentsto
Sub-components:               component)                                            htputs)
Component 1.DLC               us$1,200,000                                          jovemment counterpart
construction and installation                                                       ivailable.

                                                                                    'rocurement & Disbursement
                                                                                    'lan reliable
Component2. Support to        US$1,150,000               2uarterly Reports and PSRs vlanagement Team is
DLC start-up and operations                                                         Iusiness oriented and
                                                                                    iro-active
Sub Component2.1 Support      US$850,000
o f the DLC operating costs
duringthe first four years of
operation
Sub-component 2.2 Support     US$300,000
to local content development
Component3,Monitoring         US$150,000                 2uarterly M&E reports
and Evaluation




                                                      -17-

                             Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                    MALI: Mali Development Learning Center project LIL     -
By Component:

ProjectComponent1 US$1.20million
                    -
Establishment,constructionand installationof the DLC:

Objectives & Institutional Arrangements
The objective o fthis component is to set up the DLC's physical, and humanresourcerequirements
duringthe first year ofthe project andprior to the start up ofthe DLC's operations (year 2-5) as
describedbelow inComponent 2. The PCU within the Ministryof Finance, with the help of
AGETIP-Mali, is responsiblefor implementingthis component.

Activities

(a) Based on a reviewo f needs and experiencefrom DLCs inother countries, the Center will be
designed and constructed with the following:

         1.    (i)Videoconference room (30 seats and including two translator booths); (ii)
        Multimedia room (30 seats); (iii)CommunicatiodTechnical room; (iv) Multihctions
        room (30 seats); and (v) Library/Storeroom.
        2.     Offices for:(i) a Director; (ii) Administrative Assistant (with waiting room); (iii)
                                               an
        a Training coordinator; (iv) an Accountant; and (v) an IT Specialist.
         3.    (i) Reception area; (ii) (iii)
                                        toilets;    kitchenette; (iv) Generator house; (v) car park;
        (vi) guard house; and (vii) a fence.

Based on regional estimates, the Center will occupy an area between 1200 and 1500sq.m.

(b) Purchaseand installationofequipment which includes a small aperture terminal (VSAT -
satellite communication terminal); video, telecommunications, and microprocessor equipment;
office and classroom furniture; and various other equipmentfor operations and security. The
Bank, through ISG, will provide technical assistance and expertise to procure, install and test the
video-conferencing equipment.

(c) Recruitment o fthe Director and other key staff for the DLC: the DLC will hire a recruitment
agency to advertise, review and short-list suitable candidates for the Director's position. Staff, to
include Training Coordinator, I T Officer, Accountant, Office Assistant andDriverwill be hiredon
a competitive basis, following advertisement, by the new Director.

ProjectComponent2 US$1.15million
                    -
DLC OperationsSupport:




                                                -18-

Objective & Financing
This component aims to assist the DLC inestablishingoperationsandbecoming financially viable.
Itincludes:

(i)      financing o f operational costs on a decreasingbasis over the first four years o f operation;
(ii)     purchase o fvehicles to facilitate transport andmarketing services;
(iii)    technical assistance for staff training;
(iv)     the establishment of financial managementsystems and annual audits.

 This componentwill be implementedbythe DLC,

InstitutionalArrangements DLCBoard and DLC management
                               -

The DLC will be governed by a Board comprising o f representatives from Government, academic
institutions, the private sector and civil society. The Board will oversee project implementation,
through an executive committee. The Board will be charged with monitoring management and
deciding on development policy, approving the annual business plan and program o f activities,
assessing the Center's financial statements and providing recommendations to help it become
financially self-sustaining.

 Daily managemento f the Center will be entrusted to the Director selectedthrough a competitive
 process on the basis o f proven experience inenterprise management or management o f a similar
 educational institution. He/she will be open to innovation and will have a strong capability for
 communication and marketing inthe area of service provision. The Director will be assistedby a
 team comprising, but not restricted to: an IT Officer for the management o f the equipment
 (electronics - computer specialist), a Training Coordinator to organize the courses/workshops
 and assist the participants, an Accountant (recruited during the project preparation and located
 within the PCU), and an Office Assistant.

Upon taking office, the Director will prepare a business planbased on a market study identifying
training needs from the public and private sectors and taking into account the Capacity Building
Policy and the PRSP. The business plan, to be submittedto the Board for approval and to IDA
for advice, will include: market data, budget and sources o f financing, training, and other services
to be provided (lectures, seminars, etc), source and programming o f training, rates for the
different types of training and financial projections inthe form o f budget, operating account and
market strategy. The business plan will be updated and approved by the Board on an annual
basis. To this effect, the Center will continue to assess demand, identify and program appropriate
training courses, marketthe services o f the Center, and increaseits visibility inMali and abroad.

 The DLC Director will be expected to meet the operating expenses of the Center (excluding
 amortization) up to 20%, 40%, 60% and 80% respectively during the first four years from
 generated income, and to ensure financial equilibrium as early as the fifth year o f operation.
 Although the Center will be run on a business basis to promote sustainability, it must also take
 into account that it was created as a public good to share development knowledge and
 information. Therefore, an appropriate balance i s required between the not-for-profit intention



                                                  -19-

 and the needfor viability.

StakeholderdTraining InstitutiondDevelopment Partners

The Director will build close relationships with other Mali-based institutions involved, or
potentially involved in the provision of ICT-facilitated distance learning. An important objective
o f the DLC i s to build local institutional capacity to use the GDLN as a means o f delivering
activities from Mali to other members ofthe network.

During the implementation of the first component members of the donor community will be
consulted. The DLC Board will discuss at the earliest stage o f the project the role the donors
could play to help the GDLNto develop and how donors can benefit from the GDLNas users o f
the network (global communication tool), as participants in DL sessions, or as partners of the
GDLNProgram.

 Training

 A Memorandum of Understandingbetween the DLC and GDLN will be signed. Many of the
 courses offered by the DLC will be sourced from local or international providers. However, the
 Center will have dedicated funds for developing its own contents for new courses. These funds
 should be used to develop both content and distance learning pedagogical skills to enable
 Mali-based institutions and local experts to deliver distance learning activities effectively through
 the network, helpingto meet both Malian and network-wide demand for learning activities. The
 hnds also give the DLC flexibility to provide programs that are biased towards and related to
 civil servants' needs as well as an opportunity to promote customized, performance related, and
 demand-driven supply.

Links with the PRSP and the Capacity-BuildingActivities

 The DLC will actively support training required by other projects and the national capacity
 buildingactivities. Efforts will also be made to facilitate training for ministries, departments and
 agencies for specific types and volumes of training that can be provided over a given time. The
 DLC should make every effort to consider its potential support to the Government's PRSP,
 including the I T component o f the PRSP. It should also, following a review, link training
 programs to ongoing capacity building initiatives in the public sector, e.g. procurement, budget
 management, M&E, etc.


ProjectComponent3 US$0.15 million
                     -

Monitoring and Evaluation:

The proposed M&E model will make use of performance indicators (qualitative and quantitative)
to measure the level of achievement o f set objectives and the efficiency o f the DLC management.
Specifically, the indicators will measure project impacts, outcomes, outputs and inputs and will
also be used later to evaluate the project' success. The M&E systemwill help the Director o f the


                                                - 20 -

DLC to evaluate the performance o f the business plan and, in particular, its efficiency,
effectiveness, relevance, sustainability and impact.

Objectives& WorkingArrangements

The overall Monitoring and Evaluation component will be carried out by the DLC Board. An
appropriate M&E model has been developed duringproject preparation and incollaboration with
key stakeholders. The purpose ofthe model will be to provide a means for incorporating lessons
leamt, improving service delivery, planning and allocating resources, and demonstrating results as
part o f accountability to key stakeholders. Any baseline studies identifiedduringthe design o fthe
M&Eframework will be launchedprior to effectivenessandwith the support ofconsultants.

The M&E is expected to assess and provide feedback on, for example: (i)          the needs o f the target
population and the relevance o f the training; (ii)the viability o f the Center; (iii)     progress in
promoting a coherent and complimentary training approach among training institutions, target
beneficiaries and the national training strategy; and (iv) the effects o f the program on performance
and the design, planning and management o f development policies. It is anticipated that the
quality and relevance o f the curriculum will be monitored through continuous surveys completed
by clients once the DLC is operational. A situation analysis conducted during preparation may
provide some useful comparative data on improving ranking or performances o f the civil servants.
The possibility of using evaluation & test scores and performance improvement assessments
prepared by the PCUwill also be explored.

A market study conducted duringcomponent 1implementation will provide initial informationon
the demand and type of training needed. This market study will be repeatedat least once a year.
Quarterly and annual performance reports from DLC will monitor the Center's financial viability
and overall use o f the Center. Duringproject preparation, this information- i.e. who collects the
monitoring information, how, what and when - has been elaborated on and incorporated into the
M&Edesign.




                                                -21 -

                                     Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                       MALI: Mali Development Learning Center project LIL -
A. Project Costsby Components


IA. CENTER RETROFITTING AND EQUIPMENT
 1. Civil Works
          Civil Reconstruction                    378,000 (315,000)  162,000  (135,000)  540,000   (450,000)
          Other Refitting                         29,400   (24,500)   12,600   (10,500)    42,000   (35,000)
 2. Network Access Equipment
          Global Connectivity                      8,866    (8,866)   79,794   (79,794)    88,660    (88,660)
          Pedagogical Tools                       26,505   (26,505)  238,541  (238,541)  265,046   (265,046)
          Local Connectivity                        5,605   (5,605)   50,449   (50,449)    56,054    (56,054)
 3. Other Equipment and Furniture
          Office Furniture                         57,600  (48,000)    14,400  (12,000)    72,000    (60,000)
          UPS and Generator                        23,520  (19,600)   94,080    (78,400)  117,600    (98,000)
          Other ElectricallElectronic equipment    18,240  (15,200)    4,560     (3,800)   22,800    (19,000)
          Car                                       3,000    (2,500)  27,000    (22,500)   30,000    (25,000)
          Video and TV Equipment                      660     (550)    5,940     (4,950)    6,600     (5,500)
 Shipping and Installation of Equipment            16,200  (16,200)   91,800    (91,800)  108,000  (108,000)
 4. Consultant Services
          Audits                                        0         0 I       0         0 I       0           01
          Recruitment of the key personnel          9,600    (8,000)   2,400     (2,000)   12,000    (10,000)
 Subtotal Component Base Cost                     577,196 (490,526)   783,564 (729,734) 1,360,760 (1,220,260)
 Price Contingencies
 Physical Contingencies                            57,720  (49,053)    78,356   (72,973)  136,076  (122,026)
 Subtotal Component Cost                          634,916 (539,579)   861,921 (802,708) 1,496,836 (1,342,286)

 B. SUPPORT FOR CENTER ESTABLISHMENT
 Consultant Services and Training
          Personnel Key Personnel
                      -                           316,389 (121,550)    55,833   (21,450)  372,222  (143,000)
          Training for DLC Staff                    3,111    (2,800)   12,444   (11,200)   15,556    (14,000)
          Content Development                     283,333 (255,000)    50,000   (45,000)  333,333  (300,000)
          Audits                                    2,000    (1,800)    8,000    (7,200)   10,000      (9,000)
 Operating Costs
 Satellite BandwidthaServicing Cost    -                0         ()  636,000 (254,400)   636,000   (254,400)
 Personnel Support Staff
            -                                     108,000   (45,600)   27,000   (11,400)  135,000    (57,000)
 Maintenance                                       60,594   (24,238)  112,531   (45,013)  173,125    (69,250)
 Utilities                                          7,800    (3,900)    4,200    (2,100)   12,000      (6,000)
 Variable Operating Cost                                0         0         0         0         0           0
 Subtotal Component Base Cost                     781,227 (454,888)   906,009  (397,763) 1,687,236  (852,650)
 Price Contingencies
 Physical Contingencies                            78,123   (45,489)   90,601   (39,776)   168,724    (85,265)
 Subtotal Component Cost                          859,350 (500,376)   996,610  (437,539) 1,855,960  (937,915)
 C. MONITORING & EVALUATION
          Training for PCU Staff
 M&E PCU consultant services
          M&E PCU operating costs
 Subtotal Component Base Cost
 Price Contingencies
 Physical Contingencies
,SubtotalComponent Cost



                                                  - 22 -

B.Project Costsby Components
                                                           i                                        3 :,<
                                           Local '     IDA.'                         Total    Total IDA'
A. CIVIL WORKS
       Base Cost                           407,400   (339,500   174,600   (145,500   582,000   (485,000

B. GOODS
       1. Network Access Equipment          57,176     (57,176  460,584   (460,584   517,760   (517,760

       2. Other Equipment and Furniture    103,020     (85,850  145,980   (121,65C   249,000   (207,500

C. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND TRAINING
        Base Cost                          631,656   (404,650   203,678   (154,35C   835,333   (559,000

D. OPERATING COST
       1. Satellite Bandwidth Rent                0             636,000   (254,40C   636,000   (254,400

       2. Operating Expenditure            212,394   (102,538   152,731     (65,712  365,125   (168,25C

                                          1,411,645  (989,714  1,773,573 (1,202,197 3,185,218 (2,191,91C
Total Price Contingencies
Total Physical Contingencies                135,842    (94,541   168,957  (112,75(    304,800  (207,291
                                          1,547,488 (1,084,25E 1,942,530 (1,314,946 3,490,018 (2,399,201




                                            - 23 -

                                 Annex 4: Financial Management
                      MALI: Mali DevelopmentLearningCenter project      - LIL
Financial Management System

Before the negotiations, an action plan for the establishment of a basic financial management
system was agreed on between the Bank and the PCU. This system which will cover cash
management, accounting, internal control and financial reporting will be fully in place prior to
project effectiveness. It will be established by the DLC and acceptable to IDA, and will provide
the PCU and IDA with accurate and timely information regardingresources and expenditures. In
addition, before effectiveness a (i)full-time project accountantlfinancial management specialist
will be hiredbythe PCU, and(ii) external audit firm will be contracted.
                                   an

Accounting policy andprocedures

Project accounts will be maintained on an accurate basis, augmentedwith appropriate records and
procedures to track commitments and to safeguard assets. Accounting records will be maintained
in dual currencies (i.e. FCFA and SDR or USD). The Chart of Accounts will facilitate the
preparation o f relevant monthly, quarterly and annual financial statements, including information
on the following:
6       Total project expenditures
6       Total financial contribution from eachfinancier
6       Total expenditureon eachproject componentlactivity, and
        Analysis o f that total expenditureinto civil works, various categorieso f goods, training,
consultants and other procurement and disbursement categories
Annual financial statements will be prepared in accordance with International Accounting
Standards (IASs). All accounting and control procedures will be documented in the manual o f
procedures, a living document that will be regularlyupdatedby the FMS and providingreasonable
assurancesthat accounts are properly recorded and resourcessafeguarded. The accounting system
for the PCU will be computerizedusingappropriate software before project effectiveness.

Financial reporting

Monthly, quarterly and annual reports will be prepared by the Project Accountant and submitted
to PCU managementand IDA for the purpose o f monitoring project implementation.
Monthly: (i) A Bank Reconciliation Statement, (ii)    Statemento f Cashposition, (iii)Statement of
expenditures, (iv) Statemento f Sources and Uses o f funds.
Quarterly: (i) Financial Reports, (ii)Physical ProgressReports, (iii) Procurement Reports, (iv)
SOE withdrawal schedule, (v) Special account statementlreconciliation.
Annually: Annual project financial statements will be prepared consisting o f the following: (i)   A
Statement o f Sources and Uses o f fimds (by Credit Categoryhy Activity showing IDA and
Counterpart Funds separately); (ii) Statement o f Cash Position for Project Funds from all
                                       A
sources; (iii) Statements reconciling the balances on the various bank accounts (including IDA
Special Account) to the bank balances shown on the Consolidated Statement o f Sources and Uses
o f funds; (iv) SOE Withdrawal Schedule listing individual withdrawal applications relating to



                                                - 24 -

disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount; (v) Notes to the
Financial Statements.
Indicative formats for the reports are outlined intwo Bank publications: (a) quarterly FMRs inthe
FMR Guidelines, and (b) monthly and annual reports inthe Financial Accounting, Reporting and
Auditing Handbook (FARAH).

The annual financial statements o f the project will be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. The audited financial statements will be submitted to IDA no later
than six months after the end o f the fiscal year. The computerized accounting system will be
customized to ease generate the FMRs required. There i s a need to ensure that the systems put in
place will be operating effectively. The monitoring and evaluation process will include output
monitoring reports which are consistent with the FMRsrequirements.

Auditing

The IDA Agreement will require the submission o f AuditedProject Financial Statements for DLC
to IDA within six (6) months after year-end. Relevantly qualified external auditors will be
appointed by PCU on TORS acceptable to IDA. A single opinion on the Audited Project
Financial Statements in compliance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs), will be
required including the accuracy and the propriety o f expenditures made under the SOE
procedures and the extent to which these can be reliedupon as a basis for grant disbursements.
Inaddition to the audit reports, the external auditor will be expectedto preparea Management
Letter givingobservations and comments, and providing recommendations for improvements in
accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants inthe IDA
agreement. The auditor will provide a single opinion on:
    (a) the project's financial statements
    (b) statement o f expenditures (SOEs)
    (c) special account
    (d) project account,
    (e) project's own revenues,
and will issue a management report on internal controls outlining any recommendationfor
improving internal controls system (accounting and assets safeguard).




                                                - 25 -

                              Annex 5: Project Processing Schedule
                   MALI: Mali Development Learning Center project LIL-
ProjectSchedule                                         Planned             Actual

Time taken to preparethe project(months)              6                   14
First Bank mission (identification)                   02/01/2003          0210U2003
Appraisal missiondeparture                            0111512004          0113112004
Negotiations                                          0111912004          04/29/2004
Planned Dateof Effectiveness                          03/15/2004          1010112004

Prepared by:
MinistryofFinance

Preparation assistance:
Project Preparation Facility

Bank staff who worked on the project included:
        Name                                          Speciality
Marc Jean Yves Lixi                   GDLNRegional Coordinator, TTL
Mahine Diop                           Municipal Engineer, AFTU2
Nestor Coffi                          Financial Management Specialist
Cheick Traore                         Procurement Specialist
Eavan O'Halloran                      Operations Officer
MaddaBa Coulibaly                     IT Specialist
Marietou Toure                        Task TeamAssistant
Aoua Toure Sow                        Task Team Assistant
Shalina Miah                          Counsel
Rente Desclaux                        Finance Officer
KadraNour                             Task Team Assistant




                                              - 26 -

                   Annex 6: Procurementand DisbursementArrangements
                    MALI: Mali DevelopmentLearning Center project           - LIL
Procurement
Assessment of National Procurement Code.

1. The Malian Procurement Code, revised in 1999 with IDA assistance, is generally sound. N o
special exemption, permit or license needs to be specified in credit documents for International
Competitive Bidding(ICB) as Mali allows Bank procedures to take precedence over any contrary
local regulation or practice.

A CPAR prepared in 1998, has pointed out the main issues such as lack o f capacity among the
staff o f the borrower, absence o f standard bidding document at the national level, insufficient
capacity o f domestic contractors to face larger contracts subject to ICB, and corruption practice.
Recommendations were made to address diverse issues.

In addition an IDF Grant was provided in order to strengthen the capacity of the Borrower in
procurement, to modernize the procurement process, and to improve the regulatory framework.
Some improvement needs still to be made. However, some contract management agencies exist in
Mali and are performing inprocurement: AGETIPE (Agence d' Execution des Travaux d'Interet
Public pour 1'Emploi) and AGETIER (Agence d' Execution des Travaux d' Infrastructures et
d'Equipements Ruraux).

A CPARupdate is beingcarried out; the recommendations and action planwill beusedduringthe
execution o f the project.

Guidelines

2. All works and goods financed under the grant will be procured in accordance with the
Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRLI Loans and IDA credits, January I995 and as revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultants will be selected in
accordance with the Guidelinesfor Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997 and as revised in September 1997,January 1999 and May 2002. The
Bank's standard bidding documents for goods and civil works will be used. For consulting
services, the Bank's standard documents for request for proposals and for contracts will be used.
National Competitive Bidding advertised locally (NCB) will be carried out in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA which allow that: (a) any bidders are given sufficient time to submit
bids (four weeks for contracts exceeding US$50,000 equivalent); (b) bid evaluation and bidder
qualification are clearly specified; (c) no preference margin is granted to domestic contractors or
manufacturers; (d) eligible foreign firms are not precluded from participation; (e) contracts
provide for security in amounts sufficient to protect the Borrower in case o f breach o f contract
(without distinction or exception); (0 prior to issuingthe first call for bids, draft standard bidding
documents are submitted to IDA and found acceptable; and (g) award will be made to the lowest
evaluated bidder. The DLC may use standard bidding documents for goods and civil works used
by Agetipe-Mali, and approvedby IDA (February 2001) for NCB.


                                                - 27 -

Advertising: Procurement Notices

3. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) with pertinent information o n estimated contract
opportunities scheduled during the next twelve months will be published inthe UNDevelopment
Business (UNDB) after Board approval. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) for goods and
works contracts will be advertised in a national paper of wide circulation and the UNDB when
appropriate. Individual contracts for consulting firms are estimated below US$200,000;
consequently, if needed, the request for expression of interest will be published only in a national
paper of wide circulation. However, if foreign firms express interest, they will not be excluded
from consideration.

ProcurementImplementationArrangements

4. The day-to-day Center's management will be implemented by the Director of the Development
Learning Center (DLC), headed by an independent Board, under the Ministry o f Finance (MoF).
The Ministry has already extensive experience with managing Bank projects and its staff is
familiar with Bank procedures. However, the Director of DLC will be assisted by an Office
Assistant who has procurement experience to monitor procurement activities and ensure timely
project execution.

Capacityassessment

As stated below, most parts o f the project procurement will be handled by AGETIPE-Mali (for
the construction o f the infrastructures and other goods for the DLC), and with the assistance of
the I S G Department of the World Bank (for the satellite and the Information technology
equipments). Small contracts under shopping procedures will be carried out by the DLC. In this
respect, the risks inprocurement is l o w for AGETIPE-Mali and the ISGDepartment of the World
Bank; it could be highfor the DLC office which i s a new entity but this is a very little part of the
project. For an overall assessment, the risk of procurement is low.

CivilWorks (US$0.58 Million)

5. M a i n civil works are financed under component 1 for an amount of $580,000 and will start in
November 2004. The procurement and supervision of works will be conducted by the
AGETIPE-Mali. Because of the complexity of the civil works and technical installation of a
GDLN Center (the DLC), AGETIPE-Mali signed a Convention of Delegated Management with
the Minister of Economy and Finance, to procure and supervise the construction and installation
of the Center. All the contracts signed under this Convention will be financed during the
Component 1implementation.




                                                - 28 -

The project may contract small works for the maintenance and improvement o f the DLC facilities.
These contracts estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount o f
US$120,000, would be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invited in writing to bid. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings
where applicable. The awards will be made to the contractors who offer the lowest price
quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have the experience and
resourcesto complete the contract successfully.

Goods (US$0.75 Million)

6. Most goods will be procured under Component 1. Satellite and informatic equipment will be
procured through ICB with the technical assistance o f ISG department o f the World Bank.
Furnitureand other goods necessaryto the Center installation will be procuredunder the contract
signedwith AGETIPE-Mali. Goods financed underthe project would include a vehicle, additional
computers, and equipment for the implementingagency. Prudent shopping based on written price
quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers can be used for small quantities of goods,
provided that: (a) these goods cannot be grouped into packages o f at least US$50,000; and (b)
the aggregate amount does not exceedUS$120,000.

7. The above aggregates for non-ICB procurement methods for goods and works are limitative
and cannot be exceeded without the prior no-objection o f the Bank. The procurement unit
responsible for the project will maintain a tracking system to monitor such procurement in order
to alert the Bank timely when this may occur.

Consultingservices and Training(US$0.83 Million)

8. The project will finance consultant services provided by firms to assist the DL Center to (i)
organize workshops and seminars (ii)   provide assistance inthe Monitoring and Evaluation; it will
finance also the key personnel's salaries. Except as otherwise indicated, The Quality and Cost
Based Selection (QCBS) method will be used for consulting assignments carried out by firms.
Services for supervision o f works contracts, and the organization o f a National Workshop and
other training assignments to be carried out by firms or training institutions, estimated to cost less
than the equivalent o f US$50,000, may be awarded based on Consultant qualifications. For audit
contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent o f US$50,000, the Least-Cost Selection
(LCS) will be the most appropriate method: the firm with the lowest price will be selected,
provided technical proposals received the minimal score.




                                                - 29 -

9. Short-lists of consultants for contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$lOO,OOO
may be comprised entirely of national consultants, if a sufficient number o f qualified firms (at least
three) are locally available at competitive cost.

10. Services for small assignments, studies, organization o f or lecturing at seminars, workshops or
study tours which can be carried out by individual consultants including consultants recruited as
DLC key staff, will be selected through comparison o f qualification and experience, via
comparison of at least three curriculum vitae among those expressing interest inthe assignment or
approached directly.

OperatingCosts (US$1.10 Million)

11. The project will finance the DLC operating costs on a decreasing basis. The grant will cover
80% o f the DLC operating costs the first year of DLC operations, 60% the second year, 40% the
thirdyear, and 20% the fourth year. The operating costs will include: (i) support staff salary;
                                                                              the
(ii) paymentofthesatellitebandwidth; (iii) maintenanceoftheNetworkKommunication
    the                                            the
equipment; (iv) the purchase of office supply; (v) the maintenance and operation of the vehicle.




                                                 - 30 -

The procurement methods and related amounts are summarized intable A below.
                                       Table A: Procurement Plan
                                           (US$ millionequivalent)
 -
                                                                                                      Indicative
                                                                                                    Completion/
 Dckg      ComponentlDesc.of             Estimated Procurement             Date of        Date of      Delivery
 ,
 -No.         ServicedGoods                 Costl          Method'        RFP/lTB*         Award         Date'
  1    Construction o f the D L C            0.60       ICB            08/20/04         11/01/04  06/01/05
       (civil works)                        (0.50)
  2    Purchase o f satellite                0.40       ICB            06115/04         10/01/04  06101/05
       equipment                            (0.40)
  3    Purchase o f D L C equipment          0.25       NCB            07/20/04         19115/04  05/15/05
                                            (0.20)
  4    Recruitment of the DLC staff          0.01       CQ             01101/05         33/15/05  04/15/05
                                            (0.01)
  5    Manual of Procedures                  0.01       CQ             04101/04         17/15/04   08/15/05
                                            (0.01)
  6    Recruitment o f the Architect         0.08       QCBS           04101104         36115/04   08/15/04
                                            (0.07)
                                Total       $1.37
                                            $1.20                                                 I               I
  Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the . All costs include contingencies

2/RFP - Request for Proposals, ITB - Invitationto Bid, ICB International Competitive Bidding, NCB - National
                                                           -
  Competitive Bidding, QCBS - Quality- and Cost-Based Selection, QBS - Quality-based Selection, SFB  -
  Selection under a FixedBudget, LCS - Least-Cost Selection, CQ - Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
31Endof contact may not exceed loadcreditboard date

12. Works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$500,000 or more, will be subject to
prior review byIDA.The GDLNcenter is expected to cost approximately the equivalent of
US$580,000; thus, it will be subject to prior review and awarded through ICB. Goods contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$250,000 or more, will be subject to prior review by IDA.
All other contracts for works and goods will be subject to postreview duringsupervision missions
and audits.


13. Consultant services : All contracts with consulting firms equal or exceeding US$lOO,OOO
equivalent; and with individual consultants equal or exceeding US$50,000 equivalent will be
subject to prior review. All other contracts for consultants will be subjected to post review.
However, this exception for prior review will not apply to terms of references of such contracts,
to single source selection of consultants, amendments of contracts with firms raising the contract
value to US$lOO,OOO, amendments o f contracts with individuals raising the contract value to
US$50,000, and to contracts for audits. For training abroad or inthe country, the program
containing names o f candidates, cost estimates, courses, period of training and institutions
selected would be reviewed by IDA semi-annually. Selective post-review of contracts awarded
below the threshold levels will apply to about one infive contracts during supervision missions,



                                                     - 31 -

and procurement audits.

14. The Office assistant/Procurement specialist, the financial managementagents and the Heads of
DLC will be recruited withIDA no-objection basedon comparison o f at leastthree resumes.

15. As a condition for effectiveness, the Government will submit to IDA: Manual o f Procedures
with a specific section on procurement detailing (i)procedures for planning, calling for bids,
selecting contractors, suppliers and consultants, and (b) a procurement plan for the first year o f
operations.

16. The Government has givenassurances at negotiations that it will: (a) use the Manual of
Procedures for Project Implementation (b) use Bank standardbidding documents for ICB; and
requests for proposal and models of contracts for consultant services (c) apply the procurement
procedures and arrangements outlined inthe above documents; The Government has agreedon
the principle that the Manual of Procedureswill only be modified with prior IDA approval.




                                               - 32 -

Disbursement
The IDA grant will be disbursed against (i) goods and civil works: 100%of foreign
                                             for
expenditure, 80% o f local expenditures; (ii)for consultants, 80% of expenditures; (iii) training
                                                                                       for
and workshops, 80% o f local expenditures and 100%of foreign expenditures; and for (iv)
operating costs: 80% o f expenditures the first year.

The IDA grant will be disbursed from October 1,2004, to December 3 1,2008. The estimated
disbursement schedule for the proposed IDA grant is:

IDA inUS$m
Fiscalyear     2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Annual                 1.40   0.40    0.30    0.20    0.20
Accumulated 1.40       1.80   2.10   2.30     2.50
                             Table B: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

        Expenditure Category             Amount in US$million           Financing Percentage
Works                                             0.50             100%of foreign expenditures and
                                                                       80% of local expenditures
Goods                                             0.72             100%of foreign expenditures and
                                                                       80% o f local exDenditures
Consultant Services andAudits                     0.60                           80%
Trainings andWorkshops                            0.10             100%of foreign expenditures and
                                                                       80% of local exnenditures
Operating Costs Phase 1                           0.10                           80%
Operating Costs Phase2                            0.10                           60%
ODeratingCosts Phase 3                            0.10                           40%
IoneratineCosts Phase4                I           0.05          I                40%                I
PPF                                               0.18
Unallocated                                       0.05
                                                  0.00
                                                  0.00
III                                   III         0.00                                              I
                                                  0.00
                                                  0.00          III                                 II
Total Project Costs                               2.50

Total                                             2.50




                                                - 33 -

The overall project fhding will consist of IDA Grant and Counterpart Funds. The following
accounts will be maintained by DLC:
        (i)    One Special Account in FCFA which will be managed by DLC and used to make
               payments to suppliers inthe respective contract currencies;
        (ii)   A Project Account inFCFAto which Counterpart Funds will be deposited.

Interest income received on the Special account will be deposited to the respective project
accounts or any other account of borrower. The account will show (a) deposits made into the
Special Account by IDA, (b) direct payments, reimbursements or special commitments issued by
IDA, and (c) opening andclosing balances.


Summary of FundsFlow Diagram

  Sources of Funds
  Donors                                               Funds GOVT




                                                         J
   Bank Accounts                 Current               Current
   DLC                          Accounts               Account in
                                 inFCFA                 FCFA




Advances will be made to the PCU when the conditions for grant effectiveness are met. All bank
accounts will be reconciled with bank statements on a monthly basis by the Finance Department.
Detailed banking arrangements, including control procedures over all bank transactions (e.g.
cheque signatories, transfers, etc.) will be documented inthe FAPM.

MethodOf Disbursement
By effectiveness, the Project will not be ready for report-based disbursements. Thus, at the initial
stage, the transaction-based disbursement procedures (as described in the World Bank
Disbursement Handbook) will be followed,           i.e. direct payment, reimbursements, special
commitments and replenishments of the Special Account.

When project implementation begins, the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
produced by the project will be reviewed. Where the reports are adequate and produced on a
timely basis, and the borrower requests conversion to report-based disbursements, a review will



                                                -34  -

beundertaken by the BankFMS to determine ifthe project is eligible.
The adoption o f report-based disbursements by the project will enable it to move away from
time-consuming voucher-by-voucher (transaction - based) disbursement methods to quarterly
disbursements to the Project's Special Account, based on FMRs. Detailed disbursement
procedureswill be documented inthe Manual o f Procedures.

Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements for all expenditures will be made against full documentation, except for items
claimed under the Statement o f Expenditures (SOE) procedure. SOEs will be used for payments
claimed under contracts for: (a) works in an amount inferior to US$500,000, (b) goods in an
amount inferior to US$250,000; (c) consulting firms in an amount inferior to US$lOO,OOO (d)
individual consultants in an amount inferior to US$50,000 SOEs will likewise be utilized for all
small equipment, office supplies and training.
Documentation supporting all expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by DLC, and
will be made available for review when requested by IDA periodic supervision missions and
project external auditors. All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Development
Grant Agreementand the procedures definedinthe Disbursement Letter.

Special account:
To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume o f withdrawal applications, one
Special Account in FCFA would be opened by the PCU in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation would be 100 millions for Special
Account. The respective allocations will cover about four months o f eligible expenditures. The
PCU will be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications with appropriate
supporting documents for expenditures.         To the extent possible, all o f IDA'S share o f
expenditures should be paidthrough the special account. The Special Account will be replenished
through the submission o f Withdrawal Applications on a monthly basis andwill include reconciled
bank statements and other documents as requireduntil such time as the borrower may choose to
convert to report-based disbursement. Inlieuo f SA, the borrower may also choose to pre-finance
project expenditure and seek reimbursementfrom IDA.

Upon grant effectiveness, IDA will deposit the amount o f FCFA 50 million into Special Account
representing fifty percent o f the authorized allocations. The Special Account will be used for all
payments inferior to twenty percent o f the authorized allocation and replenishment applications
will be submitted monthly. Further deposits by IDA into the Special Accounts will be made
against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documents. The remaining balance will
be made available when the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the grant account plus the
total amount o f all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association shall be equal
or exceedthe equivalent amount o f USDl.5 million.




                                                - 35 -

Counterpartfunds andtaxes
The Government's counterpart fhds needed to cover 20% o f local costs o f goods and civil
works, and 6% o f local costs o f consultant services, will be deposited by the Government in a
Project Account at a Commercial Bank acceptable to IDA. The Government will make an initial
deposit o f FCFA 20 millionrepresenting about twelve months o f project expenditures which will
be a condition to project effectiveness, and will subsequently replenish the account on a yearly
basis. The Government counterparts will also include the financing o f a three-year subsidy to the
new postal entity.

NEXT STEPS

ActionPlanAgreed
The action plans to be implemented before Grant Effectiveness are tabulated below.



     ACTION                                                             Target
                                                                       CompletionDate
 1.     Recruit andemploy FMS                                         By EndSeptember04
 2.     Computerized FM System installed; FAPM developed & adopted; By Mid-September 04
 andstaff trained inthe operation ofthe system.
 3.     Sas Accounts and Current (Project) Account inFCFA for         By Mid-September 04
 counterpart Fundopened. MoF and IDA advised of authorized bank
 signatorieshpecimen signatures.
 4.     Counterpart Fundsarrangementsput inplace and 50 % of annual    By Mid-September 04
 forecast released.

 5.     Recruit external auditors                                      By Mid-September 04



Conditionsfor GrantEffectiveness
The conditions for grant effectiveness are: (a) Financial management specialist appointed; (b)
computerized FM System installed and appropriate training given to the users; (c) Manual o f
Procedures developed and adopted by DLC; (d) Counterpart Fundsand Special Account opened
and initial deposit o f Counterpart Funds made; and (e) qualifiedexternal auditor appointed by the
PCU*

FinancialCovenants
A financial management system, including records and accounts will be maintained by the DLC.
Financial Statements will be prepared in a format acceptable to IDA, and will be adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
inrespectofthe project.




                                                - 36 -

SupervisionPlan
Supervision activities will include: review of quarterly FMRs; review of annual audited financial
statements and management letter as well as timely follow up o f issues arising; and participationin
project supervision missions as appropriate. The Bank F M S in charge will play a key role in
monitoring the timely implementation of the financial management arrangements.


CONCLUSION
The overall conclusion o f the financial management assessments i s that, provided the following
conditions are met by the pro-ject prior to grant effectiveness, the Bank's financial management
requirements will be satisfied: qualijied Finances Specialist appointed; computerized FA4System
installed; Manual of Procedures developed; Counterpart Funds and Special Accounts opened
and initial deposit of Counterpart Funds made; and qualijied external auditors appointed.

By effectiveness, the project will notbe ready for report-based disbursements. Thus, at the initial
stage, transaction-based disbursement procedures, as described inthe World Bank Disbursement
Handbook, will be followed i.e. direct payment, reimbursement, and special commitments.
However, when project implementation begins, and the borrower requests conversion to
report-based disbursements, a review will be undertaken by the Bank F M S to determine ifthe
project is eligible.




                                               - 37 -

                           Annex 7: Documents in the Project File*
                  MALI: Mali Development Learning Center project  - LIL

A. ProjectImplementationPlan



B. Bank Staff Assessments



C. Other


Mali Poverty Reduction StrategyPaper (2003)
MaliCAS (2003)

*Includingelectronic files




                                            - 38 -

                                        Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits
                            MALI: Mali Development Learning Center project                         - LIL
                                                              19-May-2004
                                                                                                                    Differencebetween expected
                                                                                                                            and actual
                                                                   Original Amount in US$ Millions                        disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA                      Cancel. Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
PO73036     2004 ML Household Energy 8 UniversalAccess            0.00      35.65                       0.00   37.23        0.00      0.00
PO79351     2004 ML TRANSPORTCORRIDORSIMPROVEMENT                 0.00      32.80                       0.00   48.08        0.00      0.00
PO35630     2002 Ma1i:AGRICULTURAl 8 PRODUCERORGANIZ              0.00      43.50                       0.00   35.80       18.09      0.00
PO40650     2001 Educ.Sect. Exp. Program                          0.00      45.00                       0.00   27.30       19.65      0.00
PO41723     2000 ML:RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE                          0.00      115.10                      0.00   80.34       52.87      0.00
PO01748     2000 FINANCESECTOR DEVEL                              0.00      21.00                       0.00   17.27       11.99      0.00
PO40652     1999 HealthSector Dev. Prog.                          0.00      40.00                       0.00   19.48       19.73      3.57
PO46651     1997 ML REGIONAL POWER                                0.00       17.10                      0.00     1.57       1.62      1.74
PO01750     1997 URBANDEVTa DECENTR                               0.00      80.00                       0.00   22.60       27.22     12.52
PO01730     1994 MALITRANSPORTSECTOR                              0.00      65.00                       0.00     4.34       6.25      2.42

                                                       Total:    0.00      495.15                       0.00   294.01      157.41     20.24




                                                                  - 39 -

                                             MALI
                                     STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                        May 19 2004
                                                 -
                                      InMillions USDollars                                 i




                                                      Committed                       Disbursed
                                                     IFC                            IFC
FY Approval    Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996           AEF GGG                         0.74    0.00     0.00    0.00  0.74    0.00    0.00  0.00
1997103        Hotel Bamako                    1.85    0.00     0.00    0.00   1.85   0.00    0.00  0.00
1997           PAL-Graphique Id                0.57    0.00     0.00    0.00  0.57    0.00    0.00  0.00
1999           PAL-Rabelais                    0.17    0.00     0.00    0.00  0.17    0.00    0.00  0.00
1998           PAL-SANKE                       0.38    0.00     0.00    0.00  0.38    0.00    0.00  0.00
1995           SEF 3T                          0.18    0.00     0.00    0.00  0.18    0.00    0.00  0.00
               SEF ImpnmColor                  0.19    0.00     0.00    0.00  0.19    0.00    0.00  0.00
               SEF SIECO                       0.28    0.00     0.00    0.00   0.28   0.00    0.00  0.00
               SEMOS                           0.00    4.80     0.00    0.00  0.00    4.80    0.00   0.00
                     Total Portfolio:          4.36    4.80      0.00    0.00   4.36   4.80    0.00  0.00



                                                  Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                            Loan     Equity     Quasi   Partic


              Total PendingCommitment:            0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00




                                              -40-

                                                      Annex 9: Country at a Glance
                                MALI: Mali DevelopmentLearningCenter project LIL                                  -
                                                                                  Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                             Saharan        Low-
                                                                    Mali         Africa   income           Developmentdlamond'
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                                      11.3           688      2,495                        Lifeexpectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$J                                   240           450         430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                                                                               T
                                                                      2.7          306       1,072

Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population 1%)                                                       2.4            2.4        1.9
Laborforce I%)                                                        2.3           2.5        2.3         GNI                                    Gross
                                                                                                           per                                  primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                                      capita                             nrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                               32             33         30
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                        41             46         59                             J.
Infantmortality (Der 1,000livebirths)                                135            105         81
Child malnutrition (% ofchildren under5)                              27                                         Access to improvedwater source
                                                                                                            -
Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                     65             58         76
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 75+)                                    73             37         37
Gross primaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)                    61             66         95                 Mali         Low-incomegroup
    Male                                                              71             92        103
    Female                                                            51             80         87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                         1982       1992           2001      2002
                                                                                                           Economicratios'
GDP (US$billions)                                           1.3       2.8           2.6        3.2
Grossdomestic investmenffGDP                              16.3       21.9          21.1       21.3
Exportsof goodsand services/GDP                           14.3       15.4          31.5                                       Trade

Grossdomestic savingsiGDP                                  0.8        4.4          10.3
Gross nationalsavingsiGDP                                  0.3       14.3           9.5

Currentaccount balanceiGDP                                 -8.7      -8.4                                  Domestic
InterestpaymentsiGDP                                       0.4        0.6           0.6         0.7        savings                           Investment
Total debffGDP                                            65.9      101.9         110.0       88.6
Total debt serviceiexports                                 8.5       10.0            9.4       10.1
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                           53.2
Presentvalue of debffexports                                                      164.4                                     Indebtedness
                                          1982-92 1992-02           2001           2002   2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                            2.1         4.6        1.5            9.6                     -Mali                Low-incomegroup
GDP per capita                                -0.5          2.1      -0.8            7.1

STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                         1982       1992           2001       2002         Growth of Investmentand GDP (Oh)
(% of GDP)
A~riculture                                               44.1       46.1          37.8
Industry                                                  13.7       15.8          26.4
    Manufacturing                                           6.4       7.5            3.6
Services                                                  42.2       38.0          35.9

Private consumption                                       88.1       82.3          76.7
Generalgovernmentconsumption                              11.1       13.2           13.0
Importsof goodsand services                               29.8       32.8          42.3


(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                                 5.7       3.2          -13.0       19.5
Industry                                                    4.3       8.3          31.O
    Manufacturing                                           7.0       2.4           -1.5
Services                                                    1.3       3.5            1.2

Private consumption                                         1.5       2.9            2.8
Generaloovernmentconsumotion                                6.3       6.4           -8.5
Grossdomesticinvestment                                     5.9       4.9           -0.4       13.9                -Exports           +Imports
Importsof goodsandservices

* The diamonds show four keyindicatorsin the country (inbold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage.If data aremissing,the diamondwill beincomplete.




                                                                               - 4 1 -

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                        1982   1992    2001    2002
Domesticprices
(% change)
Consumerprices                                  -6.3      5.2    3.0
Implicit GDP deflator                    12.7   2.0       9.1    4.4
Government finance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                          75.9  16.3     18.0    18.6
Current budget balance                   24.9   4.9       5.4    6.2  I         -GDP         deflator  "O'CPI          I
Overall surplus/deficit                 -29.0   -8.0     -9.6   -8.1

TRADE
                                        1982   1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                         Exportand Importlevels (US$ mill.)
Totalexports (fob)                       645    362      739     766  /1.000
  conon                                  282    151      111    203
  Gold                                   267     60      498    429     750
  Manufactures
Totalimports (cif)                       903    719      498    429     500
  Food                                   118     97      118
  Fuelandenergy                          116     84      147            250

                                                                      I
  Capitalgoods                           253    201      260              0

Exportprice index (1995400)               73     93       77      76          96    97     96    89    00     01    02

Import price index (1995=100)             86     97      102     104             E3 Exports          Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                 85     97       75      73

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1982   1992    2001    2002
IUS$ millions)                                                         Current account balanceto GDP ("h.)             1
Exportsof goodsand services              190    440      829     858
Importsof goods and services             395    937    1,100   1,156
Resourcebalance                         -205   -497    -271    -296
Net income                               -12     -7    -133    -122
Net currenttransfers                      20    288      112      86
Current account balance                 -115   -241
Financing items (net)                    117    329
Changesin net reserves                    -2    -89      -28     -53
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)      25    315      377    419
Conversionrate (DDEC, /oca//US$)        328.6 265.3    728.0   697.0

EXTERNAL DEETand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1982   1992    2001    2002
(US$millions)
Totaldebt outstandingand disbursed       875  2,699    2,911   2,801
  IBRD                                     0      0        0       0
  IDA                                    154   611       981   1,131                     G: 151

Total debt service                        20     59       80     89
  IBRD                                     0      0        0       0
  IDA                                      2      7       13      10
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                         79   203       191
  Official creditors                     111    133       67     95
  Private creditors                        4     -3        0       0
  Foreign direct investment                2    -22      103
  Portfolioequity                          0      0        0
World Bank program
  Commitments                             52     46      140      0
  Disbursements                           14                           A - IBRD
                                                 62       71                                               E Bilateral
                                                                 89    B IDA
                                                                          .        D Other multilateral
                                                                                     -                     F Private
                                                                                                            --
  Principalrepayments                      0      3        6      4    C IMF
                                                                          -                                G. Short-!em
  Netflows                                14     59       65     85
  interest payments                        1      4        7       7
  Net transfers                           13    54        58     78




                                                    - 42 -

                                     Additional Annex 10: Monitoring & Evaluation
                               MALI: Mali DevelopmentLearning Center project                - LIL

Evaluation           Required                Data Gathering                 BaselineInformation Analysis, Reporting,
Questions            Information,and         Methods,Frequencies            Requirements,          Feedbackand
                     indicators (identifies  and Responsibilities           Statusand              ChangeProcesses
                     information, which may  (establishes information       Responsibilities       and Responsibilities
                     include indicators,     collection and analysis        (identifiesrequired    (establishes overall
                     required to answer the  methods)                       baseline information)  analysis to be done and
                     key evaluation                                                                howfindings will be
                     auestions)                                                                    used)
Ibjective: To
est the
ffectiveness
Ind
ustainability
I fa
levelopment
earning
enter as part
ifa global
mowledge-sha
*ingnetwork
o strengthen
he capacityof
wblic, private
md civil
ociety
lecision
nakers and
mplementers
o design,plan
md manage
ocial and
conomic
levelopment
bolicies and
irogramsin
aali
 Whatis the impact IAt least 40% from Y1 I 1) DLC will hire a consultant    1) The target group    Results will be analyzed
 of the learning    and 60% from Y3 o f     to conduct pre andpost         will be civil servants by the consultant andused
program?            the sampled             surveys o f selected civil     iominatedor            by the DLCto improve the
                    participants have       servant participants (from Y1  sponsoredfor DLC        training strategy, in
                    improved their          and Y3) andtheir supervisors   :raining and whose      consultation with the
                    capacity to design,     (based on Kirk Patrick's       :erms o f reference     Board. Both the results o f
                    plan and manage         Level 3 measure o f behavior). ,nclude planning,       the analysis andthe
                    social and economic     Post training data will be     lesigning, or           change process shouldbe
                    development policies    collected from participants    nanaging social and     documented, as
                    and programs as         and their supervisors no       xonomic development     appropriate inthe
                   judged by both           earlier than six months after  Jolicies and programs.  business plans, Board
                    participants and their  the training                   Data to be collected    Minutes, and annual
                    supervisors                                            will identify the       progress reports.



                                                                 - 4 3 -

                                                                            :ontent, and              The results shouldbe
                                                                            xoportion o f work        available for the
                 - Descriptions o fwhat                                     :onsisting o f            mid-term review andthe
                 they are doing                                             lesigning, planning or    end-of-project evaluation
                 differently, how it is                                     nanaging o fpolicies
                 working out, and if                                        indprograms. Further
                 they are not doing                                         letails for this process
                  anything different,                                       ire provided under
                  explanation o fwhy                                        'Additional
                                                                            :nformation" at the
                                                                            :nd o fthe matrix

                                                                                                     I




{ow effective      At least 40% from Y1, :valuation techniques (based or 're performanceand          Results will be analyzedby
zarningprogi     50% from Y2,60% fron ;irk Patrick's Level 2 measure        ontent tests (DLC)       DLC andusedto improve
                 f 3 and 70% o f the       f learning) willbe conducted                              the training program each
                  ;ampled participants     y the DLC on at least 40% o f                             quarter. The quarterly
                  lave improved            11training courses conducted                              Boardsessions should
                  cnowledge and/or skills  ach quarterlyear                                          provide a forum for further
                 )rchanged attitude as a                                                             discussion, input and
                  .esult o f the training                                                            review. Both the results o f
                                                                                                     the analysis and the change
                  'Summary description                                                               process shouldbe
                 iflevelandtype of                                                                   documented inthe business
                  earning gained                                                                     plans, BoardMinutes, and
                                                                                                     annuallquarterlyprogress
                  'Explanation for any                                                               reports. Information
                  earning failures                                                                   required for the supervision
                                                                                                     missions, mid-term review
                                                                                                      and the end-project
                                                                                                      evaluation
s the busines3    'The Center should       )LC analyses financial viabilit) 3usiness plan             Findings usedby DLC, in
inancially via   neet the operating        tatus each year                  danual o fProcedures      consultationwith the Board
!rethe mecha      :xpenses o f (excluding                                   'AD                       to adjust the business plan,
)utin place      imortization) o f up to                                    'IP                       includingpolicies and
ustainable?       LO%, 40%, 60% and                                                                  procedures
                 30% respectively during
                  he first four years from                                                            Results o f the analysis and
                 ;enerated income and                                                                 the change process should
                 :nsure financial                                                                     be documented inthe
                 :quilibrium as early as                                                              subsequent quarterly and
                  he fifth year o f                                                                   annual progress reports/
                  )peration                                                                           business plans and Minutes
                                                                                                      o f the Board and the
                  'Performance on the      istitutional audit (consultant                             consultative meetings.
                 :stablishment o f         ired by DLC) during                                        Information required for tht
                 xocesses, structures,     'ear 2                                                     supervisionmissions,
                 :apacities, and resources                                                            mid-term review and
                  hat enable a continued                                                              end-project evaluation
                 )enefit from the project,
                  ncluding identification
                 )fbest practices



                                                               - 4 4 -

3utput 1: DLC
Iperationaland
tdequately
:quipped
:oprovidethe
-equiredservices
Have the outputs,   Assessment o f actual     Quarterly review o f planned  PIP                    The MoF and IDA will
activities h inputs performance against       inputs, activities and                               review progress reports
been delivered and  the work plan             outputs by the Project                               and, inparticular, ensure
on time and within  including                 Coordination                                         that timely corrective
budget?             performance for the                                                            actions were taken and
                    indicators listed inthe                                                        that any
                    log frame belowHighly                                                          recommendations
                    effective Project                                                              suggested are
                    Coordinator supported                                                          appropriate. The report
                    by an efficient
                    Accountantand                                                                  will also serve as a guide
                    Procurement Officer in                                                         for further improvement
                    placeat the DLCDLC's                                                           decisions,
                    independent                                                                    recommendations or
                    registration and Board                                                         actions. Both the results
                    set-up completed                                                               o f the analysis and the
                    Center's land                                                                  change process should be
                    allocated by host                                                              documented inthe
                    institution and facility                                                       quarterlylfinal progress
                   builtand equipped                                                               report and made
                    within the time and                                                            available for the
                    standards required                                                             supervisionmissions and
                    Highquality DLC                                                                the mid-term review
                    staff recruited
!.l effective
   An
indneeds based
rainingprogram
tstablishedand
mplementedto
:nhancethe skills
tnd performance
ifcivil servants
 To what extent is  - No. and type o f        D L C compilation o f : (a)   Market                 The information will be
theprogram or       courses developed or      comparison o f actual         StudyITraining         analyzed(annually) by
courses offered     supplied that             courses offered versus those  Needs Assessment       DLCto identify
meeting the needs   correspond to the         identified as needed          conducted at the start wherehow needs are
of the Government   training needs            (annually); (b) results o f   o f the project by a   being met and the gaps.
and other           identified for (a) civil  customer satisfaction         consultant hiredby     This information will be
beneficiaries?      servants (b) others       questionnaires (e.g. Kirk     the DLC.               usedby the DLC andto
                                              Patrick's Level 1 measure of                         improve the training
                    - Reactions from         reaction) from all courses     The training needs o f strategy and to obtain
                    trained (a) civil        (quarterly); (c) DLC's         projects collected by  feedback from
                    servants and (b) others  response to courses            DLC annually as part   consultative planning
                                             identified by projects         o f the Business Plan  meetings and Board


                                                                  - 45 -

                                                (annually); and (d) results                           sessions. Results o fthe
                     - Assessment o fthe        o f the collaboration with the Strategy paper by the  analysis and the change
                     DLC's responsiveness       Govt. training strategy        Board on integrating   process should be
                     to and linkages            (annual).                      and linkingthe D L C   documented inthe
                     (institutional and                                        with the Govt.         annual progress
                     operational) with the      D L C Board's review o f       Training Strategy      reportshusiness plans
                     Govt. public service      performance on strategy to                             and Minutes o f the Board
                     training strategy          strengthen linkages between                           and the consultative
                                               the DLC and the Govt.                                  meetings. Information
                     - Ability o fthe DLC      Training Strategy                                      required for the
                     to provide the training    (quarterly)                                           supervision missions,
                     requiredby                                                                       mid-term review and
                     development projects      The Market StudyITraining                              end-project evaluation
                                               Needs Assessment repeated
                                                annually to review needs &
                                                demand
s the training in    . Number o f (a) civil   )LC compiles list o fvarious     nrollment records      esults of the analysis by
'emand,particularly servant and (b) private    articipants, including their                           'LCon an annual basis
y thoseplanning an6 :c) NGO that are           rofessions and locations        farket StudyITraining  .ill usedtoimprove
                                                                                                          be
wplementing social   molling (numbers         quarterly)                       lee&                   iarketing design and
rnd economic         ;hown by course and in                                                            ient strategy with the
'evelopmentpolicies .otal as well as client   'he Market StudyITraining                                oard assistance and
ind programs?         ocation)                leeds Assessment repeated                               :edback from the Board
                                              nnually incorporates                                    idconsultative meetings.
                     .Extent to which non     iformation on (i)total number
                     Jarticipants inquire      fpotentialclients inthe civil                          .esults o f the analysis and
                     ibout the DLC andits     ervice markeuproject target                             Le change process should
                     rervices                  roup; (ii)number who showec                             e documented inprogress
                                              iterest from previous market                            :portshusiness plans and
                     .Comparisono factual     tudy but didnot apply; (iii)                            linutes o fthe Board and
                     Jarticipants vs the       umber o f nonparticipants whc                          le consultative meetings,
                     lumber o f potential      ave approached the DLC; and                            iformation required for
                     :lients inthe civil      iv) sample survey to obtain                             le supervision mission,
                     service marketlproject   :asons for non-enrollment                               lid-term review and
                     :arget group                                                                     nd-project evaluation

                     .Explanation o fwhy
                     ionparticipants do not
                     .ake advantage o f the
                      earning opportunities,
                     )rwhat are the barriers
                      o greater participation
"0what extent are    .Number o f institutions  ILCto (i) numbers
                                                           review              'otential training      3.e analysis will be used
4alian institutions  mdlocal experts using     luarterly; (ii)review           iroviders identifiedin nnually by DLC to adjust
ncreasingly using the he center each year      ierformance annually based on he market studies and     ts strategy inthe business
ILC as a centerfor                             lemand, client feedback and     ontinuously by the      dan. The performance o f
'elivering learning  .Assessment on the        ither evaluations indicated in  )LC through             he strategy shouldbe
!ctivitiestopartner  ierformance o f the local he M&Eplan; and (iii)    review onsultations            eported inthe annual
'enters?             mdother training          ts own performance annually                             rogress report.
                     irovider institutions     inthe strategy to enhance local itrategy to enhance
                                               nstitutions and experts         oca1institutions
                     .Explanation o fbarriers                                  iarticipation with
                      o greater participation                                  argets built into the



                                                                    -46-

                                                                                nnual business plans




                     3 ftheir services
b what extent has th4-Summary report on        DLC to: (i) include a question                            'he information will be
:enter raised        reactions from clients    on the IT aspect at least twice a                         sedbythe DLC to
wareness on the      and other partners        year in level 1evaluations; (ii)                          etermine the value o f IT as
due of IT and                                  gather information from                                    learning expectation in
ractical learning                              continuous consultations; and                             l e pilot and to adjust its
pportunities on the                            (iii) feedbackfromall
                                                    obtain                                               aining strategy if
enter's IT operation:                          local individualstinstitutions                            ecessary
                                               working for the Center.                                   Lesults o f the review should
                                                                                                         e reported inthe annual
                                                                                                         rogress report.
row does the DLC     - Analysis o f current andThe Market StudytTraining        :ompetition strategy     he analysis will be used
ice current and      future competition and Needs Assessment repeated           repared and updated      nnually by DLC to adjust
iture competition by its implication to the    annually incorporates            ach year as part o f the s strategy in the business
ther providers       Center                    informationon other training     usiness plan             Ian. The performance o f
                                               providers                                                 le strategy shouldbe
                                                                                                         :ported inthe annual
                                                Inaddition DLC collects                                  rogress reports
                                               information from the regular
                                               consultations with local and
                                               international training providers

                     - DLC'S                   Performance on the competitive
                     responsetperformance      strategy reviewed and
                                               incorporatedin annual progress
                                               reports by DLC
.2. A viable,
elf-sustaining
.ndwell
nanaged
nstitution
stablished to
irovide relevant
iighquality
ervices
Is itproviding       -Customer satisfaction   IResults o fthe basic post                                  Results o f the analysis by
high quality,        feedback                  training (level 1)                                         DLCwill be used on a
responsive, and                                questionnaires compiled                                    quarterly basis to
customer                                       quarterly for all courses                                  improve services
orientated services
                     -Perceptions from the     Perceptions sought during                                  The results o f the
                     Board and other           consultative meetings held                                 analysis and the change
                     stakeholders and          with the Board at least each                              process shouldbe
                     partners                  quarter and in wider (govt.                                documented inprogress
                                               agencies, academics, private                               reportsibusiness plans
                                               sector, etc.) consultative                                 and Minutes o f the Board



                                                                    -47  -

                                                  neetings held at least twice a
                        -Reports                  qear
                        demonstrating that
                        management is
                        responsive to             Juarterly and annual
                        changing needs and        xogress reports by DLC
                       providing adequate         nclude change processes
                        direction (pricing,       nitiated as a result o f
                        marketing,                xoblems, changes, or
                        fund-raising,             `Indings identified and also
                        awareness building)      .euorted
Are theproject's       -Assessment o f actual     )LC quarterly and annual         ;usinessplans    The results o f DLC's
expected immediate     performance against        eview o fplanned inputs,         IP               review, includingthe
results, outputs,     business plans,             ctivities, outputs, and results AD                feedback from the Board,
activities, and inputs includingperformance       gainst business plan                              DLC and WB will be used
being delivered?       indicators listed inthe                                                     by DLC to adjust or outline
                       log frame/M&E plan        mplementation reviewed by tht                      new directions inthe
                                                  goard (comments formally                          business plan and/or the
                                                  ubmitted following each                           M&Eplanfollowing the
                                                  ubmission) andthe Board                           quarterly and annual
                                                  comments obtained duringthe                       assessments
                                                  goardmeetings) inresponse to
                                                  luarterly and annual progress                     Results o f the analysis and
                                                  eports submitted by DLC                           the change process should
                                                                                                    be documented inthe
                                                  lupervision missions (annual)                     subsequent quarterly and
                                                  ndmid-term review assessto                        annual progress reports/
                                                  ghat extent and with what                         business plans and
                                                  egree o f efficiency operational                  Minutes ofthe Board and
                                                 lrograms and activities product                    the consultative meetings.
                                                 he desired results and their                       Informationrequired for
                                                  oherence (BoardWB)                                the supervision missions,
                                                                                                    mid-term review and
                                                                                                    end-project evaluation
Are the identified      Status of the critical    )LC incorporates project risks   4&E plan          The results of DLC's
project risks or the    isks and progress on      nthe M&E plan and annual         .ogframe          review, including the
critical assumptions    rctions taken to mitigate usiness plans. Status and        hsiness Plans     feedback from the Board,
indicated in the M&E hem                          d o n on risks are reviewed                        DLC andWB will be used
plan and the business                             md reported on as part o f the                     by DLC to adjust or outline
plans? Are the risks                              luarterly and annual reporting                     new directions inthe
being monitored and                               irocess                                            business plan and/or the
are the agreed action,                                                                               M&E planfollowing the
being taken to                                                                                       quarterly and annual
mitigate them?                                                                                       assessments
                                                                                                     Results o f the analysis and
                                                                                                     the change process should
                                                                                                     be documented inthe
                                                                                                     subsequent quarterly and
                                                                                                     annual progress
                                                                                                     reportshsiness plans and
                                                                                                     Minutes o f the Board and
                                                                                                     the consultative meetings.
                                                                                                     Informationrequired for tht



                                                                       -48  -

                                                                                                        supervision missions,
                                                                                                        mid-term review and
                                                                                                        end-project evaluation
Are resources used in -Financial performance Audits organized by the DLC                                Findings shared with the
an optimal manner,      -Operational             annually                                               Board and DLC and used
andfunds spent in      performance                                                                      by managementto outline
accordance with work                             Annual financial reviews by                            new directions, policies
plans and using the                              DLC contained inthe financial                          and procedures. The
rightprocedures?                                 reports                                                change process should be
                                                                                                        documented inthe
                                                                                                        subsequent annual
                                                                                                        progress report
  the Center moving -Performance on cost         DLC monitors on a monthly                              Findings usedby DLC to
towardsfinancial       recovery and utilization basis the revenues and                                  adjust the business plan,
sustainability?        rate targets below:       expenditures including cost                            including the training and
                       Cost recovery at leastat  recovery and utilization rates                         marketing strategies
                       20% ofthe operatingCosts with reporting on a quarterly
                       for yl, 40% for y2$ 60% and annual basis on actual vs.                           Results o fthe analysis and
                       for y3,        for y4 and planned financial targets
                       Center is selfsustainingby                                                       the change process should
                       Y5                                                                               be documented inthe
                       Utilization rates are at                                                         subsequent quarterly and
                       least: 15%, 25%, 40%,                                                            annual progress
                       50%, and65% for eachof                                                           reportshusiness plans and
                       the first five years                                                             Minutes o f the Board and
                                                                                                        the consultative meetings
                                                                                                        Informationrequired for thc
                                                                                                         supervision missions,
                                                                                                        mid-term review and
                                                                                                         end-project evaluation
How effective are the -Summary report on         The client and training         I L Cparticipation plan DLC analyses the results
various levels of      participation             provider participation is being :section inthe annual   and adjusts participation
participation          Derformance               monitored inother sections o f  iusiness plan)          strategies to improve
required, including                              this plan. On a quarterly and                           performance
the roles identifiedfoi                          annual basis DLC will
them in the PAD'S                                summarize this informationto                            The results shouldbe
learning expectations                            answer the evaluation question                          incorporated inbusiness
(training providers,                             and include a review on the                             planstprogress reports and
clients, Board and                               Board, and donors                                       inconsultative meetings,
                                                 participation. The review will                          Board sessions, and
                                                 report on: (i)actual                                    supervision missions
                                                 participation versus
                                                 expectations set out in the
                                                 participation plans; (ii)the
                                                 barriers to greater
                                                 participation; and (iii)DLC's
                                                 performance on improving
                                                 participation

                                                 DLC should incorporate
                                                 Board's input in the

                                                                                 ?AD                     Results o f the evaluation ar
institutional          Aide Memoire              information generated from the Zorrespondence           contained inthe Aide



                                                                     - 49 -

                                              ,
zpacities built to a                            vi&E planand containedin        PIP                      Memoiresandusedto
itisfactory level as                            )regress reports, as well as    MOP                      adjust policies, procedures
ivisaged in the                                 nformation from consultations DLC Progressreports        or the project design as
?sign                                           luring annual supervision       andbusiness plans        appropriate.
                                                nissions                        PreviousAide

DLC,Board, and tht                                                              Memoires                 The change process is
'orkingarrangement                                                              BoardMinutes             incorporatedinsubsequent
otween them)?                                                                                            businessplansandprogress
                                                                                                         reportsby DLC

                                                                                                         Information requiredfor
                                                                                                         subsequent mission, the
                                                                                                         mid-term and end-of-projecl
                                                                                                         evaluations
ras the DLC          - Comparisonoftraining-The Market StudyITraining           The Market               DLC analysesthe results
nproved reach and    offered andpreviously       eeds Assessment repeated       StudyITrainingNeeds      for strengths,
ccess?               unavailablelocally        annually incorporates            Assessment               opportunities, gaps, and
                                               information on coursesthat are                            weaknesses. Issues should
                     - Growth inparticipant demandedandunavailable              Enrollment information be addressed and
                     numbers (incl.            locally. DLC assesses this                                incorporatedinbusiness
                     typesllevelsof            against what it offers (annually) Sample report ofpeople planslprogressreports and
                     professionsand client                                      who showed interest but inconsultativemeetings,
                     locations)                -DLC compilesparticipant         didnot apply             Boardsessions, and
                                               growth innumbers and payment                              supervisionmissions
                     - % (tbd) ofGovt. and sources (annually)                    Board's contingency
                     private sector officials                                   plan to mitigate the risk
                     willing to pay for the    -DLC's reviewsresults ofthe      of inadequate Govt.
                     services incomparison awareness andmarketing               training funds for
                     to those subsidized.      strategy inthe businessplan       training
                     - Ability of the DLC to   (annually)
                                                                                 DLC's Planto reduce
                     Offer lower      training -DLC reviewsprogressmade onbarriersto greater
                     with moreparticipants     reducingbarriersto greater        participation
                     - Performance   on        participation (annually)

                     awareness and             - DLC reviewscost of DLC
                     marketing strategy        training vs. overseas or
                     - Performanceon           face-to-face training annually

                     resolvingbarriersto         asedon a sample study of two

                     greater participation     ~oursesa year




htput 3: A
nechanism
istablishedand
itilizedto
:nablean
n-depth
inderstanding
Ifkey successes

and failures and
to allow for the
use of lessons
learnt and
experiences
gained at local
and global levels


3.1 M&E capacity
needsassessment
undertakenand
programdesigned
and implementedto
address needs

  I s M&E
  information being
  generated at all
  levels and in a
  timely, efficient,
  and cost
  effective?
- Timely and          DLC reviews            a&Eplan           Findings usedby
comprehensive         progress on the                          DLC and the Board
progress reports      implementation o f     Log frame         to adjust the M&E
 and business plans   the M&E plan on a                        plan which may
 that contain M&E     quarterly and annual                     include aspects
 information at all   basis and includes                       relatedto capacity,
 levels (as per the   this information in                      resources, reporting
 M&Eplan)             progress reports and                     formats, procedures
                      business plans                           or planning, etc.
 -Actual
 implementation o f   The Boardreviews                         Results o f the
 M&E activities are   the quarterly and                        analysis and the
 delivered on time    annual progress                          change process
 andwithin the        reports and annual                       shouldbe
 requirements set in  business plans, in                       documented inthe
 the M&Eplan          particular: (i)quality                   subsequent quarterly
                      interms ofM&E                            and annual progress
                      reporting; (ii)                          reports. Information
                      usehlness of the                         required for the
                      M&E- are change                          mid-term review and
                      processes initiated to                   end-of-project
                      address findings and                     evaluation
                      reported on? and
I                     (iii)actual
                      performance on the
                      implementation o f
                      the M&E plan.
                      Feedback contained
                      inthe formal
                      comments submitted



                                                        -51-

                       quarterly

                       Consultant desk
                       study to review
                       M&E
                       implementation,
                       including
                       generation, capacity,
                       delivery, quality,
                       cost, efficiency, and
                       relevance




 3.2 An M&E
 system that is
 realistic, effective
 and provides
 information at
1~
 bothlocal and
 global levels
                      ,Descriptiono fwhere   Zonsultant desk study          M&E plan, progress    Findings usedby DLC
  provide useful      mdhow M&Ehas or        racking M&Eflow, lessons       reports and business  and the Boardto improve
  lessons and         ias not helped to      Irawn, decisions and related   plans                 internal and external
  improve the         mprove the project.    ierformance                                          usefulness o f M&E.
  ongoing                                                                                         Results incorporatedin
  functioning of the  ,Positive feedback on  4nnual survey for users on the Feedback from users   business plans &
  project?            he value and           isefulness o f the shared                            progress reports
                      isefulness o f the     nformation
                      vl&E information
                       andwhy) is obtained    Useful lessons identified                           Results o f the analysis
                      kom DLC staff and       once a year by D L C through                        and the change process
                      Ither stakeholders      consultations. Relevant                             should be documented in
                                              information is collected, and                       the subsequent quarterly
                      ,Positive feedback on   shared with feedback                                and annual progress
                      he value and            sought. Examples o f such                           reports. Information
                      isefulness o f the      lessons could include the                           required for the
                       essons learnt (and     merits o f the DLC,                                 supervision missions,
                      vhy) is obtained from   conditions necessary for                            mid-term review and
                       oca1and international  successful                                          end-of-project evaluation
                      igencies                implementationhest
                                              practices, how the Center
                                              relates with the wider public
                                              service Mali context,
                                              evaluation experiences, etc.
                                              (The information required
                                              for these useful lessons is
                                              already beinggenerated as
                                              part o f the M&E plan)



                                                                 - 52 -

AdditionalInformation:

1) LinkingTrainingto the Capacity to Design, Plan,and Manage Social and Economic Development
Policies and Programs: The design will identify a specific group of people who will serve as the target
group for assessing the impact of the training. This can only be done when the DLC is operational and the
first trainees are confirmed. The required baseline data on their performance will be collected both from
themselves and (most importantly)their supervisors prior to the training. The data will then be compared to
the end-of-training evaluations, i.e. levels 1 and 2, and after six months using level 3 evaluation (described
below) to determine impact.

Pre-test: It is proposed that this information include basic data on at least the first 300 trainees.      More
specifically the DLC will collaborate with the Board to:


0    collect baseline data from the first 100 civil servants, 100 private sector, and 100 civil society trainees
who request training and whose job description includes designing, planning, and managing social and
economic development policies and programs.
0    Each prospective trainee will fill out a survey identifying specific tasks that he/she does as part of
designing, planning, or managing social and economic policies or program.


0    Each prospective trainee will identify the specific tasks in which he/she would like to improve hisher
skills.

It is impractical and probably notnecessaryto interview the supervisors of all the trainees. Itis
recommended that the M&E unit aim to:


0    collect information from a sample comprising 10% of the supervisors of the trainees, or 30 people being,
10 from each sector (public, private and civil). Suitable sampling techniques will ensure the 30 supervisors
are representative of the supervisors of all the 3,000 trainees.
0    Interview or administer questionnaires to the supervisors so as identify the tasks of the trainee that are
consistent with designing, planning, managing social, and economic development policies and programs.
0    Identify areas inwhich the trainee(s) need(s) capacity building.

Each supervisor will be presented with outlines o f the proposed training programs and requested to:


0    assess the relative saliency of the proposed areas of training for upgrading the trainees' performance.

Post Test: At the end of the training the DLC will conduct its own Level 1and 2 evaluation and no earlier
than six months after the training, a follow-up study should be done on the 300 trainees and the sample of 30
supervisors. Again, questionnaires would be the simplest tool with questions that mirror what was asked
before the training. For example, the trainees would be asked to:


0    identify components of hiskerjob dealing with designing, planning or managing social and economic
development policies and programs;


                                                             - 53 -

0  specify the extent to which skills or knowledge inthese areas hadbeen addressed inthe training;
0  specify the extent to which he/she had acquired new skills or knowledge inthe training;
0  specify the extent to which hehhe hadused any of the new skills or knowledge; and
0  specify the extent to which (and why) designing, managing or planninghadbecome easier or harder as a
result of the training.




                                                         - 54 -

