                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR1903



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H0900)

                                     ON A

                    LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN

   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.7 MILLION (US$ 2.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF MALI

                                    FOR A

          MALI DEVELOPMENT LEARNING CENTER PROJECT - LIL


                                April 10, 2012




AFRCP – Capacity Development & Partnerships
AFCW3
Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective June 20, 2011)

                       Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                         1.00 = US$ 0.00218067
                          US$ 1.00 = 458.061

                            FISCAL YEAR
                       January 01 to December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AADLC    Association of African Distance Learning Centers
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DLC      Development Learning Center (GDLN Center)
CFD      Centre de Formation pour le Développement (Mali GDLN Center)
GDLN     Global Development Learning Network
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IP       Implementation Performance
ISG      Information Solutions Group
KPI(s)   Key Performance Indicator(s)
LIL      Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E      Monitoring & Evaluation
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGO(s)   Non Governmental Organization(s)
NS       National Shopping
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PDO      Project Development Objective
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
WBI      World Bank Institute
      Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
    Country Director: Ousmane Diagana
     Sector Manager: Tijan M. Sallah
Project Team Leader: Marc Jean Yves Lixi
   ICR Team Leader: Susana Carrillo
                                     MALI
                       Development Learning Center Project




                                    CONTENTS

Data Sheet
       A. Basic Information
       B. Key Dates
       C. Ratings Summary
       D. Sector and Theme Codes
       E. Bank Staff
       F. Results Framework Analysis
       G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
       H. Restructuring
       I. Disbursement Graph


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design………………………….1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes………………………….4
3. Assessment of Outcomes……………………………………………………….10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome…………………………………14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance……………………………….15
6. Lessons Learned………………………………………………………………...16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners…...18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing……………………………………………..18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component…………………………………………………..19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis………………………………………..26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes…….27
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results………………………………………………27
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ……………………………...27
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR………… 28
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders……………45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents……………………………………………45
A. Basic Information
                                                                       Mali Development
Country:                Mali                    Project Name:          Learning Center project
                                                                       - LIL
Project ID:             P082187                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-H0900
ICR Date:               03/16/2012              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     LIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       MALI
Original Total
                        XDR 1.70M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 1.67M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 1.67M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 UNDP - PNUD

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/24/2003     Effectiveness:          07/15/2005        07/15/2005
Appraisal:            01/30/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/21/2004     Mid-term Review:        06/25/2007
                                     Closing:                06/30/2009        05/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory          Government:      Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Unsatisfactory                           Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                                                        50
Vocational training                                                   100                   50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                                     25
Education for the knowledge economy                                    100                  25
Infrastructure services for private sector development                                      25
Participation and civic engagement                                                          25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Ousmane Diagana                      A. David Craig
Sector Manager:            Tijan M. Sallah                      Nicolas M. Gorjestani
Project Team Leader:       Susana Carrillo                      Marc Jean Yves Lixi
ICR Team Leader:           Susana Carrillo
ICR Primary Author:        Rosemary M. Cubagee


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to test the effectiveness and sustainability of a
development learning center as part of a global knowledge-sharing network to strengthen
the capacity of public, private and civil society decision makers and implementers to
design, plan and manage social and economic development policies.




                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval         Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years
                Number of project directors trained in the DLC, implementing best practice
Indicator 1 :
                guidelines on managing development projects
Value                                      At least 2 new
quantitative or 0                          Directors each                    10
Qualitative)                               year
Date achieved 01/30/2004                   05/24/2004                        06/20/2011
Comments
(incl. %        83%
achievement)
                Number of specific initiatives introduced that impact PRSP implementation in
Indicator 2 :
                designated areas covered by distance learning
                                           At least 2 the first
Value
                                           year and 3 in each
quantitative or 0                                                            3
                                           twelve months
Qualitative)
                                           period thereafter
Date achieved 01/30/2004                   05/24/2004                        06/20/2011
Comments
(incl. %        15%
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Ability to cover operating expenses through fees
                                           60% of operating
                                           expenses to be
Value                                      covered by
quantitative or 0                          revenue generation                0%
Qualitative)                               by the 3rd year of
                                           the Center
                                           operations
Date achieved 01/30/2004                   05/24/2004                        06/20/2011
Comments
                At closing date, the CFD was not yet fully operational and had only organized a
(incl. %
                few activities which generated very little income
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Number of training institutions using the DLC
                                           At least 2 new
Value                                      training
quantitative or 0                          institutions each                 2
Qualitative)                               year of
                                           implementation
Date achieved 01/30/2004                   05/24/2004                        06/20/2011
Comments        17.6%



                                               iii
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   Number of training sessions held at the DLC
                                          80 training
                                          sessions have been
                                          held during the
                                          first twelve
Value
                                          months of Project
quantitative or 0                                                             22
                                          Implementation
Qualitative)
                                          and 120 such
                                          sessions in each
                                          twelve months
                                          period thereafter
Date achieved 01/30/2004                  05/24/2004                          06/20/2011
Comments
(incl. %        27.5%
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 : Number of civil servants trained
                                           800 the first year,
                                           1500 the second
Value
                                           year, 3000 the
(quantitative   0                                                               386
                                           third year and
or Qualitative)
                                           4500 the fourth
                                           year
Date achieved 01/30/2004                   05/24/2004                           06/20/2011
Comments
(incl. %        48% - Center was not fully operational at closing date
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Number of private sector, NGO or civil society participants
                                           At least 5% the
Value
                                           first year, and 5
(quantitative   0                                                               8%
                                           additional % each
or Qualitative)
                                           year
Date achieved 01/30/2004                   05/24/2004                           06/20/2011
Comments
                The achievement of this IO Indicator exceeds the original target value, although
(incl. %
                the Center was not fully operational at closing date
achievement)
                Number and type of training courses offered by the DLC that corresponds to the
Indicator 3 :
                identified needs of the market study, the national training strategy and projects
Value                                      10 the first year
(quantitative   0                          and 2 more every                     9
or Qualitative)                            year


                                                iv
Date achieved 01/30/2004              05/24/2004                            06/20/2011
Comments
(incl. %      90%
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                             IP               Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    11/20/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  2    04/08/2005   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               0.00
                         Moderately                    Moderately
  3    12/01/2005                                                                        0.18
                       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                    Moderately
  4    02/14/2006                                                                        0.51
                       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                    Moderately
  5    01/09/2007                                                                        0.60
                       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
  6    02/20/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                0.64
  7    11/27/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                0.87
                         Moderately                    Moderately
  8    06/13/2008                                                                        0.87
                       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately
  9    11/30/2008                                 Moderately Satisfactory                0.94
                       Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately
 10    06/30/2009                                 Moderately Satisfactory                1.09
                       Unsatisfactory
 11    12/31/2009   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                1.62
 12    06/29/2010   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                1.86
                         Moderately                    Moderately
 13    05/03/2011                                                                        2.44
                       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

A distance learning center (DLC) was a new concept for Mali at appraisal. Despite the
presence of local training institutions then, there were no information technology (IT)
facilities for allowing the sharing of information and exchanging knowledge with other
countries. Moreover, the Government had expressed interest in accessing and delivering
training courses that would support capacity development efforts for the civil service and,
in particular, the implementation of reforms in areas such as health, local government,
legal, and education as well as in functions related to procurement, accounting, service
delivery, restructuring, budgeting or performance management.

The distance learning center project was aimed at improving the implementation of the
PRSP and related development projects by building the capacity in the public and private
sectors, and strengthening the environment for policy reform. It also aimed to help
coordinate all local training institutions in regard to the national capacity building policy
by making coherent, through the DLC Board, all the courses and learning events offered
by local training institutions.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The original PDO and Key Indicators as per the Development Grant Agreement (Report Number
H090 MLI) are as follows:


The main objective of this Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) was to test the
effectiveness and sustainability of a development learning center in Mali as part of a
global knowledge-sharing network to strengthen the capacity of public, private and civil
society decision makers to design, plan and manage social and economic development
policies.

The Key Performance Indicators as per the Grant Agreement (schedule 5) were the
following:

   1. Number of high level project staff (at least 2 the first year and 3 new each twelve
      months period thereafter), trained in the Development Learning Center program,
      implementing best practice guidelines on managing development projects.

   2. Number of specific initiatives introduced that impact on the Poverty Reduction
      Strategy Paper implementation in designated areas covered by distance learning
      (at least 2 the first year and 3 in each twelve month period thereafter)

   3. Ability to cover operating expenses through fees (60% of operating expenses to
      be covered by revenue generation by the 3rd year of the Center operations).

                                             1
   4. Number of private or public entities using the DLC (at least 2 new entities each
      year of implementation).

   5. 80 training sessions have been held during the first twelve months of Project
      Implementation, and 120 each session in each twelve months period.

   6. Variance of content offered in the training sessions has covered at least 3 specific
      sectors during the first twelve months of Project Implementation, and 5 such
      sectors in each twelve-month period thereafter

   7. At least 40% from the first Project Year, 50% from the second Project Year, 60%
      from the third Project Year, and 70% from the fourth Project Year of the sampled
      participants have improved knowledge and/or skills as a result of the training.

   8. Number and type of courses developed or supplied that correspond to the training
      needs identified for: (a) civil servants, (b) other participants (at least 30%).


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The original project objectives and the key indicators were not revised over the life of the
project, however, the following major adjustments were made: (i) extension of the
refinancing date of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF); (ii) Amendment of
Development Grant Agreement (DGA) in relations to the Procurement of goods and
services; and (iii) extension of the Project closing date (See Section 2.2).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The main target audience for the DLC consists of (i) decision makers and civil servants
from the public sector, (ii) the World Bank and (iii) non-public sector development actors
such as civil society organizations, private sector, NGOs and community associations.
As experience has shown elsewhere, an important segment of the market for the DLC
services would come from NGOs, civil society organizations and the private sector.

The training needs for Bank and donor-financed projects covered technical, policy and
management areas that could also be supported by the DLC, with the benefit of
outreaching a larger audience and decreasing the cost for travel and training abroad. Most
World Bank-funded projects in Mali include a capacity development component.
However, they are not designed to use distance learning and other services used by the
center. Another important role envisaged for the DLC was to promote South-South
knowledge exchange.




                                             2
1.5 Original Components

The project has three main components:
   (i) DLC construction and equipment
   (ii) Support of the DLC operations
   (iii) Monitoring and evaluation

Component 1 aimed at setting-up the institutional, physical and human resources
requirements for the DLC
   - Construction of facilities for the DLC, including: (a) provision of a
       videoconference room with at least a 30-person capacity; (b) a computer room
       outfitted for at least 30 computer stations (with hardware, software and Internet
       hook-up); (c) a technical and administrative center, including office spaces, a
       room for trainers and a conference room; and (d) mechanical outfitting such as
       installation of electrical and telephone wiring.

   -   Acquisition and installation of DLC technical equipment, including: (a) a very
       small aperture terminal (VSAT); (b) a satellite communication center, lighting
       system, video, audio, telecommunications and simultaneous interpretation
       equipment; (c) office and classroom furniture and a light weight vehicle for the
       DLC staff.

   -   Recruitment of DLC staff, including a director, a training coordinator, an
       information technology officer, an accountant and an administrative assistant.
       The Centre de Formation pour le Développement du Mali (CFD Mali) was
       established as a Scientific and Technological Public Establishment (Etablissement
       Public à Caractère Scientifique - EPST). It operates under the authority of the
       Ministry of Economy.

Component 2 aimed at supporting the DLC for (i) strengthening its human, financial,
operational management and business planning capabilities and (ii) developing,
marketing, sourcing and scheduling of its training programs, through the provision of
technical advisory services and training.

Component 3 aimed at setting up a Monitoring and Evaluation system that will assess
the impact of the Project.

1.6 Revised Components

The project components were not revised

1.7 Other significant changes.

The following significant changes were made: On September 20, 2007, the Government
requested for an Amendment of the Development Grant Agreement (DGA H090-MLI) in the
Government Letter Ref: 301/MEIC-SG. The reason for the request is to allow the project to
contract an agency (UNDP) specialized in procurement to procure the technical equipment for the

                                              3
center (See Table 1 – Summary of Major Events that affected Project Implementation). IDA
approved the Government’s request and amended the DGA on December 14, 2007.           The
Government signed on the amendment and it became effective on January 10, 2008 (See Annex
10).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Preparation: Since the Mali GDLN project is similar to past GDLN operations in
other African countries, the project design took into account the lessons learned from
these operations. A series of consultations with other donors (UNDP, EU, DANIDA,
AFD and GTZ.) and human resources departments within key ministries were carried out
by the Task Team during the different phases of the project.

Use of PPF: A PPF of US$ 180,000 was used to fund various types of preparatory
activities, such as, contracting of the project management to an Agetip Agency,
including architecture and civil engineering consultancy services, the setting up of a
financial management system, the development of a manual of management procedures
and a manual of administrative and accounting procedures for the Center, a study visit to
Mauritania and Senegal for the architect and the project coordinator, and the operating
cost of the PCU. Project preparation, although adequate, lack of capacity on the
Government’ side affected project implementation as shown in the following sections.

Project Design: the PDOs as stated in the PAD were broad, ambitious and unrealistic,
which affected the implementation of the project. There is also some inconsistency
between the PDOs stated in the PAD and in the Credit Agreement and the same is true
for the performance indicators. The project team had difficulties translating these PDOs
into intermediate and concrete short-term outcomes.
    a) There is little evidence to suggest that a proper assessment was carried out to
        determine the readiness and capacity of the Government and the institutional
        environment to implement the project. The establishment and management of a
        GDLN center requires specific expertise in areas related to IT, distance education
        and marketing. Also, the PAD does not give any indication of how the expected
        outcomes could be integrated/ and or mainstreamed into policy reform processes.
    b) The majority of the performance indicators were unrealistic and broad. There
        were no short term, medium term and long term performance indicators. In
        addition, even though the indicators were quantitative, they were very difficult to
        measure and, most importantly, not appropriate to assess the overall impact of the
        project on capacity development and on institutional strengthening as stated in the
        overall objective of the project. Considering the weak institutional environment
        and limited human capacity both at the public and private sector levels,
        performance indicators should have been designed accordingly through a
        participatory process with clear responsibilities assigned. Critical assumptions
        made were general and do not reflect overall local challenges.
    c) Although it was a LIL, the project lacked an M&E framework, even though an
        M&E was proposed in component 3 of the project. Given that LILs are by nature

                                            4
      pilot projects to test new approaches, M&E is critical to assess the success of pilot
      projects and draw on lessons for future operations, including scaling up prospects.
      A few concrete objectives and indicators of success should have been defined so
      as to allow building a knowledge base for future similar operations. The ―one size
      fits all‖ approach should have been avoided. It is also questionable if a LIL is the
      right instrument for the establishment of GDLN centers.
   d) The project design was based on the model developed during the GDLN Program
      Pilot Phase (2000-2002). Although at the time of project appraisal, the successes
      and failures of ongoing GDLN projects were not yet known, the Task Team
      consulted operational GDLN center staff in Senegal and Mauritania for
      suggestions. These were included in the design of Components 1 and 2. However,
      more attention should have been given to local constraints and potential risks such
      as the lack of basic infrastructure for water, electricity and information technology
      in the project site.


2.2 Implementation

Several issues directly affected the Project implementation which resulted in a five-year
delay in implementation

       (i) Unrealistic implementation schedule. Failure to schedule sufficient time for
           start-up activities. The project implementation schedule was unrealistic; there
           was not enough set-up time between the construction of the center and the
           operation of the center. Also, the lack of existing basic infrastructure such as
           water and electricity at the project site was not taken into consideration in the
           implementation schedule.

       (ii) Unforeseen technical difficulties– There were unanticipated difficulties in the
            technology transition from the Information Solutions Group (ISG) to private
            connectivity service providers of GDLN Centers in Africa. There was a
            twenty four months delay in selection of a new operator after IDA’s ISG
            decided not to continue supporting GDLN centers in Africa, and transfer of
            services had to be made to the Association of African Distance Learning
            Centers (AADLC).

       (iii) Selection of staff, contractors and consultants - Changes in the institutional
            anchor and the coordination team resulting in high turnover. Political
            interference on the Government’s side resulted in a lack of transparency in
            selection of staff. The Local construction firm (AGETIP) selected for
            component 1- construction of the center was overloaded with too much work
            and was not able to comply with the agreed deadline. This resulted in
            completing the construction of center in sixteen months instead of the nine
            months envisioned during the project preparation. This aspect was not
            properly taken into account by the Task Team.



                                            5
             (iv) Non-compliance of procurement rules. Procurement administration issues
                 with UNDP Mali, which was contracted to procure technical equipment for
                 the DLC, also resulted in delays in operation of the center. It took 24 months
                 for IDA to reimburse UNDP which was contracted to procure the technical
                 equipment for the center due to non-compliance by UNDP of IDA
                 procurement rules.

             (v) Unexpected socio-political tension and the global economic crisis. The socio-
                 political tension in neighboring Cote d’Ivoire, and global economic crisis
                 resulted in cost overrun of construction materials of component 1 of the
                 project. During the Ivory Coast crisis most cargo transportation was almost
                 on halt affecting the cost of construction materials.

             (vi) Changes in institutional anchor of the GDLN program at the World Bank-
                  Caused disruptions and affected the quality of monitoring of project activities
                  and restructuring as required. The project was for several months managed by
                  a WBI Program Officer, as an acting TTL, rather than a staff from the Africa
                  region, where the project was hosted.

             (vii) Lack of Attention from the Task Team to support for Content
                 Development -There was no preparation in terms of developing content for
                 the use of the center and the groundwork required to mainstream distance
                 learning and knowledge sharing into the Bank’s operations in Mali.

      In addition to the above, project implementation was also affected by the Government’s
      lack of response and cumbersome administrative procedures due largely to limited
      capacity. (i) The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was moved from the Ministry of
      Finance (MoF) to the Ministry of Economics (MoE) where there was limited capacity to
      implement the project1; (ii) Project Preparation Financing (PPF) date was extended three
      times; (iii) the Grant Agreement was amended twice; (iv) and the project closing date was
      extended twice (See Table 1- Summary of Major Events that affected Project
      Implementation).

 I.       In October 12, 2004 the Government requested for an Extension of the refinancing date of the
          PPF from October 17, 2004 to January 17, 2005 (Government Letter ref: No. 03283/MEF-SG
          dated October 12, 2004). No records of approval date found in the IDA file.
II.       On June 22, 2004, the Government requested for the Second time an Extension of the
          refinancing date of the PPF from June 30, 2004 to October 17, 2004 (Government Letter ref:
          No. 01932/MEF-SG). According to the Government, several changes in the project
          coordination location slowed down the project preparation and the PPF set up.




      1
             The PCU was eventually disbanded and the DLC Director was appointed as project coordinator.




                                                           6
III.   On June 28, 2004, IDA approved for the Second time an Extension of the PPF from June 30,
       2004 to October 17, 2004. IDA’s rationale for approving the second extension of the PPF as
       indicated in the Memorandum dated June 28, 2004 are:

           ―Given the very tight implementation schedule, the set-up of an acceptable Financial
           Management System, the recruitment of an external auditor as well as other consultations
           necessary for the effectiveness of the Development Grant Agreement (DGA) has already
           started and will be completed within the next three months. We expect the DGA to
           become effective on October 17, 2004)‖.

IV.    On April 15, 2005, the Government requested for the third time an Extension of the
       refinancing date for the PPF and the project effective date from April 17, 2005 to July 18,
       2005 – (Government Letter Ref: No. 1287/MEF-SG). On April 25, 2005, IDA approved for
       the third time the extension date of the PPF and the effective date to July 18, 2005. The
       reasons indicated in the IDA memorandum dated April 19, 2005 for approving the
       Government’s request are:

          i.   The project Coordination Unit was relocated from the Ministry of Economy and
               Finance to the Direction of Debt and Investment. At this new location, the Project
               Coordination Unit did not have sufficient resources to meet the project preparation
               deadlines.
         ii.   Three months into implementation, the Ministry of Economy and Finance decided to
               appoint a new Project Coordinator. The capacity of this new Team was unfortunately
               weak and the process of selection of the auditor and the consultant for the Manual of
               Procedure had to be redone.

V.     On September 14, 2007, the Government requested for a reallocation of the project funds
       (Government Letter ref. No. 0906/MEF-SG) due to a cost escalation, due to a force
       majeure—the Cote d’Ivoire crisis and the exchange rate depreciation) . According to the
       Government, the reallocation was needed for Category 1 (Civil Works), 3 (Consultant
       Services) and 6 (Refinancing of PPF). Accordingly, ―the continuous socio-political tensions
       in the neighboring Cote d’Ivoire as well as the fall of the dollar exchange rate against the
       Euro (and thus the FCFA) had significantly increased the cost of construction. Therefore, the
       initial allocation on category 1 as assessed during the project appraisal was not sufficient to
       cover the funding of component 1 activities‖.
VI.    IDA approved the reallocation of the project funds in a letter dated October 29, 2007 based
       on the following reasons as per IDA’s Memorandum of November 13, 2007):

          i.   The project will benefit from the experience of the other GDLN Centers in Sub-
               Saharan Africa;
         ii.   The project is expected to generate rapidly more revenues than planned during the
               appraisal therefore, consulting services may not cost as much as expected;
        iii.   The Government’s request is to reallocate funds from Category 3 (Consultant
               Services) and the undisbursed amount from Category 6 (Refinancing of PPF) to
               finance the additional construction costs.




                                                   7
VII.              On September 20, 20072 - the Government requested for an Amendment of the Development
                  Grant Agreement (DGA H090-MLI) in the Government Letter No. Ref: 301/MEIC-SG. IDA
                  approved the Government request to amend the DGA on December 14, 2007 and amended
                  the DGA. The Government signed on the above amendment and it became effective on
                  January 10, 2008 (See Annex 10).
VIII.             On February 10, 2009, the Government requested for a first extension of the project/Grant
                  closing date for 36 months (Government Letter Ref: No.535/MEIC-S.G). The main issues
                  raised in the IDA Memorandum dated April 13, 2009 to approve the Government’s request
                  for extension of the closing date are: ―The project is facing a major implementation delay.
                  This delay is due to several factors including:

                     i.      The high standards set for construction of the Center. The GDLN technical standards
                             are particularly complex and uncommon in Mali. But these demanding technical
                             requirements are necessary to ensure the best quality of the GDLN service delivery
                             linked to content from throughout the world;
                    ii.      The Mali Development Learning Center project was initially anchored in the
                             Ministry of Finance. Further to the governmental reshuffle that took place in April
                             2008, it was decided to move the project to the Ministry of Economics and Trade. A
                             new project coordinator was appointed by the Minister of Economics late August
                             2008. This change delayed the project execution;
                   iii.      The technology transition that is being implemented to give the GDLN its full and
                             necessary autonomy also slowed down the project execution; and
                   iv.       The actual cost of construction far exceeded the provisions in the PAD. This is due
                             to external factors such as the global economic crisis during the period 2008 – 2010.

        On June 25, 2009 the request for extension of the closing date was approved for 23months from
        July 1, 2009 to May 31, 2011. (Please insert the dates; they are missing). IDA’s rationales for
        approving the extension of the closing date as per the Memorandum dated June 23, 2009 are:

              i.         Given the current status of the project implementation, an early closing of the project
                         would result in the immediate closing of the Center and would leave the Government
                         with a building designed for GDLN and non-operational.
             ii.         The last ISR (November 2008) rates the IP MS and PDO MU, indicating that both will be
                         upgraded to MS if the implementation remains on track.
            iii.         The recent update on the implementation progress shows that the positive trend
                         mentioned in the last ISR is confirmed and thus both PDO and IP rating can be upgraded
                         to MS.
            iv.          The attached Action Plan aims to bring the performance of the DLC operations to a
                         satisfactory level (based on our experience in other AFR countries) by June 30, 2010
             v.           Given the importance of capacity-building aspects in the current CAS, an extension of
                         the project closing date will give the project sufficient time to benefit from the capacity
                         enhancement focus in Mali and thus rapidly improve its performance‖.




        2
                Dates don’t seem to match events of reallocation of funds on October 29, 07 and the request for Amendment
        of DGA on September 29, 07


                                                                 8
Table: 1- Summary of Major Events that affected Project Implementation
Date                 Major Issue                                         IDA Action/date
                     Institutional– Issues PPF Extension
October 12, 2004     First Government request for the extension of       Not available
                     refinancing date of the Project Preparation
                     Facility from October 2004 to January 17, 2005
                     (Government Letter Ref: No.03283/MEF-SG)
June 22, 2004        Government requested for the second time            Approved June 28,
                     extension of refinancing date of the Project        2004
                     Preparation Facility (PPF) from June 30, 2004 to
                     October 17, 2004. (Government Letter Ref: No.
                     01932/MEF-SG)
April 15, 2005,      Government requested for the third time an          IDA approved the
                     Extension of the refinancing date for the Project   third on April 25,
                     Preparation Facility (PPF) and the Effectiveness    2005
                     Date (ED) from April 17, 2005 to July 18, 2005
                     – (Government Letter Ref: No. 1287/MEF-SG).
                     Reallocation of funds
September 14, 2007 Government requested for a reallocation of the        Reallocation was
                     project funds (Government Letter ref. No.           approved on October
                     0906/MEF-SG)                                        29, 2007
                     DGA Amendment
September 20, 2007 Government requested for an Amendment of the          IDA approved the
                     Development Grant Agreement (DGA H090-              amendment on
                     MLI) in the Government Letter No. Ref:              December 14, 2007.
                     301/MEIC-SG.
                     Contract with AGETIP – Component 1 –
                     construction of the center
2008                 Procurement Contract with UNDP – for
                     Procurement of technical equipment delayed for
                     24 months.
 February 10, 2009,  Government requested for a First Extension of       IDA Extended the
                     the project closing date for 36 months              closing date by 23
                     (Government Letter dated February 10, 2009)).       months, from July 1,
                                                                         2009 to March 31,
                                                                         2011 in IDA letter to
                                                                         the Government dated
                                                                         June 25, 2009
                      Re-assignment of the project to AFRCP at the
                      closing of the project
November 2, 2011      A request was made by the Capacity                 The delivery date was
                      Development Unit of AFR to extend the              approved and
                      submission date of the Implementation              extended from
                      Completion Report (ICR) due to the new             November 30, 2011
                      procedure for submission of ICRs.                  to March 2012.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

During the construction phase of the center (2004-2009), the project did not have an
M&E expert. As mentioned above, the project design includes M&E - component 3 of

                                             9
the project: which aimed at setting up a Monitoring and Evaluation system that will
assess the impact of the Project (Par. 1.5). Due to the aforementioned delays, analyzing
the outcome indicators did not take effect until 2010. Had an M&E been set-up, at the
beginning, when the project was launched, monitoring and evaluating the construction of
the center and the procurement of the technical equipment issues mentioned above,
would have provided information and important lessons for this LIL project.

In 2010, when the center became operational, the DLC designed a basic M&E tool, using
an Excel program for compiling basic data of activities in DLC. The ICR Team’s
evaluation of this database revealed that the database was just a list of items without any
system for monitoring and evaluating of the DLC operations. The ICR Team concluded
that, there was no M&E in place at DLC at the close of the project in 2011.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project is rated category C and no safeguard policy was triggered. CFD Mali is
located in a small building located in a developing urban area called ACI 2000 which is
expected to host most of the new government buildings and a number of high level
training institutions.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

For future operations, according to the Government, it would like to partner with
international organizations and other institutions in the country in order to promote the
use of CFD facilities. Such partnership would also help to make progress towards the
MDGs. The Government also requested assistance from IDA to build a multimedia hall
for face-to-face training in CFD.

For the moment, IDA has no immediate plan or a Road Map on how to use CFD facilities.
However, the ICR team feels it is important for IDA to step in and help the Government
recruit a trainer to train the current CFD staff on how to run the center, and also help in
establishing an M&E system


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

In 1999, the Global Development Learning Network (GDLN) was established as a
technology and connectivity provider for training and capacity building of development
practitioners. With the development of technological and connectivity capacity, the
GDLN’s comparative advantage now lies in the international expertise developed across
the network, the convening power of the GDLN affiliates worldwide, the design and
delivery of learning events, the dissemination of good practices in development topics
and the facilitation of South-South knowledge exchanges among peers.



                                            10
Although the PDOs as defined in the PAD were vague and too ambitious, DLC is
relevant today as it was when the project was launched in 2004. The Mali Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) during project preparation and the current CAS (Report No.
41745-ML)3 include explicit reference to ―increase connection to the world through ICT
and telecommunication; build capacity of local administration and support community
development to address rural-urban migration.? As mentioned above (par.2.1), project
design would have greatly benefited from a more realistic assessment of existing
infrastructure at the project site; local institutional and human capacities; an M&E
framework; and stronger ownership by local stakeholders.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives4

Despite five years delays (par.2.2), the DLC has achieved some of the Project’s
Development Objectives. During the period (2010-2011), when the center became
operational, CFD Mali offered 40 video based learning conferences and face-to-face
training courses to local officials from both public and private sectors. These capacity
building programs, addressed development issues such as: Human Resources and
Organizational Management; Budget Management; Development and Leadership
Training; Social & Cultural Economics; Procurement and Corruption Auditing; Public
Administration; Project Management and etc. (See Annex 10, Table 2 for a more detail
list of courses offered).

Also, learning events reached over 1,320 participants in the form of structured training
programs, action learning activities, South-South knowledge exchanges or regional
policy dialogues. Of these participants, 28 percent and 18 percent were female during the
periods 2010 and 2011 respectively, an achievement not envisioned during project
preparation and not targeted in the outcome indicators or in the PAD (See Table 3 below).


Table: 2– CFD Mali Learning Events 2010 to 2011 – Participants per sector
                                       Public Sector               Private Sector
Year      Number of Participants Number           %          Number       %
2010                        334            298         89            36                              11
2011                        987            888         90            99                              10
Total                      1321           1186         90          135                               10
Sources: Government. *Note: There are inconsistencies in the DLC data.
 See Annex 7 Government report

Table: 3 Participants in CFD Learning Events by Gender
Year      Total Number of participants    Male                                        Female



3
          Report Number 41745-ML

4
          It should be noted that, at close of project, CFD does not have an M&E Expert and there is no database on its
operations. There are inconsistencies in CFD data that was submitted for the preparation of this ICR. Due to these
inconsistencies, the ICR team feels it is inappropriate to do a quantitative analysis of the project output. Therefore, all
figures and numbers in this report should be treated with caution.


                                                            11
                                         Number         %             Number %
2010     334                             242            72            92          28
2011     987                             806            82            181         18
Total    1321                            1048           79            273         21
Source: Government. Note: There are discrepancies in Government data due to lack of M&E in the CFD
(See Annex 7 Government report).

To a certain extent, the project has also strengthened Public-Private Partnership through
learning events that convened representatives from both the public and private sectors,
while simultaneously contributing to the popularization of information technology and
Internet-based learning in the country. In addition, the learning events also generated
income for the center in the form of user fees which, at the close of the project covered
over 60 percent of the operating costs (See Annex 2, Table 2). Staff salaries were also
derived from the CFD’s user fees indicating sustainability of the center. Finally, above
all, one of the major benefits of CFD in addition to capacity building, is that the center’s
operations generate employment and income - offering jobs to local and regional
professionals.


3.3 Efficiency

The DLC is cost-effective. According to the Government, the above courses (Par. 3.2), if
translated into training abroad or imports of international trainers, would have cost the
Government from US$6,051 to US$18,155 5 per head, in tuition alone, for a week’s
training per a course. A similar training in the CFD Mali is only $889 per head. This cost
saving is one of the major objectives of the CFD Mali. Also since most of the learning
events offered by CFD are usually shared by at least three other centers in Francophone
Africa (Burkina Faso, Cote d’Ivoire and Senegal), the savings in cost of training in CFD
would be significantly lower for the Government as the center becomes popular in the
country and attendance increases.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Despite being cost effective, the CFD’s PDOs are vague and unrealistic (2.1). They
should have been better focused, less ambitious and defined more measurable indicators
in the PAD. There was limited attention paid to the engagement of local stakeholders
(learning/knowledge institutions) beyond the government, leading to limited
sustainability and impact. However, the spirit of these PDOs is still relevant given the
need for efficient capacity-building tools in Mali. Although the DLC is cost effective
(Par. 3.3), the achievement of the PDOs is rated unsatisfactory for the reasons described



5
        Government estimated cost for external training, from US$6,051 to US$18,155


                                                12
in Section 2.3 – lack of M&E; and project output by components – mixed results (Annex
2).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Although gender aspects were not indicated in the outcome indicators in the PAD, female
participation in the learning process in CFD was 21 percent compared to 79 percent for
male participants during the periods 2010 and 2011(See Table 3 below). The gender
balance in the learning events is low with respect to the professional environment in Mali,
where the female labor force represents around 45 percent of the total labor force. On the
other hand, the center has been operational for only two years and it is likely that female
participation will increase in the coming years.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
After the project became effective in July 15, 2005, CFD was moved from the Ministry
of Finance to the Ministry of Economics following the Government’s reshuffle within the
ministries.     The reason for moving CFD was to provide the project with a more
appropriate institutional anchor. Also, as detailed in the PAD, the success of the project
would rely: (i) upon building the institutional capacity of the DLC to establish an
effective, efficient, relevant, and sustainable center which would impact on building
capacity; (ii) on sorting out the institutional challenges for the project include building
the capacity of project management, establishing practical means with Government to
support implementation of the public service training strategy, establishing an effective
and well represented Board (consisting of private sector, government and civil society
representatives).

On building the institutional capacity of the DLC, only 50 percent of DLC staffing
positions were filled at the close of the project (see Annex 2, Table 2). The positions of
M&E, Training Coordinator, Sales and Marketing Specialist, and Financial
specialist/accountant positions were vacant. Also, there was no evidence suggesting that
DLC staff received training on how to run the center (Par. See Annex 2). Therefore, as of
the date of this ICR, the capacity at the DLC is not up to the standard of IDA’s
requirements at such centers (See Annex 10, IDA’s TOR for DLC suggested to
Government).

On the other hand, the face-to-face and video training sessions mentioned in Section 3.2
on the capacity building programs of: Human Resources and Organizational
Management; Budget Management; Development and Leadership Training; Social &
Cultural Economics; Procurement and Corruption Auditing; Public Administration and
Project Management offered by CFD to the public and the private sectors, NGOs and the
civil society, this has somewhat developed and enhanced the capacity of those who
participated in the training programs at the institutional level. Although this
achievement is not significant at this point in time, since it was only two years when the
DLC became operational, the project has made a change by developing a new concept for
staff training at lower costs; and has also strengthened the capacity of the institutions of
those who participated in the DLC training programs.


                                            13
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
As mentioned above, gender participation was not an objective of the project. However,
in its two years of operation, female participation increased from 82 in 2010 to 181 in
2011 (Par. 3.5 (a)) Also, promoting face-to-face training was not an objective of the
project. Nevertheless, in addition to the typical GDLN event involving using distance
learning tools, the CFD offered about twenty five face-to-face learning events during the
period 2010 - 2011 – (Par. 3.2). Furthermore, the center’s facilities are also used for
exchange of fora, teleconferences, meetings and conferences by various institutions
across the country.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Due to the project delays, beneficiary survey was not conducted. However, according to
the Government feedback, participants expressed a high rate of satisfaction in the use of
the CFD. Also, according to the Government, responses to a few questionnaires
completed by the participants registered outcomes that are highly satisfactory. The ICR
team, however, did not conduct a field visit to verify this rating.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High
The lack of capacity, political interferences in staff appointments, reshuffling within the
ministries, frequent re-assignment of decision markers, and lack of salary incentives (low
salary) for qualified professionals may jeopardize the sustainability of the project over the
coming years. In addition to this, lack of Government budgetary contribution to
supplement the center’s operations, hiring of qualified personnel such as, a Sale and
Marketing Expert and an M&E Expert, and a Training coordinator would jeopardize the
sustainability of the center. Although, the center generates income from participants
training, and renting out of the conference rooms, there is no financial data6 to assess the
profit and loss of the center. In summary, the Mali DLC has not yet put in place proper
management procedures.

At the close of the project, CFD did not have: (i) an established database system; (ii) an
M&E expert; (iii) Financial Expert/Accountant; (v) a Training Coordinator; and (iv) a
bilingual staff as per the requirement for DLCs. Unless the above positions are filled, the
sustainability of the center is unlikely. Therefore the Risk to Development Outcomes is
rated high.




6
       There are no reliable financial database in the CFD


                                             14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory
The Bank’s lending performance is unsatisfactory. The choice of a LIL as the funding
instrument for this operation allowed to fast-track its implementation but the design of
the project should have paid more attention to the institutional context and realities. The
assumptions on the prospects of a GDLN center were mostly based on lessons learned in
countries with a more favorable basic infrastructure in their project sites and a moderate
technical and professional capacity. In addition, the construction of a new center was
carried out without a proper assessment of existing learning institutions and the options
of upgrading their facilities to allow for the use of ―blended learning tools‖.

Also, as noted in Par.2.2, the project had serious challenges from the beginning: (i) the
extension of the PPF closing date three times due to re-assignment of the project
coordination unit to another ministry; and (ii) the lack of the required capacity to
implement the project in the new ministry. It seems IDA did not do enough ground work
before launching the project. In addition to design flaws, mentioned in par.2.1, there are
irregularities in the project’s internal filing system (See Par. 2.2; Table 1, and Footnotes).
There were no supporting documents to support some of the important events during
project implementation in the project files.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
 The Bank’s supervision is moderately satisfactory. The supervision team maintained a
constant contact with the project and also organized regular missions with a detailed
report after each mission. These reports show that the team made strong
recommendations to address aspects that were critical to the success of the project (Par.
2.1, Table 1): (i) extension of PPF refinancing date and the project effective date; (ii)
reallocation of project funds; and (iii) amendment of the Grant Agreement. On several
occasions, the team took the initiative of setting up meetings between the CFEM and
other development partners such as the UNDP, AFD, DANIDA, GTZ, EU, and IMF.
However, the team failed to take a drastic action to suspend the project when it realized:
(i) lack of Government ownership; (ii) lack of capacity in the new ministry to implement
the project; and (iii) political interference on the Government part in staff selection to run
the center.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Because the supervision aide memoires, implementation status reports (ISRs) and back-
to-office reports did not recommend to management to suspend the project; in addition to
the major events as indicated in Table 1 above, the overall Bank Performance is rated
moderately unsatisfactory. See Annex 2 for additional justification for the overall rating
of the project.


                                              15
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory
The Government performance is rated unsatisfactory. The Government of Mali had
requested a Grant from IDA in the amount of US$2.50 million for its new concept for
DLC in order to access and deliver training courses that would support capacity
development efforts for the civil service for implementation of reforms such as health,
local government, legal, education, procurement, accounting, service delivery,
restructuring, budgeting or performance management. At project appraisal, the
contribution from the Government amounted to US$0.25 million in addition to office
space and staff salaries during the construction phase of the project; and local sources of
funds amounted to US$0.75 million making the estimated total funding of the project
US$3.50 million. The Government did not follow in IDA’s rules and regulations on
selection of staff. For these reasons and others indicated above, the Governments’
performance is rated unsatisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The Ministry of Economics (MoE) is the implementation agency for the CFD. As
mentioned in Par. 2.2, MoE did not have the technical know-how and capacity to
implement the project which resulted in delays and other issues as raised above.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

At the end of the project’s implementation, the lack of capacity on the Government’s part
seriously affected project outcomes. In all, only component 1 – construction of the DLC
was fully implemented but with delays. Component 2 - support DLC to: (i) strengthen its
human, financial, operational management and business planning capabilities and (ii) to
developed, marketing, sourcing and scheduling of its training programs, through the
provision of technical advisory services and training, was partially implemented –
through the training programs offered by CFD. Component 3 to set-up monitoring and
evaluation system was not implemented. Therefore, the overall borrower performance is
rated unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The lessons learned from the project can be divided into the following: (A) Project design
(B) Implementation history; and (C) lessons from both the Government and Bank’s
performance.

   A. Project design

First, on the design front, the first lesson learned is that design of a DLC or GDLN center
is context specific. Rushing in to judgment that if it works for some countries in the
region it should also work in Mali, is not an appropriate strategy to launch a new

                                            16
innovative project. The designed team should have studied the Malian context more to
determine if such an intervention will work adequately.

Secondly, another lesson learned is that the design team should be technically strong. For
this particular project, there were no technical experts with the know-how required to
participate with the Bank team during the design phase of the project (or there were not
identified by the project team). For this reason, it seems, the Government of Mali, (GOM)
put all its trust on the Bank team to design the project. A more careful assessment on the
conditions on the ground should have been carried out and considered during the design
phase of the project. The DLC is a new concept and a complex project for the country to
undertake.

Thirdly, a lesson learned in design is to gauge government readiness before embarking on
such a project. The government of Mali was not technically ready for DLC. A possible
solution would have been the involvement of a private operator or a Public Private
Partnership. The Bank team should have considered a simpler but at the same time useful
equipment to allow institutions in Mali to access distance learning, rather than a loan
simply to construct infrastructure without a proper assessment of the real need for it.
Supporting existing training institutions to upgrade their capacity to access information
and participate in knowledge sharing would have provided greater impact.

   B. Implementation History - IDA

Fourthly, a lesson learned is that there should be an adequate M&E in place for such
projects and Bank task management should be more hands-on in providing direction and
solutions on implementation bottlenecks... Despite awareness among Bank task
management of the Government’s capacity to implement such a complex project, there
was no continuous evaluation of the project during implementation. For instance, the
project team did a good job, by noting and seeking management approval seven times
(par.2.2, Table 1) to revert or change the course of the project implementation. But task
management did not take action to advise the team. It seems the project team was left to
take its course of action.

              a) Recommendations and Suggestions. Management could have assigned
                 ISG expert to be based in the country office to work with the
                 Government in implementing the project.

              b) For sustainability purposes of the project, technical Assistances could
                 have been assigned to CFD to work with the Government to bring
                 operations of the center to an acceptable standard.

              c) For future projects, well designed capacity development indicators and
                 the setting up of M&E systems could be included as conditions for
                 approving new projects.




                                           17
   C. Implementation History - Government

Fifthly, a lesson learned is that the Bank should not agree to proceeding with a project for
which government readiness and capacity to implement was gauged as weak. The
Government of Mali took on a project that it was not technically prepared to manage.
Even during implementation, there was limited engagement from the government side in
terms of measuring implementation of the project as well as overall impact.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies: None

(b) Co-financiers. UNDP contributed the equivalent of US$200,000 in financing of: study
tours to other DLCs in the region, training, workshops, conferences and salaries of CFD
staffs. UNDP also recruited a Technical Expert from Canada during the first two years
into project implementation as a Director of the CFD. However, according to UNDP and
the Government, the director left just after one year due to a salary dispute with the
Government.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                         Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (XDR
                                  (XDR millions)                            Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 DLC FACILITIES                          1.02               1.78                173
 SUPPORT TO DLC'S
                                         1.22               0.67                 55
OPERATIONS
 MONITORING, EVALUATION
AND AUDIT OF PROJECT                     0.14               0.0                 0.0
ACTIVITIES
            Total Baseline Cost          2.38               2.45                229

The total amount of the project was estimated at $3.5 million during Appraisal. This
included $2.5 million from the IDA Grant, and $1 million from revenues that the DLC
was expected to generate during its four years of operations, and also from counterpart
funding on some contracts. Unfortunately, due to the late implementation of the project
and other factors, the DLC could not generate as much revenues as expected. So, looking
at the disbursement tables in other implementation documents, and converting everything
into XDR, using the rate as of January 2004 in the first column (US$ 1.471), and the rate




                                            18
as of today7 in the second column (US$ 1.531), we can establish that the project has
disbursed around XDR 1.28 million from the IDA Grant and received XDR 0.491 million
from the national counterpart funds for Component 1 (DLC Facilities). This makes a total
of XDR 1.771 million for Component 1, equivalent to 173% of the amount at Appraisal.
For component 2, the project benefitted from the IDA Grant (XDR 0.384 million),
counterpart funding (XDR 0.025 million), UNDP funding (XDR 0.13 million), and
generated revenues (XDR 0.135 million). This makes a total of XDR 0.674 million for
Component 2, equivalent to 55% of the Appraisal estimate.

So overall, the total amount of the project at appraisal was estimated to XDR 2.38 million,
and the total amount actually spent on the project by all sources of funding is equivalent
to XDR 2.445 million. We notice that Component 1 cost much more than appraised for
the reasons described in the ICR. Component 2 benefitted from many sources of
financing but failed to generate the expected revenues, mainly because of time constraints.
Component 3 was not implemented as indicated below in annex 2.

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Projected Output Indicators vs. Actual Output (See Table 4 below): Due to the delays as
indicated in par.2.2, the key performance indicators in measuring the project outcome did
not take effect until 2010 when DLC became operational.                According to the
Government’s report, between the periods 2010 and 2011, DLC trained about 1,180
people in both the public and the private sectors in over 30 training courses and VC’s.
The ICR team requested confirmation and further clarification on this date, but to date,
the team has not receive a replay from the DLC management. The private sector, Non–
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and civil society accessing the center grew by 11
percent from 2010 to 2011. The number of people using (utilization rate) DLC also grew
from 65 percent to 113 percent from 2010 to 2011. In line with the above, cost recovery,
the percentage of the operating costs that is covered by user fees, grew from 6 to 52
percent from 2010 to 2011 (See Table 3 below).

Analyzing the Output Indicators: The market study that was conducted during project
preparation projected the following in the PAD:

      A. The number of civil servants needing training in the center will increase by about
         50 percent from the first year into the fourth year when the center becomes fully
         operational.

                 At the close of the project, the actual number of civil servants that were
                  trained in both video conference and face-to-face increased from 298 in
                  2010 to 888 8 in 2011, an increase over 200 percent (See Graph A).


7
          April 10, 2012.
8
    The ICR team is waiting for further details on this data.

                                               19
                 Therefore, it is likely that in 2012 and beyond, civil servants, trained in the
                 center will increase.


    B. The number of private sector, NGOs or civil society participants would increase
       five percent annually.

                At the close of the project, the private sector, NGO and civil society
                 participants increased by ten percent from 2010 to 2011 (See graph B).

    C. The number and type of training courses offered by DLC that would correspond
       to the identified needs of the market study, the national training strategy and the
       project, would increase two percent annually.

                At the close of the project, however, the percentage increase was from 17
                 to 29 percent from 2010 – 2011. An increase of over 100 percent (See
                 Graph C).

    D. Cost recovery, the percentage of operating costs that would be covered by user
       fees will increase 20 percent annually to 100 percent at the close of the project in
       2009.

                At the close of the project in 2011, DLC operating costs that were covered
                 by user fees increased from 6 to 52 percent from 2010 to 2011, an
                 indication that in the near future, user fees could cover operational costs
                 making the center financially viable (See Graph D).

    E. DLC utilization rate, the percentage of customers’ that would be attracted to the
       center would increase to 62 at the close of the project in 2009.9

                At the close of the project, the utilization rate increased from 65 to 113
                 percent from 2010 to 2011, a 100 percent more than the initial estimate
                 (See Graph E).

Output by Project Components: Output by project components are presented below:

Component 1 – Construction and equipment of the Distance Learning Center

This component is rated marginally unsatisfactory

The construction is of high quality and the equipment is perfectly adequate to carry out
the mission of DLC. The design of the building benefited from the experience of other


9
       2009 was the original closing date of the project


                                                       20
GDLN centers and took into account the lessons learned from the DLCs in Mauritania
and Senegal.

However, the global economic crisis resulted in a cost over-run of over 102 percent for
Civil Works; and over 126 percent for equipment as shown below in Table 1. In addition,
as mentioned before, the delivery of this component was delayed by: (i) 24 months, due
to the technology transfer from ISG to GDLN in Africa; (ii) 6 months, AGETIP in
completing the construction of center; and (iii) 12 months, procurement misappropriation
between UNDP and IDA (Section 2.2).

Table: 1 – Category of expenditure
Category   Designation               Amount Allocated      Amount Disbursed          %
                                          (SDR)                 (SDR)
1          Works                                560,000            571,447.94    102.04
2          Equipment                            490,000            621,537.07    126.84
3          Audit & Consultants                  310,000              95,559.63    30.83
4          Training and Travel                    70,000             77,320.98   110.46
5A         Operating cost 1st year                70,000           217,410.08    310.59
5B         Operating cost 2nd year                70,000             90,356.97   129.08
5C         Operating cost 3rd year                70,000                     -      0.0
5D         Operating cost 4th year                30,000                     -      0.0
6          PPF                                       500                212.18    42.44
7          Unallocated                            29,500                     -      0.0
           Total



Component 2 – Support for Distance Learning Center

This component is rated Unsatisfactory

The component was partially implementated. The only achievement under this
component is, Distance Learning Center (CFD) was established as a Mali public body
with a scientific vocation (Etablissement Public à Caractère Scientifique - EPST)
overseen by the Ministry of Economics. It is a legal entity governed by a Board
comprising representatives from the Government, academic institutions, private sectors
and civil society.

At the close of the project in May 31, 2011, CFD operations covered only 52 percent of
its operating costs, less than the projection in the PAD of 100 percent on the original
closing date of June 30, 2009. However, the utilization rate was 113 percent, more than
the projection in the PAD of 62 percent at the original closing date on June 30, 2009 (See
Graphs B and E below).

CFD operating cost from 2005 – 2010 are presented below. In 2010 – 2011, average
user fee was about US$ 105.00; other services such as renting of space and etc. amounted
to US$2185.00. According to the Director, the average monthly use of CFD by a typical
mid-level professional or a student in 2010-2011 was 23 hours per month; and during the
same period, user fees covered 6 percent and 52 percent of the operating costs.

                                            21
Table: 2- Operating Cost 2005 - 2010
                               2005          2006         2007            2008          2009          2010           2011
Operating cost                                                                                                35,613,660
Renting & Maintenance
of SAT/special
connection
Center staff               2,668,000     7,196,000    7,104,000       7,334,540    1,6243,590    42,328,188    19,844,384
Office equipment,                        2,286,000    4,002,000      16,583,600    27,631,794    31,001,209    12,289,113
cleaning, maintenance
and insurance
Fuel and lubricant                       3,198,000    2,527,500       2,577,000     4,065,000     5,486,800     6,352,060
Water and electricity                                                                                           7,503,964
Other variables
Telephone and internet      881,898      1,187,559    2,063,820       2,232,560     1,730,260     3,842,680      939,000
fees
Miscellaneous              1,653,879    17,592,628    4,784,588       5,121,019    14,557,364    29,362,065    43,305,658
expenditure, travel and
unforeseen expenses
Investments
Consulting and training     6,240,00    22,320,227   34,916,494       1,401,540    13,598,569    49,477,999    19,053,341
services
Construction and          70,130,000   135,730,586   42,395,928      82,596,298    25,500,000    26,472,500    31,941,712
equipment
Grand total               81,773,777   189,511,000   97,794,330     117,846,550   103,326,577   187,971,440   176,842,892
Turnover                  0            0             0              0             0             12,159,300    91,611,825
Source: Government date – *Note: there are inconsistencies in the government data, the figures don’t add up.

DLC is staffed by: Managing Director; Financial and Administrative Officer; Information
Technology Specialist (IT), and Executive Assistant (See Table below). At the close of
the project, there were no Financial Specialist/Accountant, Monitoring and Evaluation
Expert (M&E) and a Training Coordinator in DLC. Also, there was no evidence
suggesting staff appointments and/or qualifications followed IDA’s Terms of Reference
rules and regulations for a DLC.

Table: 3 - DLC Staff list
Position                                             Status Qualification
Managing Director *10                                Filled       Diplôme de l’ENSUP (Math), DEA en
                                                                  Informatique (Intélligence Artificielle), DEA en
                                                                  gestion
Financial and Administrative Officer                 Filled       Maitrise en gestion
Information Technology Specialist (IT)               Filled       Ingénieur Informaticien
Financial Specialist/Accountant                      Vacant
Monitoring and Evaluation Expert                     Vacant
Training Coordinator                                 Vacant
Source: Government – Director of CFD.


Component 3 – Monitoring and Evaluation of the Distance Learning Center
This component was not implemented. At the close of the project, there was no M&E
expert in the DLC. The lack of implementation of this component affected the overall
outcome of the project. This component is rated highly unsatisfactory.




                                                          22
Table: 4– Projected Outcome vs. Actual Outcome Indicators
Indicator                        Year1     Year 2 Year 3                          Year 4 Year 5 Year 6

                                           2006         2007        2008          2009     2010     2011
   1. Number of Civil Servants
       Trained both Video
       Conference and Face-to-
       Face
Projected value                                 800         1500           3000    4500      n.p.     n.p.
Actual value                                      0            0              0       0      298      888

Number of Private, NGO, Civil                                                                 36       99
Society Trained
Projected value
Actual value                                                                                  36       99
   2. Number of Private
       Sector, NGO or civil
       society participants
Projected Value                                 5%          10%            15%     20%      25%       n.p.
Actual Value                                    0%           0%             0%      0%      11%      10%

   3. Number and type of
       training courses offered
       by DLC that correspond
       to the identified needs of
       the market study, the
       national training strategy
       and projects for both
       video and face to face
Projected Value                                   10           12           14       16       18      n.p.
Actual Value                                                                                  17       29

   4. Cost recovery at least
       X% of the operating costs
Projected Value                                 20%         40%            60%     80%     100%       n.p.
Actual Value                                                                                 6%      52%

   5. Total utilization rate from
       2010 - 2011 both video
       conference, face to face
Projected Value                                 20%         45%            62%      n.p.     n.p.     n.p.
Actual Value                                                                                65%     113%
n.p = Not projected. Source: Government’s DLC



                                                       23
24
                         Graph: C
      Number of Training Courses offered by DLC that
      correspond to Idenfied needs of the Mket Study
35

30

25

20

15
                                                               Projected
10                                                             Actual

5

0
     Yr.     Yr. 2       Yr,3       Yr. 4       Yr.5   Yr. 6
              Year 06 to 09 was construction period
                   Project output begain 2010




                                      25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
According to the PAD, the project was expected to demonstrate an economically viable
method of delivering training as compared to the current and expensive practice of
sending officials abroad for specialized training or the import of international trainers. In
addition, more people are expected to gain access to training in a wider variety of fields
leading to a more effective use of government funds.

As shown above (par.3.3), CFD is cost-effective. According to the government, the cost
of sending officials abroad or imports of international trainers would have cost the
Government an equivalent of US$6,051 to US$18,155per head. A similar training in
CFD is only $889 per head11. Also, since most of the learning events offered by CFD are
usually shared by at least three other centers in Francophone Africa (Burkina Faso, Cote
d’Ivoire and Senegal), the savings in cost of training in CFD is much higher for the
Government. In addition, as the center becomes popular in the country, it is likely that
attendance will increase resulting in cost saving for the Government for staff training and
capacity enhancement.




11
       Figures based on Government calculation.


                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Rosemary M. Cubagee        Consultant, ICR Primary Author   AFRCP
Nestor Coffi               Country Manager                  AFMNE
Zie Ibrahima Coulibaly     Senior Infrastructure Speciali   AFTUW
Mahine Diop                Senior Municipal Engineer        AFTUW
Maimouna Mbow Fam          Sr Financial Management Specia   AFTFM
Moustapha Ould El Bechir   Senior Procurement Specialist    AFTPC
Laurent Porte              Program Officer                  WBIKE
Rokhayatou Sarr Samb       Procurement Specialist           AFTPC
Aoua Toure Sow             Program Assistant                AFCW3
Cheick Traore              Senior Procurement Specialist    AFTPC

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                           3                      11.49
                           Total:                3                      11.49

Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                           7                      29.87
  FY06                                           7                      30.37
  FY07                                           7                      33.05
  FY08                                           7                      31.44
  FY11                                                                   5.00
  FY12                                          7                       30.00
                           Total:              37                      159.73

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Beneficiary survey was not conducted

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Stakeholder workshop was not held




                                          27
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Below is the Government’s evaluation report of the project. A translated English version
is in the project files.


                 PROJET DE CENTRE DE FORMATION
                 POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT DU MALI
                              (CFD)

               N° du DON : MLI H0900 du 17 juin 2004




        RAPPORT D’ACHEVEMENT
                                   Décembre 2011

Centre de Formation pour
Le Développement (CFD)
Mali


                                   FICHE PROJET



1. Intitulé du projet : Centre de Formation pour le Développement (CFD) Mali.
                       N° du crédit : MLI H 0900 du 24 juin 2004 ;
                       N° d’identification du projet : P082187

2. Ministère de tutelle : Ministère chargé de l’Economie ;

3. Organigramme




                                           28
                                   DIRECTEUR




                Assistant de
                 Direction




            Coordinateur de     Responsable IT          Responsable
             la Formation                              Admin et Finan.

                                                                         Comptable
                                                                          Publique


              Chauffeur1          Chauffeur2            Coursier




4. Montant du projet : Le Gouvernement du Mali a bénéficié auprès de la banque
mondiale d’un Don pour la création d’un Centre de Formation à Distance afin d’aider le
pays dans sa politique de renforcement des capacités. C’est ainsi qu’un accord de Don
pour un montant de 1.700.000 DTS (Droit de Tirages Spéciaux) (soit 2 500 000 $ US) a
été signé par l’Ambassadeur de la république du Mali auprès des Etats-Unis son
Excellence Abdoulaye DIOP, représentant le Ministre de l’Economie et des Finances le
17 Juin 2004.

5. Plan de financement : Le projet est financé de façon dégressive pour la part du
financement Banque Mondiale :
      - 80% la première année ;
      - 60% la deuxième année ;
      - 40% la troisième année;
      - 20% la quatrième année.

6. Date estimative d’entrée en vigueur du Don : La date estimative d’entrée en vigueur
du Don est le 30 juin 2004. L’accord de Don a été signé le 17 juin 2004. L’absence de
cadre juridique concernant la création d’ONG a contraint l’équipe du projet à modifier les
arrangements institutionnels. Ceci et le fait que le premier coordinateur soit très occupé
ont amené l’entrée en vigueur du Don au 15 juillet 2005.

7. Date prévisionnelle de clôture du projet : La date prévisionnelle de clôture du projet
est le 30 juin 2009. Suite aux retards accusé par l’avenant au marché de construction du
Centre, de la non reconduite du contrat de CIBER, de la migration technologique par
l’exécution du dernier lot d’équipements (marché confié au PNUD), la date de clôture a
été prorogée et effective au 31 mai 2011. Le projet a bénéficié d’une période de grâce de
4 mois (jusqu’au 30 septembre 2011) pour les décaissements.


                                               29
8. Durée initiale du projet : 5 ans.

Introduction

Le Gouvernement du Mali a bénéficié auprès de la banque mondiale d’un Don pour la
création d’un Centre de Formation à Distance afin d’aider le pays dans sa politique de
renforcement des capacités. C’est ainsi qu’un accord de Don pour un montant de
1.700.000 DTS (Droit de Tirages Spéciaux) a été signé par l’Ambassadeur de la
république du Mali auprès des Etats-Unis son Excellence Abdoulaye DIOP, représentant
le Ministre de l’Economie et des Finances le 17 Juin 2004. L’objectif de l’accord de Don
est de rendre opérationnel le Centre durant la phase de projet. A cet titre le projet doit
s’atteler à construire les locaux devant abriter le centre, à équiper le centre en mobilier et
matériel pédagogique, à réaliser les installations techniques et à rendre le centre
fonctionnel.

Le projet a connu son démarrage effectif en juillet 2005. Le retard accusé pour le
démarrage du projet est en partie dû au remplissage de certaines conditions définies dans
l’accord de Don. A cela d’autres retards qui ont faillis hypothéquer l’exécution du Centre
ont été connus. Il s’agit entre autre du retard pris pour la signature de l’avenant relatif à la
construction du bâtiment, au non renouvellement du contrat de la Banque avec CIBER, à
la migration technologique, au retard pris par l’acquisition du dernier lot d’équipements.
Depuis près d’une année le Centre a commencé timidement ses activités tout en attendant
d’installer ses équipements audio-vidéo.
Le rapport d’achèvement que nous produisons couvre la période 2005-2011 d’existence
du projet CFD. Il est structuré autour des points suivants:

                      le contexte de la création du Centre,
                      les objectifs clés et les indicateurs de performance,
                      les résultats obtenus,
                      l’évaluation des résultats,
                      l’évaluation des risques majeurs sur le développement des résultats,
                      les performances du Centre et de la Banque Mondiale,
                      les leçons apprises, et
                      les perspectives

1. Contexte du projet

Le Mali s’est engagée dès le début des années 1990 dans un renouveau sans précédent de
la gouvernance publique, nécessitant une réforme en profondeur de l’administration
publique. Par ailleurs l’analyse de l’exécution du Cadre d’Appui Stratégique (CAS) de la
Banque mondiale pour la période 1999 – 2003 montre que la faiblesse des capacités est
l’une des principales contrainte qui empêchent de produire un impact sur le
développement au Mali. En 2003, une politique de développement institutionnel (PDI)
ayant pour objectif de rendre pérenne la constitution d’une administration de service
public qui place l’usager au centre des affaires publiques a été adopté par le
gouvernement du Mali. Le PDI s’articule autours de six (6) axes stratégiques qui sont :

                                              30
      -   La réorganisation de l’Etat central et le renforcement de la gestion publique ;
      -   L’amélioration des process, méthodes et procédures de gestions des affaires
          publiques ;
      -   Le renforcement de la déconcentration ;
      -   La consolidation de la décentralisation ;
      -   La valorisation et le renforcement des capacités des ressources humaines ;
      -   La communication et les relations avec les usagers.

Le gouvernement, conscient que ces axes ne peuvent être réalisés qu’avec des ressources
humaines de qualité, a placé la gestion des ressources humaines au cœur même de son
processus de développement institutionnel et une politique nationale des agents de l’Etat
a été élaborée. En effet pour mieux concevoir, élaborer, mettre en œuvre, suivre et
évaluer des stratégies, politiques, programmes et projets de développement et réduire la
pauvreté, le pays doit disposer de cadres bien formés et régulièrement mis à niveau.
Cependant le coût des formations, surtout à l’extérieur du pays, est très élevé. Ce qui
entraine souvent le non respect des différents plans et programmes de formation, initiés
par l’administration et les entreprises.

C’est dans ce cadre que le Gouvernement de la République du Mali et l’Association
Internationale de Développement (IDA) ayant à cœur de contribuer à résoudre ce
problème, ont conclu le 17 juin 2004, l’accord de don IDA N° H090-MLI d’un montant
de 1,7 million de DTS (soit 2,5 million de dollars US) relatif au financement partiel du
projet de Centre de Formation pour le Développement (CFD).
Le Centre est un Etablissement Public à Caractère Scientifique (EPST) sous la tutelle du
Ministère chargé de l’Economie et vise le renforcement de capacité des responsables et
décideurs des secteurs publics et privés dans la conception, la planification et la gestion
de politiques de développement, à travers l’accès à une formation et à des connaissances
de haut niveau qu’offre l’enseignement à distance utilisant les technologies de
l’information et de la communication. Le Centre a aussi pour mission la valorisation de
l’expertise locale et l’organisation de fora d’échanges entre acteurs impliqués dans les
politiques de développement de différents pays.

1.1 Evaluation du contexte

La volonté politique et les conditions économiques étaient favorables à la création du
Centre qui doit bénéficier de l’expérience des Centres GDLN du Sénégal, du Benin, de la
Côte d’Ivoire, de la Mauritanie et du Burkina Faso. Cependant le choix du Statut et de
l’encrage institutionnel prendra plus de temps que prévu.

1.2 Rappel des objectifs du projet et les indicateurs clés de performance

L’objectif de l’accord de Don est de rendre opérationnel le Centre durant la phase de
projet. A cet titre le projet doit s’atteler à construire les locaux devant abriter le centre, à
équiper le centre en mobilier et matériel pédagogique, à réaliser les installations
techniques, à recruter le personnel et à rendre le centre fonctionnel. Le Centre une fois



                                              31
opérationnel doit bénéficier d’un accompagnement de 4 à 5 afin qu’il assure son
autonomie financière.

L’apprentissage revêtira la forme d’une expérience menée à titre pilote afin de
documenter l’impact et la viabilité du Centre. Les fonctionnaires seront les plus
nombreux à suivre des formations au Centre afin de contribuer à l’amélioration de la
gestion des affaires publiques et renforcer la mise en œuvre du cadre stratégique de lutte
contre la pauvreté. Le succès du Centre sera évalué au regard d’indicateurs clés de
performance tels que la viabilité financière, la pertinence de la formation et l’application
des aptitudes acquises.

Les différents indicateurs clés peuvent être classées sous les indicateurs sectoriels, les
indicateurs de résultats d’impact et les indicateurs de résultats.

1.3 Avis sur les objectifs
Les objectifs assignés au projet sont pertinents et d’actualité. Le Centre bénéficie d’une
technologie haut de Gamme qui lui permet de se positionner comme leader de
l’enseignement à distance. Aussi l’appartenance aux réseaux GDLN et AACED lui donne
beaucoup plus de facilité d’accès aux connaissances de haut niveau à un prix
concurrentiel. Le Centre, pour sa viabilité, doit bénéficier d’un appui conséquent de l’Etat
qui doit fortement l’utilisé pour renforcer les capacités des acteurs impliqués dans la mise
en œuvre de ses politiques et programmes de développement.

1.4 Les principaux bénéficiaires
Les grands bénéficiaires du Centre sont les cadres du public, du privé et de la société
civile qui conçoivent, planifient, mettent en œuvre, suivent et évaluent nos politiques et
programmes de développement. Il s’agit entre autre des :
    - hauts fonctionnaires de l’Etat,
    - cadres du secteur privé et de la société civile,
    - PTF
    - personnels des projets de développement,
    - cadres impliqués dans l’amélioration de la gestion des finances publiques,
    - professionnels de la formation,
    - ONG,
    - communicateurs.
Cependant toute personne intéressée par les thèmes et activités proposés peut participer
aux formations.

5 Les composantes du projet

Le projet a trois composantes principales :
   i) La composante construction et équipement du Centre :
            Elle indique les ressources institutionnelles, matérielles et humaines requises
            pour le Centre. Elle est mise en œuvre par l’Unité de Coordination de Projet.


                                            32
           Le coût de cette composante est de 1,50 millions $ US dont 1,20 millions
           $ US financé par la Banque mondiale.
   ii) Le composant appui opérationnel :
           Elle consiste à rendre le Centre opérationnel, à établir sa viabilité et à mettre
           en place son programme de formation. Elle est mise en œuvre par le Centre.
           Le coût de cette composante est de 1,80 millions $ US dont 1,15 millions
           $ US financé par la Banque mondiale.
   iii) La composante suivi et évaluation :
           Elle est gérée par le Conseil du Centre avec la collaboration de la Direction du
           Centre. Le coût de cette composante est de 0,20 millions $ US dont 0,15
           millions $ US financé par la Banque mondiale.

Le montant de l’accord de Don de la Banque mondiale de 1 700 000 DTS (2 500 000
$ US) est réparti sur cinq (5) catégories de dépenses :

2. Les Principaux facteurs affectant la mise en œuvre et les résultats

2.1 La préparation, la conception et la qualité du projet au démarrage
Après des négociations en 2002, une mission de la Banque mondiale a eu lieu du 28
janvier au 1er février 2003 pour l’indentification du projet. Des recommandations de cette
mission on peut retenir :
    - Le projet doit être sous la tutelle d’un ministère multisectoriel, « transversal » et si
        possible à haute visibilité ;
    - Le CFD sera une entité juridique assurant l’autonomie et l’existence juridique du
        CFD et disposant d’un Conseil d’Administration ou Conseil de Gestion associant
        des partenaires publics et privés ;
    - Le recrutement d’un comptable par appel à candidature.

Le coordinateur du projet est un fonctionnaire qui en plus du projet continue à exécuter
ses tâches habituelles et n’a pas participer à la conception du projet, ce qui est un des
éléments ayant contribué au démarrage tardif du projet.

2.2 La mise en œuvre
Après la signature de l’accord de Don en juin 2004, il a fallu attendre plus d’une année
(juillet 2005) pour que le projet démarre réellement. Les discussions sur l’ancrage
institutionnel et le statut du Centre ont pris plus de temps que prévu. La mise en œuvre a
été exceptionnellement longue et le CFD attend encore son dernier lot d’équipements. En
effet le projet de Centre de Formation pour le Développement du Mali (CFD - P082187)
a accumulé un retard de près de cinq (5) ans dans sa mise en œuvre. Ce retard a été
provoqué par trois principaux facteurs :

(i) un retard d’une année dû principalement au changement d’ancrage institutionnel du
projet et au changement d’équipe de coordination, auquel se sont ajoutés des retards sur
les travaux;


                                             33
(ii) un retard de près de 24 mois dû à la transition technologique du programme GDLN en
Afrique.

Entre fin 2007 et 2009, l’Association africaine des Centres d'Enseignement à Distance
(AACED/AADLC: association qui fédère et coordonne l'ensemble des Centres GDLN
africains) s’est engagée dans un processus de migration vers un nouvel opérateur pour la
connectivité, l'installation et la maintenance des Centres GDLN en Afrique. Ces services
étaient jusqu’en mars 2009 fournis par la Banque mondiale (ISG et son partenaire Cyber).

Le Centre GDLN du Mali est le premier à avoir été mis en place dans le cadre de ce
nouvel arrangement et il a été affecté par les délais nécessaires à l'opérationnalisation de
cette solution. De plus, les équipements techniques (station VSAT, réseau informatique,
système de visioconférence et d'interprétation, systèmes audio et vidéo, équipements
bureautiques, etc.) étaient auparavant acquis par la Banque mondiale au nom des Centres.

Le projet GDLN du Mali a donc du attendre l’identification du nouvel opérateur pour
pouvoir acheter sa station terrestre VSAT et son système de vidéoconférence. Il a
également dû identifier et contracter d'autres fournisseurs pour l'acquisition des autres
équipements. Le tout dernier lot d'équipements (systèmes audio-vidéo et d'interprétation
simultanée) qui permettra au CFD d'être totalement opérationnel a été installé et intégré
en novembre 2011.

(iii) Un retard de près de 24 mois du d'une part au temps mis pour rembourser le PNUD
(relativement à un certains nombre de marchés dont l'exécution avait été confiée au
PNUD. Ces marchés avaient été exécutés et le PNUD avait payé les factures pour se faire
rembourser après) et d'autre part au non respect des procédures de la Banque mondiale
par le PNUD, qui était chargé de piloter la passation du dernier marché d'équipements
techniques du Centre.

Le Centre a commencé timidement ses activités de formation à partir de juillet 2010 avec
une hausse remarquable des ses activités à partir de avril 2011, tout en attendant son
dernier lot d’équipements pour être totalement opérationnel.

2.3 Le statut et l’ancrage institutionnel
Le CFD a été créé par l’ordonnance n° 08-010/P-RM DU 3 OCT 2008 ratifiée par la LOI
N°08-049/ du 26 DEC 2008 comme un Etablissement Public à Caractère Scientifique
sous la tutelle du Ministère chargé de l’Economie. Le décret n° 08-651/P-RM du 27 OCT
2008 fixe l’organisation et les modalités de fonctionnement du Centre.

La gestion quotidienne du Centre est placée sous l’autorité du Directeur. Le Conseil
d’Administration composé d’administrateurs du public, du privé et de la société civile se
réunit une foi par an (mais peut tenir une réunion extraordinaire à tout moment) pour
définir les grandes orientations du Centre. Le Comité scientifique qui se réunit deux fois
l’an donne son avis sur les questions relatives à l’organisation et la mise en œuvre des
programmes de formation à distance, le plan de formation et les résultats des formations.
En conséquence du très grand retard pris pour l’opérationnalisation du Centre, ces

                                            34
organes n’ont pas pleinement fonctionné. Le Centre a cependant bénéficié de différentes
missions de supervision de la Banque mondiale. L’audit annuel des comptes et les
rapports de suivi financier permettent également d’obtenir des éléments d’évaluation de
la gestion à la fin de chaque exercice budgétaire.

2.4 La prévision de la suite du projet :
Le statut du Centre, son ancrage institutionnel et les besoins énormes en renforcement des
capacités sont entre autres des éléments qui présagent une viabilité du Centre au-delà de
la phase projet. Le Centre a certes pris un grand retard dû globalement aux raisons
évoquées plus haut mais le projet bénéficie de sa pertinence et de la volonté politique des
plus hautes autorités orientés vers le développement et la réduction de la pauvreté. Ce qui
passent obligatoirement par des cadres compétents et régulièrement mis à niveau, toute
chose qui est un sous-bassement certain pour une existence solide et durable du Centre
après la phase projet. Le CFD aura besoin d’un appui substantiel de l’Etat malien pour
atteindre rapidement son autonomie financière et assurer sa pérennité.

3. Evaluation des résultats

3.1 Pertinence et réalisation des objectifs, la conception et la mise en œuvre

La problématique du renforcement des capacités, le coût élevé des formations à
l’extérieur montre à suffisance la pertinence des objectifs du projet. Le délai pris par la
phase projet a été très longue mais les attentes du Centre grandissent chaque jour, ce qui
laisse entrevoir un renforcement de sa mission. Les objectifs ne sont certes pas réalisés à
souhait mais le Centre prendra très certainement et rapidement sa vitesse de
fonctionnement pour assurer son autonomie et accomplir sa mission avec succès.

Notons aussi le fait que le coordinateur du projet n’a pas participé à sa conception fait
partie des éléments fort qui rendu difficile sa mise en œuvre.

3.2 Les résultats obtenus après 1 ans d’opérationnalisation

3.2.1 Au plan des activités
Le grand retard accusé a fait que le CFD n’a pu mener des activités réelles de formation
que pour moins d’une année et cela avec des équipements incomplets à une période où
les différents centres homologues ont presque arrêté leurs activités suite à la très
mauvaise qualité de la bande passante après la migration technologique. Les différentes
formations ont portés sur les thèmes suivants : le leadership ; le suivi et évaluation ;
Organisation, Gestion et Pilotage sur objectif des budgets ; Organisation et gestion des
ressources humaines ; Audit des marchés publics et la corruption dans les passations de
marché, Audit organisationnelle de l’Administration publique ; Relations économiques
Internationales ; Contrôle de gestion dans l’Administration publique ; etc. . .

Notons cependant que de juin 2010 à décembre 2011 le CFD a reçu 1321 auditeurs dont
90% du public et 10% du secteur privé et de la société civile. Les hommes représentent

                                            35
79% et les femmes 21%. En fait ces tendances s’expliquent par l’environnement
caractérisé d’un secteur privé formel qui n’est pas très présent avec des opérateurs
économiques qui ne sont pas toujours des produits de l’école. Nous constatons que de
plus en plus les femmes participent aux activités du Centre. Le taux de remplissage de la
salle visioconférence est de 53 % (soit 23 % en 2010 et 68 % en 2011). Ce faible taux de
remplissage est en partie du au fait que la salle ne pouvait recevoir le maximum de sa
capacité car les équipements audio-vidéo étaient attendus.

Les facilités du CFD sont aussi utilisées pour les échanges (fora d’échanges,
téléconférences, réunions par VC etc..) entre cadres de différents pays. A ce niveau le
CFD a initié et organisé un forum sur « La sécurité juridique dans l’exercice du contrôle
fiscal : le rôle du comptable comme levier dans l’amélioration de la gestion des finances
publiques », qui a vu les cadres du Mali, du Bénin, de la Mauritanie et du Sénégal
échanger et partager leurs idées. Le CFD a initié la conférence sur « LA problématique
sécuritaire en Afrique de l’Ouest : armes légères, drogue et terrorisme ». Cette
conférence qui s’est tenue le 17 septembre 2011 sous la coprésidence de 3 ministres du
Mali a permi aux membres du gouvernement, aux parlementaires aux PTF, aux
différentes personnes ressources du Mali, du Benin ; du Burkina Faso, de la Côte d’Ivoire,
de Madagascar et de la Mauritanie de partager leurs différents points de vues et
observations.

Tableau2: Modes d’évènements

                                 2010             2011(Janvier-             Total
                                                   Décembre)
     Visioconférence               7                   14                     21

     Présentiel                   10                   15                     25
            Total                 17                   29                     46


Tableau3 : Participants selon les évènements


        Année           Nbre de           Visioconférence               Présentiel
                      Participants
                                          Nbre           %           Nbre            %

     2010                 334              48          14 %          286           86 %

     2011                 987             237          24 %          750           76 %

         Total            1321            285          22 %         1036           78 %


Tableau4 : Participants selon le genre

                                           36
          Année           Nbre de                     Hommes                       Femmes
                        Participants
                                                Nbre            %          Nbre                %

       2010                    334              242            72 %           92              28 %

       2011                    987              806            82 %         181               18 %

          Total             1321                1048           79 %         273               21 %


Tableau5 : Participants selon le secteur d’activité


          Année           Nbre de                Secteur Public                Secteur Privé
                        Participants
                                                Nbre            %          Nbre                %

       2010                    334              298            89 %           36              11 %

       2011                    987              888            90 %           99              10 %

          Total             1321                1186           90 %         135               10 %


Tableau6 : Taux de remplissage de la salle visioconférence (capacité de la salle 30
places)

                                                           Nombre       Nbre        Total       Taux de
Années    Nombre        Nbre          Total     Taux de      total     théoriq     Particip     rempiss
          d'Activit   Théoriqu       Particip   Rempliss   d’activit    ue de       ants        age (%)
           és VC           e          ants       age (%)    és (VC     partici
                      Participan                              et        pants
                          ts                               Présent)

2010          7          210           48         23 %         17       510          334           65%

2011          14         420           237        68 %         29       870          987           113%

  Total       21         630           285        53 %         46       1380        1321           96%

3.2.2 Au plan administratif et financier

Les ressources humaines
Le Centre fonctionne avec un effectif de cinq (5) agents-clé. Il s’agit du Directeur, du
Responsable Administratif et Financier (RAF), du Coordinateur de la Formation (CF), de
l’Ingénieur IT et de l’Assistant de Direction. Le personnel d’appui est constitué du
                                                 37
chauffeur et du coursier. Le RAF a été recruté dès au démarrage du projet et le reste du
personnel en 2009 pour une durée déterminée d’un an renouvelable.
Après l’achat du véhicule utilitaire (en mai 2011), un deuxième a été recruté. Le Centre
recevant un appui du budget national, un comptable public vient d’y être affecté par
l’Etat, ce qui amène l’effectif total des agents à neuf (9).

Les ressources financières

Le Centre de Formation pour le Développement a bénéficié de quatre types de
ressources :
      les fonds propres,
      le don de la Banque Mondiale,
      l’appui du PNUD,
      Les subventions de l’Etat.

Les ressources propres

Le CFD a exécuté timidement ses activités de formation pendant le dernier semestre de
l’année 2010 et l’année 2011. Ces activités comprennent les formations par
visioconférence, les formations en présentiel et les locations de salles. Le montant reçu de
ces activités est de103 771 125 FCFA (dont 12 159 300 FCFA en 2010 et 91 611 825
FCFA en 2011).

L’accroissement de ces ressources propres demande un marketing de bon niveau et
offensif, que l’Etat alloue un budget consistant au CFD pour la formation des cadres du
public, la diversification des activités du CFD en cherchant des sponsors pour les fora et
les conférences portant sur des thèmes d’actualité et sensibles du développement. Les
formations doivent être données par des formateurs de très haut niveau qui comblent
totalement les espérances des participants.

L’appui de la Banque Mondiale

Le montant du crédit de la Banque mondiale est de 1700 000 DTS (1 135 803 650
FCFA). Le montant des dépenses à la clôture est de 1 673 844,85 DTS, toute catégorie
confondue, soit un taux de décaissement de 98,46%. Le solde du crédit est de 26 155,15
DTS. Le crédit devrait couvrir les frais d’installation et une période de fonctionnement de
quatre ans. Le grand retard pris pour l’opérationnalisation du Centre (ce qui a été évoqué
plus haut dans la mise en œuvre) a entrainé des dépassements de montants alloués à
certaines catégories, quand certaines catégories n’ont pu être exécutées.




                                            38
Tableau7 : Données relatives au décaissement du Don par catégorie

                                                       Montant
                                       Montant                       Pourcentage
Catégorie           Désignation                       Décaissé (en
                                    Alloué (en DTS)                      (%)
                                                         DTS)
    1       Travaux                       560 000       571 447,94         102,04
    2       Fournitures                   490 000       621 537,07         126,84
    3       Consultants Audit             310 000        95 559,63          30,83
    4       Formation et voyages            70 000       77 320,98         110,46
            Fonctionnement
   5A                                       70 000      217 410,08         310,59
            1ere Année
            Fonctionnement
   5B                                       70 000       90 356,97         129,08
            2ème Année
            Fonctionnement
   5C                                       70 000                           0,00
            3ème Année
            Fonctionnement
   5D                                       30 000                           0,00
            4ème Année
    6       PPF                                500          212,18          42,44
    7       Non Alloué                      29 500               -           0,00
            Total                        1 700 000    1 673 844,85          98,46




Les subventions de l’Etat du Mali
Le CFD étant un Etablissement Public à caractère scientifique a bénéficié au titre des
fonds de contrepartie 238 000 000 FCFA dont 212 900 000 FCFA ont été payé. Le CFD a
aussi bénéficié au titre de l’exercice budgétaire 2011 d’une dotation de 111 723 000
FCFA dont 38 860 000 FCFA au titre du PAGAM II. Pour l’achat de son dernier lot
d’équipements (les équipements audio-vidéo) le CFD a reçu de l’Etat malien 185 802 647
FCFA. Ce qui fait un montant total de 535 525 647 FCFA dont 500 425 647 FCFA payé.




                                            39
Tableau8 : Situation de recouvrement des fonds de contrepartie


     Années               Mandat (en CFA)        Montant payé       Reliquat à payer

     2005               23 000 000               23 000 000         -
     2006               95 000 000               95 000 000         -
     2007               20 000 000               -                  20 000 000
     2008               20 000 000               19 700 000             300 000
     2009               20 000 000               15 200 000           4 800 000
     2010               40 000 000               40 000 000         -
     2011               20 000 000               20 000 000         -
             Sous Total 238 000 000              212 900 000        25 100 000
     Exercice    Budget
     2011               111 723 000
     Coût Equipements
     audio-vidéo        185 802 647
               TOTAL 535 525 647

L’appui du PNUD

La contribution du PNUD est de 200 000 $US. Cette contribution a permis entre autre de
(d'):
- payer le salaire du directeur,
- effectuer les voyages d'études à Dakar et à Cotonou,
- former le RAF en passation des marchés 2ème niveau à Tunis,
- financer la participation du CFD aux réunions annuelles de l'AACED à Dakar (2009) et
à la conférence eLearning Africa 2009,
- financer la participation du CFD à des ateliers de formations organisés par le CREN.

4. Evaluation de l’exécution du projet :

Pour cause de facteurs, pour la plus part externes (voire la mise en œuvre), le projet a
connu un très grand retard dans son exécution. Ce retard pris a causé une différence
remarquable entre les coûts estimés des activités et les coûts réels au moment d’exécution
de l’activité. Les montants alloués à certaines catégories ont été largement dépassés
pendant que d’autres n’ont pu être exécuté. Cela peut amener à penser à une évaluation
négative du projet. Cependant la problématique de renforcement des capacités est
toujours des plus préoccupantes donnant ainsi au projet toute sa légitimité. C’est ainsi des
activités de formation en présentiel et par VC ont été exécutées, et ont été très appréciées
par les participants. Les fora d’échanges et les conférences par VC ont aussi été
hautement appréciés par les participants. Les participants aux activités sont d’une très
bonne qualité (Ministres, Députés, Directeurs, Conseillers techniques, etc.…). Ceci nous
a amené à fonder le marketing du Centre sur la qualité des activités, la qualité des
participants et la qualité des services du CFD.


                                            40
Notons cependant que la mobilisation des publics cibles est lente et difficile, et surtout
en-deçà des attentes. Par ailleurs, les structures, lorsqu’ils obtiennent un financement
pour les formations, préfèrent les faire dans des lieux où les participants peuvent
bénéficier de perdîmes. A cela il faut ajouter le fait que les cadres préfèrent des
formations à l’extérieur, ce qui leur permet de visiter de nouvelles villes et de décrocher
momentanément pour se reposer.

5. Evaluation des performances de la Banque et de l’Emprunteur

5.1 Performances de la Banque

Globalement les performances de la Banque mondiale sont satisfaisantes. Cela peut
s’expliquer par le taux global de décaissement et la prorogation de la date de clôture
après le retard accusé du en partie à des causes externes. Le fait de programmer
l’installation du Centre du Nigéria après celui de Madagascar pendant que le Mali
attendait CIBER a été l’une des causes les plus importantes du retard accusé. Suite à cela,
l’équipe de direction n’a ménagé d’intelligence et de temps pour trouver une solution
alternative, le contrat de CIBER n’ayant plus été renouveler par la Banque. Il faut
cependant noter que le retard est aussi en partie causé par une certaine lourdeur se
manifestant par des procédures longues ou mal maitrisées, particulièrement au niveau de
la passation des marchés. Le long temps pris pour valider l’avenant relatif au poste
mémoire eau et électricité de la composante « Bâtiment » en est une illustration.

5.1.1 Dans la qualité de service au démarrage

Il y a eu une très bonne collaboration entre l’équipe de la Banque et les autorités locales,
illustré par l’aide mémoire de la mission d’identification du projet. L’appui du TTL a été
remarquable pour la mise en place de l’équipe du projet et le démarrage des activités.

5.1.2 Qualité de la supervision

L’équipe de la Banque dans le cadre de sa supervision a toujours apporté un plus au
projet. Cette supervision s’est faite à travers les visites sur le terrain, les échanges par
courriel, et les échanges pendant les réunions régionales de l’AACED. Nous déplorons
cependant l’absence de TTL pendant près de six (6) mois de la dernière année du projet
(période la plus critique), ce qui a négativement contribuer sur le nombre de formations et
des participants et du coup a prolongé les délais pour l’autonomie financière.

5.1.3 Justification du niveau de performance de la Banque

Quand bien même l’exécution du projet prenait du retard, la Banque n’a jamais cessé
d’apporter son appui. L’unité de coordination du projet a bénéficié d’un appui
remarquable de la Banque pour renforcer ses compétences particulièrement en procédures
des passations des marchés de la Banque mondiale. Le taux de décaissement est
appréciable malgré les difficultés rencontrées pour l’exécution du projet.

                                            41
5.2 Performances de l’emprunteur

De façon générale et au-delà du retard accusé dans l’exécution de ce projet, l’emprunteur
par ses différents appuis et ses prises de décisions pour trouver des solutions alternatives
suite à des blocages a une performance qu’on peut qualifié d’appréciable.

5.2.1 Performance du Gouvernement

La performance de l’Etat est salutaire si on se réfère aux différentes subventions (voire
tableau8). L’appui de l’Etat pour l’acquisition du dernier lot d’équipements est très
remarquable et est un témoignage de l’engagement de l’Etat à soutenir le projet.

5.2.2 Performance de l’Agence d’exécution

La Direction du Centre malgré le retard accusé, n’a jamais ignoré la pertinence du projet
et n’a ménagé aucun effort pour son exécution. Avec des équipements incomplets la
direction a fait preuve d’engagement proactif pour la tenue des VC de manière
satisfaisante. La conviction et l’engagement de la Direction sont les causes principales
des résultats obtenus dans l’environnement que nous avons décliné plus haut. Les
activités tenues, leur qualité, la qualité des participants, le plaidoyer auprès de l’Etat pour
son appui sont autant de points remarquables notant la performance de l’Agent
d’exécution.

5.2.3 Justification du niveau de performance de l’emprunteur

Les différents appuis, la reconnaissance de la pertinence du Centre et la volonté
d’accompagner le CFD afin qu’il assure son autonomie financière le plus rapidement
possible justifient à suffisance le niveau de performance de l’Etat.

Le retard accusé nous amène à réfléchir sur ce qui aurait du être fait pour l’éviter. Il est
important que les coordinateurs et les responsables administratifs des projets soient
recrutés bien avant afin qu’ils puissent participer à la conception même du projet et du
coup s’approprier du projet. Il est utile de mener des réflexions pour l’acceptation, par la
Banque mondiale, des procédures de passation des marchés de certaines institutions
fiables sinon améliorer les procédures nationales afin qu’elles puissent être utilisées.
Face au désir de formations des cadres à l’extérieur et du paiement des perdîmes, pour
que le Centre puisse assurer de façon performante sa mission, il doit bénéficier de fonds
qu’il doit utiliser pour renforcer les capacités des différents acteurs impliqués dans nos
politiques et programme de développement.

Nous vivons dans un monde global où les échanges entre cadres de différents pays
peuvent apporter beaucoup dans le changement positif de mentalité et de comportement,
d’où la nécessité d’accroitre les fora d’échange et les conférences par VC.
Le Centre doit s’assurer d’offrir des activités de qualité offertes par des institutions
reconnues de qualité pour son image, ce qui est déterminant pour la réussite de sa mission.


                                              42
7. Les Difficultés

Le CFD n’ayant été que timidement opérationnel pendant une année, les principales
difficultés sont celles déclinées dans la mise en œuvre et qui ont eu comme conséquence
le retard pris. A cela il faut ajouter les difficultés relatives aux formations à l’extérieur et
au perdîmes. Le retrait de la Banque étant effectif juste après un an de timide activités va
certainement confronter le Centre à d’autres difficultés que nous espérons seront
atténuées par l’appui de l’Etat.

Notons aussi que malgré nos multiples sollicitations et la qualité des activités de
formation du CFD, nous ne sentons pas la participation des personnels des projets
financés par les PTF, la banque mondiale y compris. Cette attitude assimilable à celle des
cadres du public préférant les formations à l’extérieur.

Les coûts relatifs à la Bande passante sont très élevés depuis la migration technologique.
Aussi depuis cette migration les Centre francophones de l’ACCED font moins (ou pas du
tout) des cours communs. A ce niveau nous sommes en train de nous investir fortement
pour relancer nos activités en commun afin de réduire les coûts de formation tout en
augmentant la qualité.

Il y a aussi les paramètres de promotion personnelle qui ne motivent pas beaucoup les
compétences. Des mesures doivent être prises pour réinstaller une véritable culture de la
formation.

8. Perspectives pour le Centre

Les perspectives pour le Centre c’est a priori d’assurer rapidement son autonomie
financière. Le Centre doit assurer sa pérennité et montrer sa viabilité et son utilité pour
accompagner le gouvernement dans sa politique de réduction de la pauvreté et d’atteinte
des objectifs du millénium. Il faut pour cela avoir des partenaires internationalement
reconnus pour la grande qualité de leurs prestations, d’où la nécessité de continuer à
chercher des partenariats avec des institutions de qualité.

Afin d’éviter de déplacer les ordinateurs de la salle multimédia lors des cours ne
nécessitant des ordinateurs, il est pertinent de construire une nouvelle salle qui peut être
cloisonnée pour avoir trois à quatre petites salles, pour les formations en présentiel sans
ordinateur et d’autres type d’ateliers.

Face au coût élevé de la Bande passante, l’AACED a décidé de voir les opportunités
qu’offre la fibre optique. Si c’est concluant (qualité et coût) le CFD se tournera vers la
connexion par fibre optique.

Le Mali est un pays très vaste, il faut dès maintenant penser à des antennes du CFD dans
les provinces. L’installation de ces antennes se fera après une étude sérieuse et
approfondie car il ne sert à rien de créer des antennes qui ne seront pas viables.



                                              43
Conclusion

Le CFD est le premier centre de l’Association AACED à être installer après la migration
technologique et la rupture du contrat de la Banque mondiale avec CIBER. Ce qui
explique en grande partie les problèmes rencontrés par le projet. Après une année de
timide exécution de ses activités, on peut retenir que la pertinence du projet est indéniable
et est encore d’actualité. Pour la pérennité et la viabilité du CFD, en l’absence de l’appui
de la Banque, il est important que le Centre bénéficie de l’accompagnement du
gouvernement.

Il est important que les activités du Centre dans le réseau soient renforcées. En fait le
réseau est ce qui fait la différence entre un Centre GDLN et n’importe quel autre Centre
d’Enseignement à Distance. Pour assurer pleinement avec efficacité sa mission, le Centre
doit conserver sa spécificité qui fait qu’il n’est pas une Université, ni un centre de
formation comme les autres d’où son ancrage sous la tutelle du Ministère chargé de
l’Economie hautement apprécié.

Il est très important que le Centre continue à s’appuyer sur des consultants de haut niveau
pour distiller une formation de qualité et assurer le renforcement des capacités des acteurs
impliqués dans les politiques et programmes de développement. Pour cela le Centre doit
bénéficier de ressources conséquentes pour sa mission.

La phase projet est certes finie, mais le Centre doit continuer à entretenir avec la Banque
mondiale en particulier et les PTF en général une très bonne relation partenariale pour
améliorer la qualité des ressources humaines.




                                             44
Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
None

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
Project Appraisal Document
Development Grant Agreement
Supervision Reports and Aid Memoirs
Implementation Status Reports
Government’s Evaluation Report (English version)
Repport d’ Achevement (French version)




                                         45
Annex 10. Amendment of the Development Grant Agreement


On September 20, 2007, the Government requested for an Amendment of the Development Grant
Agreement (DGA H090-MLI) in the Government Letter No. Ref: 301/MEIC-SG. IDA approved
the Government request to amend the DGA on December 14, 2007 and amended the DGA as
follows:

New paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 are added under Part C of Section 1 of Schedule 3 o the Agreement to
read as following:

        4.      ―Direct Contracting

        Goods and works which Association agrees meet the requirements for Direct Contracting
may be procured in accordance with the provision of paragraph 3.7 of the Procurement
Guidelines.

        5.      Procurement from United Nations Agencies

        Goods may be procured directly from United Nations Agencies in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines.

        6.      Procurement Agents

       A Procurement Agent may be selected to manager procurement for the Project, in
accordance with the provision of paragraphs 3.10 of the Procurement Guidelines.‖

Paragraph 4 of Part C of Section II of Schedule 3 to the Agreement is amended to read as
following:

        4.      Single Source Selection

       Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the requirements of the paragraph 3.10 of
the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, with the Association’s prior
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of the paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of
the Consultant Guidelines.‖

A new paragraph 3 is added to Schedule 4 of the Agreement to read as follows, and paragraphs 3
to 9 are re-numbered 4 to 10.

        3.      Implementation Agreement.

       The Recipient shall maintain at all times during implementation of the Project an
implementation agreement with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the obligation of UNDP to
support the Recipient in carrying out the following tasks: (i) implementation support; (ii)


                                               46
procurement services; and (iii) strengthening the capacity of the Recipient for Project
administration and management.‖

The Government signed on the above amendment and it became effective on January 10, 2008.




                                            47
Table 1- DLC Video-based Learning and Face-to-Face Professional Training Courses – 2010 -2011

     Video Conference                                            Training Courses
1    Organisation, gestion, formation des ressources        1    Logistique des transports
     humaines au sein d’organismes, publics ou privés,
     pilotés sur objectifs
2    Organisation, gestion, pilotage sur objectifs des      2    Formations sur le modèle budgétaire à
     budgets au sein d’organismes, publics ou privés             moyen termes (CBMT
     (budget Training
3    Le Pilotage sur objectifs de politiques et de          3    Formation des assistants de directions
     Programmes de Développement
4    Formation en Leadeurship sur les Frontières en         4    Méthodologie à la capitalisation
     politique de développement
5    Comment élaborer et mettre en œuvre un                 5    Formation sur la Réforme des Marchés
     Programme Communal de Développement                         Publiques
     Economique, Social et Culturel orienté sur les
6    Audit des Marchés Publics et de la corruption dans     6    Formation en suivi-évaluation sur les
     les Marchés Publics,                                        PTI/BSI (
7    Audit organisationnel de l'Administration Publique     7    Gestion d’Entreprise pour dirigeant

8    Contrôle de Gestion dans l’Administration              8    La Gestion de Projets
     Publique
     Project Management
9    Les Fondements de la GAR                               9    Procédures de passation des marchés
10                                                          10   Atelier de Formation sur l’Analyse des
     Planification, Mise en œuvre et Gestion du
                                                                 programmes avec la Direction des
     Changement
                                                                 Finances et du Matériel
11                                                          11   Formation en techniques professionnelles
     Relations Economiques Internationales (avec                 de production, de conservation et de
     examen pour l’obtention du Certificat)                      commercialisation des produits
                                                                 alimentaires.
12                                                          12   Suivi et évaluation dans le contexte de la
     China DAC Infrastructures (Forum of exchange)
                                                                 GAR
13   La sécurité juridique dans l’exercice du contrôle      13   Renforcement des capacités
     fiscal, le rôle du comptable comme levier dans              organisationnelles et managériales des
     l’amélioration de la gestion des finances publiques         PNIP
     (forum d’échange initié par le CFD du Mali entre
     cadres maliens et leurs homologues du Bénin, de la
     Côte d’ivoire, du Sénégal et de la Mauritanie).
14   Conférence sur « la problématique sécuritaire et       14   Le cadre macroéconomique de la
     gouvernance en Afrique de l’Ouest : Armes                   Direction nationale du plan et du
     légères, drogues et terrorisme » (Conférence initié         développement
     par le CFD du Mali sous la coprésidence de 3
     ministres : le Ministre de l’Economie et des
     Finances, le Ministres des affaires étrangères et de
     la coopération internationale et le ministre de la
     sécurité intérieure et la protection civile. A cette
     conférence ont participé par VC les cadres du
     Bénin, du Burkina Faso, de la Côte d’Ivoire et
     Madagascar)
15   Atelier d’échange et de Formation avec l’institut      15   Santé et environnement
     TERI(Inde), dans le cadre de l’énergie solaire avec


                                                    48
     l’idée d’offrir la lumière sur un millier de vie en
     Afrique.
16   Atelier d’échange et de Formation avec AUSAID         15   Budgétisation axée sur les résultats
     (Australie) sur la gestion des eaux pluviales.
                                                           16   Actions transnationales destinées à
                                                                améliorer les conditions socio-
                                                                économiques et le développement de la
                                                                société civile en Afrique de l’Ouest.
                                                           17   Suivi et évaluation dans le contexte de la
                                                                GAR.
                                                           18   Formation sur une migration numérique
                                                                d’ici 2015 (avec le RAPAF : Réseau de
                                                                l’Audiovisuel Public de l’Afrique
                                                                Francophone)
Source: Government – Director of CFD




                                                     49
DLC Staff - Terms of Reference – recommended to the Government

DIRECTOR

The Director has overall responsibility for administering, managing and operating the
Development Learning Center so that it is evolves into a self-sustaining Center within a period of
three (3) to five (5) years. This individual will be responsible for providing leadership within the
Center and the community in the area of Development Learning and be an agent for change. The
Director will report to a Board of Directors who will provide overall guidance and support to the
Development Learning Center.

The role of the Director will be:

   to provide leadership and direction to a small staff,
   to manage the operation of the Center,
   to facilitate the team dynamics in a flat organizational structure,
   to establish a transparent and accountable financial management system,
   to provide a business development function with a long term sustainability focus,
   to provide strategic direction and guidance to the Center, and
   to engage the community as a strategic partner in the DLC.

The specific responsibilities of the Director will include but are not limited to:

   developing an awareness of the clients training needs,
   maintaining a training schedule that provides Development Learning courses and seminars
    that fulfil these needs chosen from among GDLC courses, other providers and custom
    produced courses
   managing the learner support system,
   liaising with senior government and World Bank officials,
   marketing and promoting the DLC and its specific learning events to potential clients,
   generating sufficient activity in courses, seminars, and workshops that will justify an income
    sufficient to pay for network access, staff cost and, maintenance and amortization of
    equipment,
   fundraising and working with donors,
   providing a quality assurance function in the operation of the Center,
   preparing an annual business plan for the Center, and
   preparing an annual report

The Director will have the following skills and qualifications:

   a higher degree,
   an entrepreneurial spirit,
   a significant experience in management,
   a good command of English and of the primary language of the site’s country.
   a working knowledge of communication and marketing tools,
   excellent communication and interpersonal skills,
   an ability to work in a highly fluid environment,

                                                  50
   an understanding of the role and an ability to act as an agent for change,
   a team builder

TRAINING COORDINATOR

The Training Coordinator is responsible for the management of all training events and activities
that happen in the Center. This primarily consists of learner support and the facilitation of courses
and seminars. As a member of the DLC team, this person will also assist the Manager in briefing
potential clients on benefits from an educational perspective.

The role of the Training Coordinator will be:
 to act as a resource in the area of design and development of educational programs,
 to train new users and instructors,
 to facilitate videoconference and computer conferences, and
 to assess new software that will be used to facilitate learning opportunities in the Center
   particularly in the multimedia computer labs.

The specific responsibilities of the Training Coordinator will include:

   acting as the primary contact person with participants in courses and seminars,
   coordinating course offerings with the course providers and the WBI,
   supervising the registration of participants,
   ensuring the proper distribution of all course materials,
   facilitating the delivery of courses to the Center by introducing participants to the technology
    (in association with the IT staff),
   moderating discussion groups during local activities,
   encouraging the interaction by e-mail, fax, and voice,
   facilitating the production of courses from the Center by assisting local experts in the design
    of their courses,
   training local instructors in the use of technology and on facilitation and mentoring skills to
    be used in Development delivery,
   assisting in the production of learning materials and slides,
   assessing new courseware from the perspective of application to Development Learning, and
   participating in and managing local evaluation activities.

The Training Coordinator will have the following qualifications and skills:

   a higher degree and optimally a qualification in education, teacher training or educational
    technology,
   a skilled and experienced adult educator,
   a self motivator,
   excellent communication and interpersonal skills,
   an ability to work as a team member in a highly fluid environment,
   a familiarity with basic computer software e.g. word processing, spreadsheets
   proficiency in establishing web sites and managing page content in collaboration with the
    technician, and
   knowledge of spoken English and the local language (written and spoken) is essential.

IT OFFICER OR TECHNICIAN

                                                 51
The information technology staff is responsible for supporting the Development Learning
Center’s technology infrastructure. As a member of the DLC team, this person will also take part
in briefing potential clients on benefits from a technology perspective.

The role of the technician will be:

   to maintain and support NT and Lotus Notes client-server environment (40+ PCs), and
    administrate NT/Notes activities (e.g. user names and login activity, services, regular
    maintenance and backup procedures, network printer connectivity, file services and IP
    connectivity),
   to conduct regular maintenance and troubleshooting on existing office and communication
    technology equipment (videoconference units, monitors) and maintain a trouble log,
   to participate in the design, installation, configuration and activation of new technology and
    communication services at the Development Learning Center,
   to maintain an up-to-date inventory of office equipment and software,
   to provide expert advice and guidance to Development Learning clients on hardware and
    software, and
   to establish a credible relationship with local telecom providers and equipment vendors.

The specific responsibilities of the technician will include:

   assisting with hardware and software procurement and maintenance, evaluating local
    technology vendors, ensuring adherence to existing standards,
   providing proper security of equipment and data by ensuring that equipment is either locked
    or secured in place, and any data coming from outside agencies is thoroughly screened for
    viruses before being introduced in Development Learning Center,
   establishing regular contact with the other Development Learning Center IT staff for the
    purpose of sharing experiences and best practices,
   remaining abreast of the latest IT developments by maintaining regular contacts with outside
    vendors, and
   assessing new hardware and software from the perspective of application to Development
    Learning.

The technician will have the following primary skills and qualifications:

   a higher degree, preferably in Computer Science, and two years relevant experience in the
    computer industry (preferably in a networked environment), or two years training in a
    polytechnic institute in electronics with extensive experience in the telecommunications or
    networking environment,
   superior analytical and problem solving skills,
   five years minimum experience with PC hardware and software support, including extensive
    knowledge of configuration and repair issues. Experience should include support of notebook
    computers and PC Card accessories for notebooks,
   high proficiency in the use Windows NT, Lotus Notes, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and anti-
    virus software,
   proficiency in establishing and maintaining web sites and managing page content in
    collaboration with the training coordinator,
   working knowledge of client server technology and general network connectivity and
    maintenance issues (e.g. servers, hubs, routers, Ethernet cabling),

                                                 52
   experience with network administration highly desirable,
   working knowledge of telecommunications equipment and software (e.g. PABX telephone
    configuration, and modems),
   working knowledge of video conferencing equipment (experience with PictureTel systems
    highly desirable),
   a basic understanding of satellite technology (e.g. current uses and practices), and
   knowledge of spoken English and the local language (written and spoken) is essential.

The technician should have the following additional skills:

   a self-starter with the ability to apply knowledge and expertise to deliver high quality work
    and to self-manage work program,
   an ability to work as a team member in a highly fluid environment and to develop technology
    solutions that encourage the use of collaborative computing,
   a demonstrated ability to assist end-users in learning standard software applications through
    demonstrations, written guides, etc.


FINANCIAL SPECIALIST/ACCOUNTANT

The detailed job description of the Finance Manager shall be as follows:

JOB DESCRIPTION

   Ensuring that there is proper maintenance of financial information under generally
    accepted accounting principles to provide a basis for adequate financial control and
    timely preparation of audited accounts
   Producing within agreed time frames and in standard formats Financial Monitoring
    Reports, monthly management accounts and related supporting reports
   Assisting the project coordinator in the preparation of quarterly and annual reports for
    presentation to the steering Committee and other interested parties by providing the
    required financial data for decision making.
   Evaluating project financial performance against projected the Government and
    Donor funding obligations for the determination of expenditure priorities and the
    timely replenishment of funds.
   Reviewing and evaluating internal control and check systems, procedures and
    methods.
   Recommending and subsequently implementing in conjunction with relevant
    agencies, improved methods of maintaining project financial accounts in order to
    meet project changing needs.
   Controlling internal disbursement of all funds to ensure that the government and
    IDA’s standing instructions are adhered to, thereby safeguarding project interests
    against fraud, thefts.
   Ensuring proper disbursement of funds in order to facilitate timely availability of
    funds for operational and administrative purposes.



                                               53
      [for new projects: Participating in the design of a simple accounting system that
       produces timely, accurate information for the project according to a chart of
       accounts to be determined.]
      [Supervising the consultant to be engaged for the design of the system.]
      Designing acceptable Financial Monitoring Reports for clearance by the Bank.
      Controlling the quality of withdrawal applications by ensuring that there is sufficient
       supporting documentation and the expenditures being paid for are in line with the
       DCA.
      Production of Expenditure returns to Treasury every tenth of the following month.


REPORTING RELATIONSHIP

The financial manager will report to the [Project Manager/Project Coordinator], who will be
responsible for evaluating performance and recommending whether to confirm renewal
provisions in the financial manager’s contract.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

The finance manager should have, at a minimum, professional certification as a qualified
accountant from an institution such as ACCA, CIMA, or the equivalent, plus 3 years
professional experience as an accountant. Demonstrable experience of having worked for
externally-funded projects (bilateral or multi-lateral) would be highly desirable, but not
required.

PERFORMANCE CRITERIA 12

Financial Management Reports (FMRs) satisfactory to Bank produced by July 31, Oct 31,
    Jan 31, and April 30 each year
Monthly bank account reconciliations produced and accounts in balance
Financial statements produced by August 15 each year (ready for auditing)
Auditor contracted (or NAO audit team confirmed) by July 31 each year
Withdrawal rejection rate did not exceed [5%? 10%] of value of applications
Expenditure returns submitted to Treasury by the 10th of each month
Etc.




12
     Basis for annual contract renewal




                                                54
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 39144

                                                                                                                      MALI
                                                        DEVELOPMENT LEARNING CENTER PROJECT - LIL
                                                      CENTRE DE FORMATION POUR LE DÉVELOPPEMENT - LIL
                                                                       CENTER LOCATION                                                                   MAIN ROADS
                                                                       MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS                                                             RAILROADS
                                                                       PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                 REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                          5°W                                                           0°

                                                                                                                                                                             0           100             200           300 Kilometers

                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                       Chenachane                                                            0          50       100           150           300 Miles
                              MALI                                                                                                                                                                                                              25°N


                                                                           To
                                                                        El Mreîti
                                                                                                                                                                                        ALGERIA

                                                                                 To
                                                                              El Mreîti
                                                                                                                Taoudenni
                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                 Poste Maurice
                                                                                                                                                                                    Cortier




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Abalessa
20°N                                                                                                                                                                         Tessalit                                                           20°N

                                                                                                       TOMBOUCTOU
                                                                                                                                                                                     KIDAL
                       M AU R I TA N I A                                                                               Araouane

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kidal


                                                                                                                                               Gourma
                                                                                                                         Tombouctou            Rharous
                                                                                                                          (Timbuktu)                                   Bourem                GAO
                                                   To
               To                                 Ayun                                                                                                                       Gao
               Kifa                            el ’Atrous                                                       Niafounké
                                                                                    To Néma
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ménaka

                                                                                                                                                                       Ansongo
                                   Nioro-                              Nara               Nampala                                                                                                                     To
15°N                             du-Sahel                                                                       MOPTI                  Douentza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Abala                      15°N
                                                                              O




                                                                                                                                                                                               To Niamey
                                                                         OR




                      Kayes                                                                                      Mopti            Bandiagara
                                                                                      Niono
                                                                       IK




     To
   Goudiry                    K AY E S                                               SÉGOU                                                                                                                NIGER
                                                                       UL




                                                            Kolokani                                                                          To
                                                                                           Ségou                                           Ouahigouya
                                                                  KO




           To                                                                                                   San
        Kédougou                        Kita                             Koulikoro                                           To
                       Kéniéba                                                                                              Nouna

                                                                        BAMAKO             Koutiala
                                                                                                                                               BURKINA
       GDLN Center address:
                              To
       Hamdallaye ACI 2000 Siguiri                                                                                                              FA S O
                                                                          Bougouni
         BP E 2566, Bamako DISTRICT                                                                   Sikasso      To
                                                                                                                  Bobo

                         DE BAMAKO                                     SIKASSO                                  Dioulasso


       GUINEA                                          To
                                                     Kankan
                                                                                                                                                                                                 BENIN
10°N                                                                                              To                                                                                                                                            10°N
                                                                                                Korhogo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Map Design Unit of The World
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bank. The boundaries, colors,
       SIERRA                                                                                                                                        GHANA                                                       denominations and any other
                                                                                                                                                                                        TOGO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 information shown on this map

       LEONE                                                                     CÔTE D’IVOIRE                                                                                                                   do not imply, on the part of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 judgment on the legal status of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a n y t e r r i t o r y, o r a n y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 endorsement or acceptance of
                                     10°W                                                                 5°W                                                           0°                                       such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MARCH 2012
