Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1819 GH
           (Petroleum Refining and Distribution Project)
                               among
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
            GHANAIAN ITALIAN PETROLEUM COMPANY LIMITED
                                and
                     GHANA OIL COMPANY LIMITED
                     Dated September 21, 1987
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  Septebmer  21,  1987  between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION   (the   Association),  GHANAIAN  ITALIAN
PETROLEUM COMPANY LIMITED  (GHAIP)  and  GHANA OIL COMPANY LIMITED
(GOIL).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Development  Credit  Agreement  of even
date herewith between  Republic  of  Ghana  (the Borrower) and the
Association, the  Association  has  agreed  to  make  available to
the  Borrower  an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to
eleven  million  seven  hundred  thousand  Special  Drawing Rights
(SDR 11,700,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that GHAIP and
GOIL agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by two subsidiary  loan  agreements  to  be entered into
firstly between the Borrower  and  GHAIP  and secondly between the
Borrower and GOIL, the proceeds  of  the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement  will  be made available to GHAIP
and GOIL on the terms  and  conditions set forth in the Subsidiary
Page  2
Loan Agreements; and
     WHEREAS GHAIP and GOIL, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development  Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
have  agreed  to  undertake  the  obligations  set  forth  in this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) GHAIP and  GOIL declare their commitment to
the objectives of the Project  as  set  forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and,  to  this  end, shall carry out
the Project with due  diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and petro-
leum practices,  and  shall  provide,  or  cause  to  be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section  and  except  as  the  Association shall otherwise
agree, GHAIP and  GOIL  shall  carry  out  the Project and conduct
their operations in accordance  with project monitoring indicators
satisfactory to the Association.
     Section. 2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. GHAIP and GOIL  shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of the Project
Agreement.
     Section 2.04. GHAIP and GOIL shall duly perform their obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements. Except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise  agree,  GHAIP  and  GOIL  shall  not take or
concur in any  action  which  would  have  the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or
any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) GHAIP and GOIL shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of their  respective  Parts  of the Project, the per-
formance of their respective  obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan  Agreements,  and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  GHAIP and GOIL shall  promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or  threatens to interfere with the
progress of their respective Parts of the Project, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of  the  Credit,  or the performance by GHAIP
and GOIL of their respective  obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
     Section 2.06. GHAIP and GOIL  shall: (i) prepare jointly with
Page  3
the Borrower no later than  December  31,  1987 the plan of action
referred to in Section  3.08  of  the Development Credit Agreement
for the carrying out of such  of the recommendations of the report
of the management  improvement  study  for  GHAIP  and GOIL as the
Association and the Borrower  shall  have  agreed; and (ii) there-
after carry out the  said  recommendations  in accordance with the
plan of action.
     Section 2.07. GHAIP shall,  beginning  with fiscal year 1988,
establish its  refinery  processing  margin  in  accordance with a
schedule and criteria satisfactory to the Association, taking into
account prevailing comparable  international  levels for operating
costs, international  market  prices  for  crude  and products and
GHAIP's financial viability.
     Section 2.08. GHAIP  shall  until  its refinery is completely
rehabilitated under Part A of  the Project continue to maintain in
a  form  and  with  functions  and  staffing  satisfactory  to the
Association the Project Unit established under Credit 1446-GH.
     Section 2.09. GHAIP shall: (i) measure on a regular basis the
oil content and the biological  oxygen  demand (BOD) in the waste-
water of its  Tema  refinery;  (ii)  take  all necessary action to
maintain the level of oil  content  and  BOD in such wastewater at
normally acceptable industry  standards;  and  (iii) provide quar-
terly reports to the  Association  setting  forth data relating to
oil content and BOD levels.
     Section 2.10. GOIL shall: (a) continue to maintain its exist-
ing Project Unit until  completion  of  the activities referred to
under Parts B and C of  the  Project; and (b) employ and assign to
the said Project Unit for a period of at least 2 years an engineer
with qualifications and  experience  satisfactory  to the Associa-
tion.
     Section 2.11. GHAIP  and  GOIL  shall  each:  (i) prepare and
furnish to the  Association  no  later  than  December  31, 1987 a
corporate  plan  for  1988-90  satisfactory  to  the  Association;
(ii) conclude a performance  agreement  with the Borrower based on
the said corporate  plan  by  June  30,  1988;  and (iii) promptly
thereafter carry out the provisions of the said agreement.
                         ARTICLE III
            Management and Operations of GHAIP and GOIL
     Section 3.01. GHAIP and GOIL  shall carry on their respective
operations and conduct their respective affairs in accordance with
sound administrative, financial,  engineering and petroleum indus-
try practices under the  supervision  of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. GHAIP and GOIL  shall  at all times operate and
maintain their respective  plant,  machinery,  equipment and other
property, and from  time  to  time,  promptly  as needed, make all
necessary repairs and  renewals  thereof,  all  in accordance with
sound engineering, financial and petroleum industry practices.
     Section 3.03. GHAIP and GOIL shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) GHAIP  and  GOIL shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices their respective operations and financial condition.
Page  4
     (b)   GHAIP and GOIL shall:
          (i)  have their records,  accounts  and financial state-
               ments (balance  sheets,  statements  of  income and
               expenses and  related  statements)  for each fiscal
               year audited, in accordance with appropriate audit-
               ing principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of  each  such  year:  (A)  certified copies of
               their financial  statements  for  such  year  as so
               audited, and (B) the  report  of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, GHAIP and GOIL shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section, separate  records  and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain,  until  at   least   one   year  after  the
               Association has received  the  audit report for the
               fiscal year in which  the  last withdrawal from the
               Credit Account  was  made,  all records (contracts,
               orders,  invoices,   bills,   receipts   and  other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audit  referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that  the report thereof contains,
               in respect of  such  separate  accounts, a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds
               of  the  Credit   withdrawn   in  respect  of  such
               expenditures were used  for  the purposes for which
               they were provided.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, GHAIP shall not incur any  debt, unless the net revenues of
GHAIP for the fiscal year  immediately  preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later  twelve-month  period ended prior to the
date of such incurrence,  whichever  is  the  greater, shall be at
least 1.4 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of
GHAIP for 1988 and at  lest  1.5  times the estimated maximum debt
service requirements of GHAIP  for  any  succeeding fiscal year on
all debt of GHAIP, including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness of GHAIP
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date agreement providing for such
Page  5
               guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to  operations  adjusted  to  take  account of
                    GHAIP's processing  margins  in  effect at the
                    time of  the  incurrence  of  debt even though
                    they were  not  in  effect  during the twelve-
                    month period to which such revenues relate and
                    net non-operating income; and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including   administration,   adequate   main-
                    tenance, taxes and payments  in lieu of taxes,
                    but  excluding   provision  for  depreciation,
                    other non-cash operating  charges and interest
                    and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, GHAIP shall maintain a  ratio  of current assets to current
liabilities of not less than  1.0  through  1988 and not less than
1.1 thereafter.
     (b)  Before October 1  in  each  of  its  fiscal years, GHAIP
shall, on the  basis  of  forecasts  prepared  by GHAIP and satis-
factory to  the  Association,  review  whether  it  would meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  in respect of such year
and the  next  following  fiscal  year  and  shall  furnish to the
Association the results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows  that  GHAIP would not meet the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for the GHAIP's fiscal
years covered by such review, GHAIP shall promptly take all neces-
sary measures in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "current  assets"  means  cash, all assets
               which could in the  ordinary  course of business be
               converted into cash within twelve months, including
               accounts receivable,  marketable securities, inven-
               tories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
               operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
         (ii)  The term "current  liabilities"  means all liabili-
Page  6
               ties which will  become  due  and  payable or could
               under circumstances  then  existing  be  called for
               payment within  twelve  months,  including accounts
               payable, customer  advances,  debt service require-
               ments, taxes and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes, and
               dividends.
        (iii)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section  4.04.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, GHAIP shall not, throughout  the period ending December 31,
1990, declare any  dividend  or  make  any other distribution with
respect to its share capital.
     Section 4.05. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, GOIL shall not incur  any  debt, unless the net revenues of
GOIL for fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such incur-
rence or for a later  twelve-month  period ended prior to the date
of such incurrence, whichever  is  the  greater, shall be at least
1.5 times the estimated maximum  debt service requirements of GOIL
for any succeeding fiscal year on  all debt of GOIL, including the
debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of GOIL
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to  operations  adjusted  to  take  account of
                    GOIL's  distribution  margins  and  prices  in
                    effect at the time  of  the incurrence of debt
                    even though they were not in effect during the
                    twelve-month  period  to  which  such revenues
                    relate and net non-operating income; and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including  administration,   adequate  mainte-
                    nance, taxes and  payments  in  lieu of taxes,
                    but  excluding   provision  for  depreciation,
                    other non-cash operating  charges and interest
                    and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
Page  7
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such rate, on the  basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section 4.06. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, GOIL shall maintain  a  ratio  of current assets to current
liabilities of not less than 1.1 in 1988 and thereafter.
     (b)  Before October  1  in  each  of  its  fiscal years, GOIL
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by GOIL and satisfactory
to the Association, review whether  it would meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a)  in  respect  of such year and the next
following fiscal year  and  shall  furnish  to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  GOIL would not meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  for GOIL's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  GOIL  shall  promptly take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "current  assets"  means  cash, all assets
               which could in the  ordinary  course of business be
               converted into cash within twelve months, including
               accounts receivable,  marketable securities, inven-
               tories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
               operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
         (ii)  The term "current  liabilities"  means all liabili-
               ties which will  become  due  and  payable or could
               under circumstances  then  existing  be  called for
               payment within  twelve  months,  including accounts
               payable, customer  advances,  debt service require-
               ments, taxes and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes, and
               dividends.
        (iii)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any),  of, and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section 4.07. GHAIP and  GOIL  shall review with the Associa-
tion their  respective  three-year  rolling  investment program no
later than March 31 in each year of the Project.
Page  8
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of GHAIP  and  GOIL  thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
GHAIP and GOIL of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For GHAIP:
          The Managing Director
          Ghanaian Italian Petroleum Company Limited
          P.O. Box 599
          Tema
          Ghana
     Cable address:                         Telex:
                GHAIP                         2005
                Tema                          2011
     For GOIL
Page  9
          The Managing Director
          Ghana Oil Company Limited
          P.O. Box 3183
          Accra
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                GOIL                          9742151
                Accra
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of GHAIP and  GOIL may be taken or executed by
the Managing Director or such other  person or persons as GHAIP or
GOIL, as the case may  be,  shall  designate in writing, and GHAIP
and GOIL shall furnish  to  the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and  the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each
such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    GHANAIAN ITALIAN PETROLEUM COMPANY LIMITED
                    By /s/ Eric Otoo
                                         Authorized Representative
                    GHANA OIL COMPANY LIMITED
                    By /s/ Eric Otoo
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Page  10
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Works for Parts A and  B  (1)  of the Project and specialized
equipment may be procured under  contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised  locally,  in accordance with pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Items or groups of items  estimated to cost an amount equiva-
lent to $50,000 or less  per  contract,  up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the  equivalent  of  $500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.   With the  prior  agreement  of  the  Association  and for the
purposes of  standardization,  additional  items  of  equipment or
spare parts compatible with existing equipment may be purchased by
direct contracting from  the  original  supplier  of such existing
equipment in accordance with paragraph 3.5 (b) of the Guidelines.
4.   Goods of a proprietary nature obtainable from one source may,
with the prior agreement of the Association, be procured by direct
contracting  from  that  source   in  accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000  or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are  to  be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to paragraph 2  (d) of said Appendix shall be
furnished to the  Association  prior  to  the  making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are  to  be  made  out  of  a  Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order  to  assist  GHAIP  and  GOIL  in  carrying  out the
Page  11
Project, GHAIP and GOIL  shall  employ consultants (including con-
sultants  for  design,   engineering,  procurement,  construction,
supervision and  project  management)  whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and  conditions  of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the  Association.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
