Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1819 GH
           (Petroleum Refining and Distribution Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 21, 1987
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1819 GH
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  21,  1987,  between  REPUBLIC OF
GHANA (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  Part A of the Project  will  be carried out by GHAIP and
Parts B and C of the Project  will be carried out by GOIL with the
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the
Borrower will make available to  GHAIP and GOIL, respectively, the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
     (C)  the  Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  the European
Investment Bank (EIB) a  credit  in  an amount equivalent to about
$6,500,000 to assist in  financing  Part  A  of the Project on the
Page  2
terms and conditions set forth in  an agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EIB;
     (D)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the Federal Republic
of Germany through Kreditanstalt  fur  Wiederaufbau (KfW) a credit
in an amount  equivalent  to  about  16  million  deutsche mark to
assist in  financing  Part  B  of  the  Project  on  the terms and
conditions set forth in  an  agreement  to be entered into between
the Borrower and KfW; and
     WHEREAS the Association has  agreed,  on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of even  date  herewith between the Association,
GHAIP and GOIL;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association, GHAIP and GOIL of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "GHAIP Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and  GHAIP  pursuant to
Section  3.O1 (b) of  this  Agreement,  as the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all schedules to the
GHAIP Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (c)  "GOIL Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means the agreement to
be entered into between the  Borrower and GOIL pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  to  the GOIL
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (d)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreements"  mean  the GHAIP Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and the GOIL Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (e)  "GHAIP" means  the  Ghanaian  Italian  Petroleum Company
Limited;
     (f)  "GOIL" means the Ghana Oil Company Limited;
     (g)  "MFP" means the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for
fuel and power;
     (h)  "VLTC"  means  the  Volta  Lake  Transportation  Company
Limited;
     (i)  "Special Accounts"  means  the  accounts  referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (j)  "Project" means with respect  to:  (i)  GHAIP, Part A of
the Project, and (ii) GOIL, Parts B and C of the Project.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  3
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to  eleven  million  seven  hundred  thousand  Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 11,700,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars  two special accounts in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  3 to this
Agreement. One of the  Special  Accounts  shall be used for expen-
ditures made under  the  Project  by  GHAIP  and the other Special
Account shall be used for  expenditures  made under the Project by
GOIL.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1991 or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment  charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.O7. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Credit in  semiannual  installments  payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November  15,  1997, and ending May 15,
2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on
May 15, 2007 shall be one-half of  one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and
one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. GHAIP (for Part A of the Project) and GOIL (for
Parts B and C of the Project) are designated as representatives of
the Borrower for the  purposes  of  taking  any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.O2 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Page  4
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause  GHAIP  and  GOIL  to perform in accordance
with the provisions of  the  Project Agreement all the obligations
of GHAIP and GOIL therein  set  forth,  shall take and cause to be
taken all action,  including  the  provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources,  necessary  or appropriate to enable
GHAIP and GOIL to perform such  obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken  any  action  which  would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend the  proceeds of the Credit to
GHAIP and GOIL under two subsidiary loan agreements, the first  to
be entered into between the Borrower  and GHAIP, and the second to
be entered into between  the  Borrower  and  GOIL, under terms and
conditions which shall have been  approved by the Association. The
said terms and conditions shall  include an interest rate equal to
1.1 times the prevailing  interest  rate applicable to Bank Loans,
repayment of principal over a period of 15 years including a grace
period  of  3  years  and   the  assumption  by  GHAIP  and  GOIL,
respectively,  of  the  risk  of  fluctuations  in  the  value  of
currencies so relent to them.
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary Loan  Agreements  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the Borrower  and  the  Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the  Credit,  and  except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports,  maintenance  and   land  acquisition,  respectively)  in
respect of Part A of  the  Project  shall be carried out by GHAIP,
and in respect of Parts B  and  C  of the Project shall be carried
out by GOIL pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04.  The  Borrower  shall,  by  December  31, 1987,
introduce a  new  petroleum  pricing  system  satisfactory  to the
Association.
     Section  3.05.  The  Borrower  shall  cause  all  outstanding
arrears of debt between GOIL  and other state-owned enterprises to
be settled in  accordance  with  a  timetable  satisfactory to the
Association.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:  (i) prepare a report which
shall  evaluate  the  socio-economic   impact  of  the  facilities
provided under Part  C  (2)  of  the  Project on farmers' reseller
outlets in the rural  areas;  and  (ii)  furnish the report to the
Association for  its  review  no  later  than  the  earlier of the
following dates, namely, a date  two  months after the date of the
report's completion or June 30, 1989.
     Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower  shall  cause VLTC and GOIL to
enter into an agreement  satisfactory  to the Association no later
than December 31, 1987, for  the  bulk transport by the Volta Lake
Page  5
of GOIL's petroleum products.
     (b)  The Borrower shall cause  VLTC  to provide no later than
December 31, 1989, the water-side facilities (petroleum barges and
jetties) required for movement of  petroleum products on the Volta
Lake.
     Section 3.08. The  Borrower  shall:  (i)  jointly review with
the Association the report of the management improvement study for
GHAIP and GOIL commissioned  by  the  Borrower;  and (ii) no later
than December 31, 1987: (A) prepare  jointly with GHAIP and GOIL a
plan of action satisfactory  to  the  Association for the carrying
out of such  of  the  recommendations  of  the  said report as the
Association and the Borrower shall have agreed; and (B) furnish to
the Association  the  said  plan  of  action.  The  Borrower shall
thereafter cause the agreed  recommendations  to be carried out in
accordance with the plan of action.
     Section 3.09. The Borrower shall ensure that with effect from
fiscal year 1988, GHAIP establishes its refinery processing margin
in accordance with  a  schedule  and  criteria satisfactory to the
Association.
     Section 3.10. The  Borrower  undertakes to maintain petroleum
prices at or above international petroleum price levels.
     Section 3.11. The  Borrower  shall  by  January 1, 1988 bring
into effect the  final  arrangements  for  the bulk procurement of
crude oil and bulk marketing  of petroleum products referred to in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 4.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  GHAIP and GOIL shall have failed to perform any of their
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which  shall  make  it  improbable that GHAIP or
GOIL will be able  to  perform  their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The  regulations  of  GHAIP  or  GOIL  shall  have  been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability  of  GHAIP or GOIL to perform
any of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of GHAIP or GOIL  or  for  the suspension of their respective
operations.
     (e)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  The right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of any grant  or  loan or credit made
                    to  the  Borrower  for  the  financing  of the
                    Project shall  have  been suspended, cancelled
                    or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                    the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
                    or
               (B)  any such loan or  credit shall have become due
                    and  payable  prior  to  the  agreed  maturity
                    thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
Page  6
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the   Association   that:   (A)   such  suspension,
               cancellation,  termination  or  prematuring  is not
               caused by the  failure  of  the Borrower to perform
               any of its  obligations  under  such agreement; and
               (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
               the  Borrower  from  other  sources  on  terms  and
               conditions consistent with  the  obligations of the
               Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 4.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.Ol  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower;
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the event specified in paragraph  (e) (i) (B) of Section
4.01 of this  Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.O1. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.O1 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  the GHAIP Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and GHAIP;
     (b)  the GOIL Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and GOIL;
     (c)  an arrangement,  satisfactory  to  the  Association, has
been made for the bulk procurement of crude oil and bulk marketing
of petroleum products;
     (d)  a Managing  Director  has  been  appointed  at GOIL with
qualifications and experience in oil marketing; and
     (e)  establishment  of  a  petroleum  pricing  system, satis-
factory to the Association, which  is based on the recommendations
of the pricing study commissioned by the Borrower.
     Section  5.O2.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.O2 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by GHAIP and GOIL  and  is legally binding upon GHAIP and
GOIL in accordance with its terms;
     (b)  that the GHAIP Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by  the  Borrower  and GHAIP and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and  GHAIP in accordance with its terms;
and
     (c)  that the GOIL  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by  the  Borrower  and  GOIL and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and GOIL in accordance with its terms.
     Section 5.O3. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
l2.O4 of the General Conditions.
Page  7
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.O1. The  PNDC  Secretary  for  Finance and Economic
Planning is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section ll.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section ll.Ol of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          PNDC Secretary for Finance
             and Economic Planning
          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
          P.O. Box M.40
          Accra, Ghana
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECONOMICON                           2205 MIFA EPGH
               Accra
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           44OO98 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                    By /s/ Eric Otoo
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
Page  8
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works:
     (a)  Part A of the           235,000)
          Project                        )
                                         )       100%
                                         )
     (b)  Parts B and C           625,000)
          of the Project                 )
(2)  Equipment and
     materials:
     (a)  Part A of the           545,000)
          Project                        )       100% of foreign
                                         )       expenditures
     (b)  Parts B and C         8,425,000)
          of the Project                 )
(3)  Consultants'
     services and
     Project Management:
     (a)  Part A of               310,000)
          the Project                    )
                                         )       100%
     (b)  Parts B and C           155,000)
          of the Project                 )
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)  Training for Part C           235,000       100%
     of the Project
(5)  Unallocated                 1,170,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL                 11,700,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of   this   Schedule  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures  in  the  currency of any country
other than that of  the  Borrower  for  goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate  amount  not  exceeding  an amount
equivalent to SDR 625,000,  may  be  made in respect of Categories
(2) (a) and (3) (a)  on  account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after January 1, 1987.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
Page  9
     The objectives of  the  Project  are:  (i) to rationalize the
Borrower's  investment  plan   in   the   petroleum  refinery  and
distribution subsector;  (ii)  to  increase  the  reliability, and
reduce the cost, of supply  and distribution of petroleum products
in the country; (iii) to  further  reduce oil pollution related to
GHAIP's operations at Tema; (iv)  to  assist the bulk transport of
petroleum products via the  Volta  Lake  to the Northern and Upper
Regions of Ghana and to  neighboring countries; (v) to improve the
movement of agricultural  products  in  the  remote areas; (vi) to
counter deforestation with the  increased availability of kerosene
and  liquified  petroleum  gas  (LPG);  (vii)  to  restructure the
operating/earning  basis   of   GHAIP's   Tema   refinery  and  to
rationalize  responsibility  for   bulk   marketing  of  petroleum
products; and (viii) to strengthen GHAIP and GOIL by ensuring that
they operate on a commercial basis.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     Rehabilitation of  GHAIP's  refinery  and  (i) acquisition of
equipment for offsite  facilities,  utility  systems, LPG handling
facilities, product  shipping  facilities,  and distillation unit;
and (ii) acquisition of vehicles.
Part B:
1.   Rehabilitation  of  GOIL's  petroleum  storage  facilities at
Takoradi and Kumasi.
2.   Construction and  equipping  of  the  following facilities at
Akosombo and  Buipe:  (i)  storage  tanks;  (ii)  product transfer
facilities; and (iii)  waterside  facilities  (supply of petroleum
barges and construction of jetty facilities).
3.   Rehabilitation of GOIL's retail outlets network.
Part C:
1.   Expansion  of  GOIL's  LPG  storage  and  filling  facilities
including the construction of  about  3 new plants and acquisition
of materials, equipment and vehicles.
2.   Construction of facilities and equipment for farmers' service
reseller  outlets  of  petroleum   products;  and  acquisition  of
vehicles for Project work.
3.   The carrying out of a program satisfactory to the Association
for the training of  GOIL's  managerial and operational personnel,
and provision to GOIL of computer facilities.
                           *     *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
Page  10
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  the following
amounts to be withdrawn from  the  Credit Account and deposited in
the Special Accounts pursuant to  paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule
equivalent to: (i) $200,000 with respect to the Special Account to
be used by GHAIP for expenditures made by GHAIP under the Project;
and (ii) $750,000 with respect  to  the Special Account to be used
by GOIL for expenditures made by GOIL under the Project.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of a  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits  shall  be  withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from  the  Credit  Account  under  the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of a Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other  evidence  as  the  Association  shall  reasonably  request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into  a Special Account shall be made
by the Association when  either  of the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the eligible Categories less the amount of
               any outstanding special  commitment entered into by
               the Association  pursuant  to  Section  5.02 of the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
Page  11
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of  a  Special  Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount  outstanding  in  a  Special  Account  will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
