Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24937
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(COFN-02350; COFN-02310; IDA-21360; IDA-21361)
ON OCTOBER 23, 2002
CREDITS/GRANTS
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$148.85 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR
THE TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
OCTOBER 23, 2002
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 04/30/2002)
Currency Unit = Rwandese Franc (FRW)
RWF1 = US$ 0.002128
US$ 1 = FRW437
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                  -Country Assistance Strategy
DPC                  -General Directorate of Roads and Bridges
DRC                  -Democratic Republic of Congo
EDF                  -European Development Fund
EEC                  -European Economic Community
EU                   -European Union
ERR                  -Economic Rate of Return
FRG                  -Federal Republic of Germany
FRW                  -Rwandese Franc
GDP                  -Gross Domestic Product
GOR                  -Gpvemment of Rwanda
ICR                  -Implementation Completion Report
IDA                  -International Develoment Association
MINITRANSCO          -Ministry of Transport and Communications
MINITRAPE            -Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Water
NPV                  -Net Present Value
OPEC                 -Orginaization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
SAR                  -Staff Appraisal Report
SC                   -Supplemenatal Credit
SDC                  -Swiss Development Corporation
SME                  -Small and Medium Enterprises
TSP                  -Transport Sector Project
VOC                  -Vehicle operating Cost
Vice President:  Calliso E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager/Director:  Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Kingson Khan Apara



RWANDA
TRANSPORT SECrOR PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              13
6. Sustainability                                                                  15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 18
9. Partner Comments                                                                19
10. Additional Information                                                        21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              35
Annex 8.The Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                     36






Project ID: P002238                                     Project Name: TRANSPORT SECTOR
Team Leader: Kingson Khan Apara                         | TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: October 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: TRANSPORT SECTOR                             LIC/TFNumber: COFN-02350;
COFN-023 10;
IDA-21360;
IDA-21361
Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF RWANDA                                 Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Roads & highways (100%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/06/1989                            Effective: 03/29/1991         03/29/1991
Appraisal:  06/16/1989                               MTR:                      06/01/1995
Approval:  05/22/1990                             Closing: 06/30/1997         04/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/TBD
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Calliso E. Madavo.                       Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Emmanuel Mbi                             Paul Iselman
Sector Manager:      Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard              Marc Blanc
Team Leader at ICR:  Kingson Khan Apara                       Bengt Bostrom
ICR Primary Author:  Kingson Khan Apara; Ephrem
Asebe
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Introduction: In the absence of an introductory paragraph in the ICR template, this section provides the
background and the context that characterized project design and implementation. A good part of the
assessment in this ICR hinges on these two elements.
Background: The Transport Sector Project (TSP), whose initial total cost was US$148.85 million, was to
be financed jointly by the International Development Association-IDA (30%), four other co-financiers
(34%), and the Government, including the road fund (36%). IDA's Credit became effective on March 29,
1991. PSRs show that implementation progressed satisfactorily till the end of 1993, but project activities
were temporarily suspended for close to two years due to lack of counterpart funds and the civil war that
culminated in the 1994 Genocide. In May 1995 the project was restructured during a mnid-term review,
mainly to align implementation to post-war circumstances. In 1997 a Supplementary Credit in the amount
of SDR 33.09 million (US$45 million equivalent) was approved by the Board as IDA's additional
contribution to bridge a financing gap resulting from the withdrawal of three of the four co-financiers, and
the Government's inability to meet its own financial contribution. At the same time the closing date of the
project was extended from June 30, 1997 to June 30, 2000. The closing date was subsequently extended
twice to December 31, 2001 and to April 30,2002.
Context: The objectives, design, implementation, and achievements of the TSP are assessed in the context
of Rwanda's socioeconomic situation from 1987 to 2002, a periods which coincides with the project's
cycle:
Phase 1 (1987-1994): The country was faced with a general economic decline, beginning in 1987. Per
capita income dropped by 23% within one year, from a peak of $380 in 1987 to $ 310 in 1988, and to
$250 by 1993. In 1994 alone the GDP fell drastically by about 50% of its 1990 level, and per capita
income was estimated at an unprecedented low level of US$150. Nonetheless, project implementation
progressed satisfactorily till the end of 1993. The social strife and the ensuing genocide that took place
in 1994 dealt a devastating blow on the project, which incurred a huge loss of its assets, an
irrecoverable dislocation of project staff, and a temporary arrest of its activities during and
immediately following the genocide.
Phase 2 (1995-1997): The country embarked on post-war emergency reconstruction under a new
Government established in late 1994. There was an immediate and responsive shift in the Bank's
assistance strategy to the country, including the restructuring of the Bank's on-going portfolio of 12
projects, including the TSP, to adapt its relevance to the new situation of the country. Specifically, the
TSP was structured twice in this period: in May 1995 to rescue the project from remaining a problem
project, and placing it back on the path of satisfactory implementation, and in November 1997
essentially to bridge a financial gap resulting from the withdrawal of some co-financiers.
Phase 3 (1998-2002): The Government's emphasis during this phase has been placed on national
integration and economic consolidation, with development effort placed in a medium and long-term
perspective, and guided by two strategic instruments: the Country's Vision 2020 and its
PRSP. The increased awareness with thin the Government resulting from the preparation of these two
instruments facilitated key reforms targeted by the project. Consequently, project activities actually
intensified, accounting for the satisfactory rating portrayed in both the PSRs and in this report.
Assessment of Initial Project Objectives.
Initial project objectives as defined in the 1990 SAR (Report No. 8386-RW) were to: (i) protect capital
investment in the main roads through improved maintenance; (ii) strengthen institutions in the sector
through better planning and resource mobilization; (iii) promote communal development and better
economic integration through improved communal roads; (iv) improve access to the Kibuye prefecture; (v)
-2-



support lake transport; and (vi) improve vehicle safety. These objectives are assessed essentially on the
basis of (i) clarity and importance to the Government; (ii) responsiveness to country circumstances; (iii)
complexity; and (iv) risks.
Clarity and importance to the Government: Objectives fitted well into the Government's Statement of
Transport Policy of February 8, 1990, which led emphasis on : (i) increased accessibility internally
and externally; (ii) reduced transport costs both through the provision of infrastructure and
transportation services; and (iii) improved management of public and private operators. The Transport
Policy Statement, together with its accompanying action plan, was based on and summarized the
Government's strategies under the fourth five-year development plan for roads and transport The
design of TSP prioritized and defined a time- and resource-bound program which was seen as an
integral part of the Government's five-year development plan. It's introduction of road user levies as
altemative private sector-led sources of financing to road maintenance was of particular importance to
the Govemment. Clearly, project objectives were a bit too many and too specific. A more general
formulation would have offered greater flexibility, particularly in responding to the changed
socioeconomic context of the country as described above. Also, its objectives focused only on
investments and institutional strengthening,, although the project was meant to be a transport
sector-wide operation ( SAR, page 19). Key aspects relating to the improvement of transport services
were left out.
Responsiveness to country circumstances: Progress achieved under the Sixth Highway Project, which
overlapped with the new project, provided a good measurement of the Government's capacity and
performance.Overall, the Government is said to have been well perceived by the donor community, as
demonstrated by the wide-ranging co-financing approach adopted initially by the TSP, and by the high
level of foreign assistance to Rwanda at that time. Nonetheless, weakness in the Government's
administrative and financial management capacity was recognized and appropriate provision made for
technical assistance to support the implementation of the TSP. The general view of persons involved in
the initial stages of the project is that the civil war and the ensuing Genocide mentioned above were not
evident at the time of project preparation. This is confirmed by the absence in available project
documentation, including the SAR and Board minutes, of any reference to these factors.
Complexity: The scope and scale of the project as portrayed in the objectives seemed justified at the
time of project preparation, notably by the satisfactory implementation of the preceding Sixth Highway
Project and the high performance of the Government. The Rwandan project appeared less complex than
sinilar projects in the region, notably those of Cameroon, Senegal and Cote d'Ivoire. Activities under
the Rwandan TSP were limited to the road sub-sector which accounts for most of the country's
transport needs, whereas these other projects go beyond the road sector to embrace investment and
structural issues on all modes of transport.
Risks: The main risks documented in the SAR were of a technical nature, and related to cost overruns
on the Gitarama-Kibuye Road, delays in the implementation of the road maintenance program, and cost
increases and delays in the communal roads pilot program. The withdrawal of three of the co-financiers
during implementation was a direct consequence of the Genocide which, as indicated above, was not
evident during project preparation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The ICR needed to establish if project objectives were actually revised during the two post-war
restructuring. According to the aide-memoire of the first restructuring mission conducted in May 1995,
both Bank and Govemment representatives concluded that this restructuring had not affected project
objectives. Both parties agreed that project activities would be concentrated on a set of priority areas best
suited to the post-war situation of Rwanda.
The second restructuring which was approved by the Board in November 1997 as part of the Supplemental
Credit package adopted the same objectives as in 1995 (MOP Para. 19, page 5), but emphasized that the
- 3-



"objectives were refocused to better address the changed country conditions and the critical needs identified
post-war". The "refocused" objectives as stated in both documents were to achieve (i) the completion of the
Gitarama-Kibuye road to reduce transport costs for farmers, mainly coffee and tea farmners, and improve
the integration of the Kibuye Prefecture into the rest of the region; (ii) better management of the sector, (iii)
the transfonnation of the National Road Fund by setting up a new Road Maintenance Fund, independently
managed by a board composed mainly of road users, and aimed at effectively collecting and allocating
funds to priority needs and facilitating the payment of works to be executed by private entrepreneurs,
including local SMEs; (iv) better road safety, especially in the populated area of Kigali where road
accidents had reached a crisis level (see figures in Annex 1).
Overall, it can be said that project objectives remained intact following the two restructuring, despite the
reduction in the scope and scale of the project. An original component to "irnprove lake transport" was
dropped, but it had no consequence on the overall objectives. According to the SAR (paragraph 1.19, page
6) improved lake transport was meant to serve communities along the Kivu lake.The road rehabilitation
introduced under the Supplemental Credit was of benefit to the same communities as it concentrated largely
on roads that run along the same lake, from Gisenyi through Kibuye to Cyangugu and Kisovu.
In light of the foregoing, any reference to project objectives in the rest of the ICR should be taken to
mean the "refocused " objectives as defined in this Section.
Although the last restructuring of the project in November 1997 preceded the CAS by 8 months (the CAS
was adopted by the Board on April 7, 1998), its refocused objectives clearly match IDA's post-war lending
strategy to Rwanda which made a strong case for "exceptional assistance to overcome the legacies of
genocide and make a transition to peace and development".
3.3 Original Components:
The original project components included a comprehensive program of road reconstruction and
maintenance activities and institutional strengthening, and transport improvements. The Sector Program
covered: (i) participation with co-financing agencies in upgrading and paving 75.5 km of the
Gitarama-Kibyue Road (US$47.03 million); (ii) a pilot project for the rehabilitation and maintenance of
600 km of communal roads (US$12.07 million); (iii) support to a four-year national road maintenance
program (US$29.48 million for 1991-1994); (iv) institution building, technical assistance, and professional
training for the Ministry of Public Works and Energy (vNITRAPE) and the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MINITRANSCO) and road contractors (US$3.78 million); and (v) a transport
improvement program covering lake transport, and vehicle inspection/road safety (US$3.63 million).
Project design is rated satisfactorily in terms of component packaging. The weakness in the Government's
administrative and financial management capacity was recognized and appropriate provision made for
technical assistance to augment existing capacity. The project design also took into account the lessons did
experiences of past IDA-financed projects that had similar components of road maintenance and
reconstruction of civil works. In particular, the design built on the satisfactory accomplishments of the
Sixth Highway Project, but also recognized the shortcomings of the Second and the Fourth Highway
Projects which had recorded extremely poor results in road works. It sought to limit this risk by introducing
procurement arrangements that took into account the absorption capacities of the sector. It also sought
better results by making progress on road maintenance a condition of IDA disbursements
3.4 Revised Components:
The table below illustrates the extent to which original components were revised during the
implementation period (last column), as well as changes in resource allocation after the second
restructuring in 1997 and at project closing in April 2002.
-4-



Revisions on Project components and Acc mpanying A locations
Component                     Initial      Incremental  Final        Component Status After
Allocation   Credit by    Allocaton    Second Restructuring
In SAR       IDA          (2002)
(1989)**     (1997
A. Transport Component
Lake transport                          2.89        0.00          0.00 Component Dropped
due to lack of financing.
Vehicle inspection & safety             2.04        2.50          3.94 Component maintained
with emphasis on Kigali
which was facing
increasing accidents
B. Road Component
Upgrade and paving                     63.9         20.0         84.20 Component maintained
Gitarama-Kibuye road                                                  but geometric
charactetistics reduced
to limit costs
Routine and periodic Road              38.2          8.8         8.10* Component down sized
maintenance                                                             d limited to Kigali
urban roads, due to
fmancing shortfalls from
o-fianciers' withdrawal
d the dislocation of the
ad fund by the war.
(routine maintenance
sumed in the last year
f the project, after the
-establishment of the
road fund).
Road equipment/laboratory support      12.33        0.00          5.78 Component down sized
in light of with post-war
priorities
Conmunal Road rehabilitation using      5.4         8.50          3.86 Component maintained
SMEs and force account                                                 mphasis on enhancing
st-war revival of
agricultural production;
coffee & tea export,
settlement and
integration
Communal Roads/feeder                  10.7         0.00         13.32 Component maintained
rehabilitation                                                          ith added emphasis on
__ __ __ __ __ __ _ __ __ _  _S_ SME  development
Institutional Development              5.13         2.00         2.81 Component Maintained
Cash Indemnities to persons affected                             1.83  ot foreseen in SAR
by road works                              I           I
Total Project Cost                 148.85        45.00         124.08
* Includes $6.44 (FRW 2.9 bilfion) from road fund in the last year of the project
** Includes contingencies
According to the aide-memoire of the 1995 restructuring mission, the Bank team and the borrower
"agreed that project activities would be concentrated on a set of priority areas best suited to the post-war
situation of Rwanda". The MOP for the Supplemental Credit identified these priority areas in terms of the
-5-



following components: (i) upgrading and paving of the remaining critical 40 km section of the
Gitarama-Kibuye Road (US$23 million, 51% of project cost) to realize the full benefits of improving this
main road link; (ii) rehabilitation and maintenance by Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) of 550 km of
secondary/feeder communal roads linked to the Gitarama-Kibuye Road (US$8.5 million, 19%); (iii)
rehabilitation and maintenance by SMEs of 80 km of urban roads in the capital city of Kigali (US$8.8
million,19.6 % of project cost) mainly to improve drainage systems and to support the privatization of
road maintenance; (iv) acquisition and installation of equipment for measurement and control of vehicle
axle load, traffic signals, and markings (US$2.5 million, 5.5% of project cost); (v) technical assistance
(US$2.0 million, 4.5% of project cost for design and supervision of works; on-the-job training of small-
and medium-scale private road construction and maintenance contractors; establishment of procedures,
sanctions, and training for enforcement of the vehicle axle load control and updating of road safety
regulations; and country-wide sensitization campaigns for road safety; and (vi) operating costs (US$0.2
million 0.4%) for the purchase of office supplies and consumables and the costs related to project staff
travel.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall, quality at entry was satisfactory. Both the original and revised projects were broadly aligned to the
Government's priorities and to the Bank's assistance strategy, as explained in Paragraphs 3.1 and 3.2
above. Both the original and revised designs placed special emphasis on environmental issues related to the
reconstruction of the Gitarama-Kibuye Road. For example, an expenditure of US$4.07 was programmed
for mitigating the environmental irnpact of the road works on this road, notably including the transport of
the surplus excavation material to properly selected deposit sites. As indicated earlier, appropriate technical
assistance support was built into the project to bridge potential implementation gaps.
Cash indemnities to persons affected by road works, though not included in the SAR, were identified during
implementation and measures taken to effect payment. At the time of the ICR, over 90 % of these costs had
been paid in cash from the Government budget. The Bank team has made it clear to the Borrower that a
future Bank-financed project in the sector would be subjected to the prior payment of the remaining amount
(ICR mission aide-memoire dated June 16, 2002).
Under the original design, the Government was to contribute as high as 36.3 % of the project cost of
$148.85 million. Barely two years following project effectiveness, the Government was unable to meet is
financing obligations. The lack of counterpart funding eventually led to a temporary suspension of the
project in 1994.
The project has not been reviewed by the QAG. Nonetheless, it has been reviewed and commented upon by
OED in the context of Rwanda's Country Assistance Evaluation (Vandendries Memo dated July 17 2002).
According to OED's CAE, "the general impression tends to be positive and suggestive that the
project has been reasonably successful, despite very trying country conditions".
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The timely restructuring of the project to cope with post-war challenges and the additional support from
IDA's Supplemental Credit, helped reverse prewar trends and placed the project on a successful
implementation path ( Prewar PSR ratings progressively deteriorated from 1993 as shown in the table
below). The positive outcome of these remedial actions is evidenced by the satisfactory PSR ratings from
1996, which appear to be consistent with increased physical achievements observed on the ground at the
end of the project. It is worth noting that despite the satisfactory ratings observed from 1990 to 1993, the
- 6 -



project did not achieve much on the ground. At the time of the second restructuring in 1997, it was
estimated that only 20% of the project had been executed before the 1994 genocide (MOP page 3,
paragraph 11).
Average yearl PSR Ratings
Year                   Average IP Rating     Average DO Rating      Remarks
19990                  1                     1                     Year's only rating
1991                  2                      2                     Year's only rating
1992                   1.75                  2                     Year's average rating
1993                  3                      2                     Year's average rating
1994                  HU                     HU_                   Year's worst rating
1995                  HU                     HU                     Year's worst rating
1996-2002             S_                     S_                     Year's average rating
The ICR rates the overall achievement of project objectives as satisfactory. This rating, which is consistent
with OED's assessment as indicated in Paragraph 3.5 above, is based on the project's accomplishments at
the time of the ICR. Assessment is based on information collected from a number of sources, including ICR
field trips, an impact assessment of the TSP conducted a few months prior to its closing (copy available in
project files), as well as interviews of some beneficiaries and stakeholders:
Improved Voluntary resettlement, social cohesion, and re-establishment of agriculture activities in
Kibuye area
This outcome was to be achieved through road improvements in the Western and North-Western parts of
the country, facing the greatest challenges of post-war resettlement. Based on data from the Rwanda
Development Indicators, 2001, and declarations by vehicle operators and travelers, this outcome is
assessed satisfactorily given that:
* A good part of the estimated 2 rnillion refugees returning after the war are now settled in the project
area, where farmer population is estimated to be close to 2 million. This figure far exceeds the 1.5
million target estimated in the 1997 MOP for the Supplemental Credit.
* Between 1999 and 2000, immediately following the completion of road improvements under the TSP,
cultivated land in the project area increased sharply by 78.22%, four times the national average
increase of 21.43%.
* In the project area food production in 2000 and 2001 witnessed an average annual increase of 81.41%
over 1999 levels, as compared to the a 15.27% national increase in the same period.
* Tea production, favored by rising world market prices, continues to show increases. In 2000 and 2001,
average tea production in this region increased over 1999 levels by 36%, 10 percentage points above
the national average increase of 26%.
* Travel time on the Gitarama-Kibuye Road (75.5 kIn) has decreased by 5.5 hours on average, down
from 7 hours before reconstruction to only 1.5 hours now. Similarly, travel time has reduced by an
average 62% on the other rehabilitated roads.
* Vehicle operating costs (VOC) have decreased drastically by 50%, while transporters' costs have
dropped by 40%. Because of reduced transport costs and road improvements, agricultural surpluses
from the the project area are now sold in markets throughout the country. A general shift from
subsistence agriculture towards production for the market is already being observed in the project area.
bnproved economic links with DRC and other benefits
This outcome is assessed in tenns of economic benefits likely to accrue from road links improved by the
- 7-



project. -
According to the Rwanda Development Indicators, 2001, official trade between Rwanda and DRC
continues to decline. For example, trade which was 707 tons in 1999, declined in 2000 and 2001 on
average by 63%, even after the completion of project road works. Similarly, trade with Tanzania and
Uganda declined between 1999 and 2001 by 39%. However, trade development prospects appear to be high
in a pro-peace scenario. Already in anticipation of peace, a South African company has indicated its
interest in exploiting the tin deposits of the Kibuye area, with primary processing at Gisenyi, where the
exploitation of the methane deposit under Lake Kivu for electrical power generation has high potential.
Under the company's plan, the Kigali-Gitarama-Kibyue Road link will play a critical role in logistics for
the provision of supplies to the business which is expected to recruit about 4,000 workers in the tin mine
when it is fully operational. The company also sees potential in locating processing plants in Rwanda for its
mining activities in the DRC.
Chanages in domestic and international tourism in the Kibuye area were already visible at the time of the
ICR According to hotel operators in the Lake Kivu area, the town of Kibuye has become the center of
domestic and international tourism since the opening of the Gitarama-Kibuye road rehabilitated under the
project. To realize its full potential the Provincial Government has commissioned the preparation of a
Master Plan for the town, and is hoping that it will attract domestic and international developers seeking to
invest in tourisin.
Transport Policy consolidated for a sustainable private sector-based road maintenance activity
Road Fundpolicy issued and tested. This outcome is rated satisfactory on the basis of advancements in
establishing a "second generation" road fund and related institutional changes. An autonomous agency,
responsible to a board with road user representation, has been established to oversee the activities of the
road fund and its manger has been appointed. Road fund resources are currently at some FRW 3 billion of
which FRW 2.15 billion from fuel levies, FRW 0.9 billion from road tolls, and FRW 0.2 billion as fines for
excessive truck axle loads. This amount represents only about a third of road maintenance financing needs,
and is deployed essentially to the asphalted network of some 1,100 km, which represents less than 10% of
the national road network. This is particularly penalizing to the national and communal earth roads which
form 900/o of the over 12,500 km of the national network. Fuel levies on petrol and diesel accruing to the
road fund have remained at FRW 24.23 and 20.23, respectively since 1990. The Government has
recognized the need to revise these levies, but it should be anticipated that the road fund alone will not meet
raod maintenance financing needs in the medium term. In addition, there is a justifiable need for additional
investment resources to clear the backlog resulting from a decade of limited maintenance, to bring at least a
prioritized tranche of some 6,000 km to maintainable status.
Private sector-based road maintenance policy tested. Government commitment to new policies is
confirmed by the complete dislocation of force account road maintenance, the establishment within the
Directorate of Roads of a unit to contract out works to the private sector and appointment of its manager, a
transparent process of auctioning road equipment initially used for force account road maintenance. The
auctioning of road equipment was to mark the effective dislocation of force account and to contribute to the
promotion of capacity within the private sector. Despite these efforts, private sector-based road
maintenance is currently exercised by only some three companies based in the country, mainly because of
the thinness of the market. The project outcome of private sector-based maintenance was satisfactorily
achieved but needs to be consolidated on the ground, notably by reviving and expanding the road
maintenance program to meet minimum national needs.
Human resources and institutional capacity built
-8-



A key aspect of institution building was training which the ICR rates as satisfactory. The project was to
train some 729 staff in the public and private sectors, most of whom where unskilled road maintenance
operators. Because of the dislocation caused by the war to state institutions, it is difficult to ascertain the
outcome of the training provided in the initial stages of the project, during the period 1991-1994.
Nonetheless, since 1995 most of the staff in key positions have had the opportunity to get exposure to good
practices in their respective fields of specialization, either from their involvement in project implementation
or through targeted training. A total of 160 staff and 61 vehicle operators have been trained, mostly in a
modem center constructed under the previous Bank-supported projects. With the dislocation of force
account maintenance and the phasing out of ministerial staff, the reduced number of trainees is justifiable.
SMEs in the road industry were also trained as part of efforts to promote private sector-led road
maintenance (see indicators in Annex 1).
In addition to the training program, sector institutions were also streamlined, notably by merging the two
ministries of transport and public works, reorganizing the Department of Roads to better address the
Government's new policy of private sector-based maintenance, and establishing a second generation road
fund to ensure the sustainable maintenance of roads in a new spirit of private sector involvement in road
investment and management (see Paragraph 4.5 below on institutional development impact).
Improvement in road safety
Road safety and accident prevention targeted by the project is beginming to show positive results in the city
of Kigali, but vehicle inspection and axle load control aspects of the project are not yet operational:
Traffic safety. This outcome is rated satisfactorily from the point of view of achievements. at the end of the
project, accident occurence rate was much lower in the city of Kigali (0.3%), where traffic lights and
markings were improved under the project, than in the rest of the country which continued to register an
overall increase of 8 %. Available data show traffic accidents by type of vehicle but do not identify the
location or causes of accidents. This additional information would be valuable for the identification of a
comprehensive accident mitigation program that would include improvement works on accident spots
identified on major roads.
Vehicle Inspection. The construction of a vehicle inspection center was completed. Its operating equipment
purchased by the project was installed four months after the closing date, but the center is not yet
operational. The delay is due to the additional time required to recruit a private operator to manage the
center. At this point in time, this component can be rated unsatisfactory because it is not yet operational;
but the general expectation, as established during the ICR mission, is that the center will be operational
from 2003 once a private operator is chozen.
Preservation of road assets: The preservation of road assets from damage by heavy vehicles is being
addressed through the installation of weigh bridges on the main national roads. Eight weigh bridges, bought
in the last months of the project, are still awaiting installation. Because of its inconclusive results, the
component is rted unsatisfactory. Nonetheless, and like in the case of the vehicle inspection center, the
weigh bridges are expected to become operational in 2003.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The oveall project output is rated satisfactorily in light of global results observed at the time of project
closure. The outputs and implementation experiences are assessed below:
A. Gitarama-Kibuye Road ( SAR initial cost: US$ 47.03 million; Revised cost in 1997 Supplemental
Credit (SC): US$ 45.09 million; Actual (ICR) cost: US$65 million, exclusing post-war claims
evaluated at $19 million). Overll, the physical achievement of this component is rated satisfactory,
despite initial setbacks resulting from the war situation of the country. Started in January 1993, works on
the road were completed in December 2001, after a two year interruption due to the war. The quality of the
-9-



road is generally good. Gabions were constructed at critical sections to protect the road from rock slides
and field inspections showed that the quality of works was satisfactory. The road owes its successful
physical completion mainly to the Supplemental Credit which helped meet financing shortfalls after the
Genocide. Failure to complete the road, which absorbed 63% of IDA funding, would have placed the entire
TSP in a Development Objective problem status.
However, a "corrosive" reaction was recently observed on a 17 km stretch of the road. Assessment
conducted by an independent laboratory seems to attribute the reaction to the quality of rock material used
for the foundation, and estimates that corrective measures would cost up to US$2 million, depending on the
solution adopted. Although the report is silent as to whether this phenomenon should be attributed to
implementation flaws, the technical staff of the project tend to qualify the occurrence as unforeseen and
exogenous to project implementation. The independent evaluation rates as remote chances that the reaction
can expand to the rest of the road, but recommends a timely remedy to avoid further damage on the affected
area.
From a financial perspective, the war caused serious financial losses and cost overruns to the road, but
strides taken at implementation to scale down design standards, helped mitigate their impact on project
outputs. The cost of works at completion stood at $65 million, 38% over the original estimate of US $47
million. In addition, some US$ 15 million is said to have been disbursed by the EU as claims to damages
suffered by the construction company during the war. Similar damages amounting to $ 4 mnillion claimed by
a contractor financed by the IDA credit have not been paid. These "sunk" costs amounting to some US $19
million (about 40% of original cost), pardy explain the serious financial shortfalls the project was
confronted with.
The extended duration of the works and the accompanying inflation of their costs, together with traffic
growth disruption during the Genocide, account for the reduced economic rate of return of 9%, which is
lower than the 13% appraisal estimate.
In terms of environmental and social safeguard policies and measures, appropriate mitigating measures
were implemented during construction to minimize soil erosion. Supervision of the construction works
during and after completion indicate that soil erosion will remain a potential problem because of the
geo-technical nature of the areas through which the roads pass. Emphasis is laid on timely and appropriate
post-project maintenance interventions.
Though initially ignored at the design stage, compensations for landed property affected by road works
were assessed during implementation. A total of FRW782.2 million (US$1.825 million equivalent) has
been disbursed to the affected persons as part of the Govemment's cash contribution, and the remaining
balance of FRW 67.5 million (US$140,000 equivalent) is expected to be fully paid within this budget year.
B. Rehabilitation and road maintenance by SMEs in the Kibuye area (SAR: US$55.6 million; ICR:
US$18.84 million). This component is rated unsuccessful in terns of physical achievement, though the
few completed works cost less than appraisal estimates. Of the 600 km of secondary/feeder communal
roads due to be financed from the initial credit, the project completed only 148 km from a contracted total
of 240 km. Works commenced in October 1993 and were only partially completed by April 1994, when the
civil war broke out. The average cost of the completed communal roads was FRW 2 million per km or
US$13,800 per k1m, at the 1993 exchange rate, much less that the appraisal estimate of US$20,000 per km.
Of the 550 km of the feeder/national roads planned for the Supplemental Credit, 190 mn of earth roads
- 10-



were rehabilitated for a total cost of US$12.85 million. These roads were: Rubengera-Rugerero (80 krm
costing US$ 5.77 million); Circuit des Volcans (65 km costing US$3.82 million); Kibuye-Gisovu road (43
km costing US$3.26 million). The poor result is largely attributable to the guerrilla war insecurity in the
project area, which forced works to be discontinued in 1998. The roads under this component were still in
fairly good condition at the time of the ICR mission, but benefits mentioned in paragraph 4.1 are likely to
be compromised unless appropriate maintenance is imnplemented.
C. Rehabilitation and road maintenance by SMEs in Kigali city (SC: US$8.8 million, ICR: US$1.66
million). This component is rated unsuccessful. It was designed mainly to improve drainage systems and
support the privatization of road maintenance. Of the 80 km projected at appraisal, the project
accomplished 28 km (35%). Works were abruptly halted due to damages being caused to urban water and
telephone utility connections. The design studies of the rehabilitation works had not established an
appropriate mapping of the utility network.
D. Road safety: acquisition and installation of equipment for measurement and control of vehicle axle
load, traffic signals, and markings (SC: US$2.5 million; ICR: US$3.94 million). Improvement of traffic
signs in Kigali was fully achieved, and a new traffic code was prepared and adopted as part of project
activities. The construction of the vehicle inspection unit has been completed. Eight weigh bridges are
expected to be installed soon. Because the center and the weigh bridges are not yet fimctional, these outputs
are rated unsatisfactory, even though the general indication is that they will be operational before the ned of
the fiscal year.
E. Institutional development and technical assistance (SC: US$5.78 million; ICR: US$2.81 million).
This component is rated satisfactory from the triple perspective of physical, financial and policy
achievements. Intended assistance to sector institutions was accomplished, and yielded the expected results
translated by the restructuring the Directorate of Works and the establishment of a second generation road
fund. A law establishing a "Second Generation Road Fund" was enacted. Operational procedures
established in the last months of the project will need to be put to practice, and appropriate levels adopted
for the fuel levy to meet new maintenance needs. Support to institutional strengthening was provided as
identified in the Supplemental Credit.
F. Training. (SC: US$2.81million; see: annex 2). In all, a total of 221 staff of whom 61 drivers were
trained, as compared to an SAR estimate of 729 staff. The initial training needs and objectives were
modified during project implementation, notably to repsond to the shift from force account to private
sector-based road maintenance. The reduced number of trainees is consistent with the changed approach,
which led to substantial reductions in the staffing of the Ministry of Works.
According to the SAR, most of the training was to be provided in-country with the support of visiting
technical assistance. However, since 1995 the country focus seems to have given way to
"out-of-the-country" training. The change in strategy seemed justified as it was in response to the changed
circumstances of Rwanda and tailored to meet new demands arising from the post-war situation.
G. Studies This component is rated successful from both physical and financial achievements. In addition
to technical studies related to the civil works, studies financed under the project included: Practical Guide
for the Preparation of Labor Intensive Projects (8 volumes; December 2001), Preparatory Study for the
Creation of AGETIP for Rwanda (March 2002); Inventory of Equipment and Spare Parts for the
Liquidation of Existing Stocks (November 1998); Study for the Reorganization of the Directorate
General of Roads and Bridges(December 1997); Operational procedures and legal instruments of the road
fund (2001); Impact assessment of the TSP (2002). All studies were completed at competitive costs. The
- 11 -



subjects addressed by the studies helped achieve implementation objectives and also provided useful
material for post-project analysis.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Gitarama-Kibuye Road
The economic rate of return (ERR) of the Gitarama-Kibuye Road on completion is estimated at 9 %. The
ERR is lower than the 13% estimate at appraisal, mainly because of cost increases from extended
implementation delays, the accompanying inflation, and disruption of traffic growth as a result of the civil
war. The detailed analysis is presented in Part I of Annex 3.The NPV (in constant December 2001 prices)
is estimated to be FRW (1,039.5) million. The SAR had no estimate for the NPV.
Road Rehabilitation
The ERR for the rehabilitated roads is estimated at 16%. This component was introduced under the
Supplemental Credit and was not the subject of economic evaluation. The NPV at a discount rate of 10/o (
in constant December 2001 prices) is estimated to be FRW 1,805.14 million.
Communal Roads
The ERR for the communal roads is estimated at 20% compared to the SAR estimate of 12.87%. The
NPV, at a discount rate of 10% is estimated at FRW 14.5 million. The SAR had no NPV estimates.
ERR and NPV for the Project as a whole
The ERR for the TSP is estimated to be 11%, with a corresponding NPV of FRW 1,315.2 million (the
SAR did not provide any estimates for the NPV). In any event the overall ERR of 11% should be seen as a
positive achievement given the specific circumstances of the project, and the very high unit costs of road
works imposed on Rwanda by its hilly and difficult topography.
4.4 Financial rate ofreturn:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, TSP's institutional impact was positive. It is rated essentially on the basis of the the benefits
accruing from the project's training program, streamlined sector institutions, and the performance of sector
staff.
Training of 61 operators and 160 staff in key positions was provided mainly to introduce them to good
practices in their respective areas of responsibility, and as part of the Govermnent's post-war strategy to
rebuild a dislocated civil service. At the time of the ICR, all persons trained after the Genocide were
reported to have returned to their jobs. The list of key staff who received training between 1996 and 2001 is
in project files.
Changes accruing from the institutional reforms carried out under the project are visible, notably from
improved delivery of ministerial action. The General Directorate of Roads and Bridges was reorganized to
promote implementation of the private sector-based road maintenance policy. The Road Fund Authority
was established and a manger appointed. Since the reorganization of these institutions, succeeding Bank
missions have recognized a cultural change in the conduct of business within the Ministry of Transport.
Major issues involving the sector are discussed in a wider forum leveraging major stakeholders. Studies
covering a wide area and a number of issues, including institutional development, completed under the
project are now serving as the basis for government action in the areas covered.
- 12-



The institutional development impact has also been demonstrated by better project implementation:
Shortcomings associated with audit and other fiduciary requirements observed in the previous
Bank-supported projects have been minimal under the TSP; reports produced by ministerial and Road Fund
staff on various policy and operational aspects of the transport sector have been of good quality, including
contributions to the PRSP, the transport sector expenditure review, the sector policy development
framework, etc.
However, the skills and knowledge built under the project need to be deepened and broadened to all
segments of the sector institutions. Also, they need to be accompanied by a general reform of the civil
service that provides appropriate incentives as a means of retaining quality staff for the public sector.
Failure to establish an incentive-driven system within the civil service is most likely to undermine, for
example, the exceptional good governance practices that have characterized contracts financed under the
project, and for which the implementing agencies need to be commended.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The word "Government" is used here ( and in the following section) in a wider sense to mean public
institutions involved in the project. Because of the wide scope of the project and its high policy content,
decisions often involved not just the transport sector ministries but equally the other key ministries, the
hierarchy of the Government, and the Parliament. Where applicable, the ICR also draws a distinction
between factors inherent in the prewar Government and those attributable to the post-war Government.
The Bank's special derogations: A positive factor which was of substantial benefit to the project was the
Bank's decision to award 100% financing under the Supplemental Credit. By waving the Government's
financial contribution, problems generally associated with untimely disbursements of counter-part funds
were avoided. In addition to the benefits to the project, this case may be recorded as a good illustration of
how flexibility in the application of Bank policies can increase results on the ground.
The civil war and the resulting Genocide was a substantial factor outside the control of the Government.
As illustrated in the table in Section 4.1 above, it placed the project in a "Highly Unsatisfactory" status for
two full years in 1994 and 1995, and affected project objectives and outcomes as described in Paragraphs
3.1 and 3.4 above. Some of the setbacks it caused to project implementation could not be totally overcome.
These included: the complete dislocation of project staff and asset; financial losses estimated at about US
19 million; the suspension of project activities for two full years in 1994 and 1995; the reduced economic
impact of the project as observed in Section 4; limited results obtained for the communal/feeder roads
rehabilitation and maintenance program dictated by shortfalls as explained in the preceding sections.
The withdrawal of three co-financiers. Another factor which the Government could not control and
which had substantial negative impact on project objectives and outcomes, was the withdrawal of three of
the five co-financiers. The reasons generally advanced for this withdrawal have been that the lending
policies of these co-financiers to the sector in Rwanda changed following the Genocide. The ensuing
financing gap of 22%, compounded by the shortfalls in the Government's contribution, led to the project
scope being reduced.
Difficult terrain. The exceptionally hilly topography of Rwanda renders road works extremely expensive.
In the case of the Gitarama-Kibuye road, difficult terrain requireed special and costly environmental
mitigation measures (over $4 million or 6% of total works), which slowed down the pace of works and also
inflated the cost of work. For example, adjustments in environmental mitigation measures resulting from a
change in the design of the road delayed works by over a year.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government exhibit of good governance. The shift from force account to contracted road maintenance led
- 13 -



to increased transparency and efficiency in procurement. Also, the establishment of a road fund with
streamlined accounting procedures has introduced greater accountability on the part of the road agency and
contractors. The rewards were visible from the quality of works financed under the projects. For example,
the impact assessment of the TSP concluded that the Gitarama-Kibuye road was constructed in strict
conformity with contract prescriptions. Also, a visit of the earth roads rehabilitated in the Circuit de
Volcans area confirmed that the roads have resisted two very severe rainy seasons thanks to the good
quality of works.
Project audit reports have not raised any management weaknesses associated with the use of project funds.
Another exhibit of good governance was when the Government decided to auction equipment initially used
for force account road maintenance. Attempts to rnisdirect some of the equipment was promptly foiled,
culprits were arrested, and the auctioning was completed under what was generally perceived as
transparent procedures. There is need to streamline and enforce the use of new operational procedures
governing the distribution and disbursement of road fund resources.
Misleading Mapping of utility network: The private sector-based road maintenance program in the city of
Kigali was discontinued when the works caused severe punctures and disruptions on water and telephone
connecting networks. Because of the generalized dislocation in state institutions during the Genocide, the
new leadership of the Kigali municipality was not able to provide an accurate mapping of the utility
network. Initial disbursements to the cancelled works and the corrective measures to restore the utility
network are not readily assessable, but $1.86 was disbursed from the Supplemental Credit against the
uncompleted works. Given the lack of results arising from this situation for a component whose allocation
of $8.5 constituted 20% of the Supplemental Credit, it can be said that the project objective of improved
road network and drainage in the city of Kigali was substantially compromised. Also, the project's intention
to test and build private sector-led work execution was not met.
Slow pace of reforms: The pace of the reforms with respect to road maintenance and the road fund was
slow. Both the prewar and post-war governments initially hesitated to undertake the reforms, deeming them
to be both complex and sensitive. The prolonged lack of action affected the project time table, notably with
regard to the reform of the Department of Roads, the dismantling of force account in favor of
contract-based road maintenance, the establishment of the second generation road fimd, and the
implementation of road safety measures. Strides taken in the last two years of the project to accelerate these
project activities were not able to bridge the lag initially caused to project implementation. This partly
explains why some activities initiated for the road fund and the road safety components could not be
completed.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Limited knowledge of Bank procedures. There is no documented evidence that staff of the project
underwent prescribed training in Bank procedures. While their liriiited knowledge of Bank procedures and
lack of previous exposure to Bank practices are worth mentioning, such limitations appear to have had only
minor consequences on the project. This was partly thanks to the dynamism of the project coordinator and
the simplicity of the accounting system. Project accounting records were kept on a simplified Excel
spreadsheet platform that did not require sophisticated knowledge to handle.
Fiduciary Compliance: Overall, Bank fiduciary requirements were implemented satisfactorily. Delays in
meeting audit requirements in the last years of the project were promptly addressed following a single
instance of unsatisfactory rating of project implementation. All other fiduciary requirements seem to have
been implemented diligently.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The cost of the project and its projected and actual financing are summarized in the table below. As already
indicated in previous sections of this ICR, the 22% shortfall in project financing is explained essentially by
the withdrawal of some co-financiers and the Government's inability to mobilize its contribution. This
- 14 -



figure takes into account a validated but unpaid claim of US $ 4.06 owed to one of the road contractors.
The financing gap of 22% (excluding $6.44 raised by the road fund in the last year of the project) was
partially bridged when the Government sought and obtained the supplemental Credit financing of US 45
million from IDA in 1997. Also, the devaluation of the Rwandan Franc by nearly 600% during the
implementation period proved beneficial to the project.
Transport Sector Project Financing Plan & Actual (1989, 1997 & 2002)
(US$ million)
Source of Financing       Project Cost at Financing Plan  Additional Financing  Actual Financing
Appraisal    at Appraisal  (Supplemental Credit)       2002
in 1989            1998
IDA ( STP & SHP)                            44.07             45.00               85.65
EEC/EDF                                     32.60             0.00                14.72
SDC                                         9.37              0.00                10.21
OPEC                                        4.00              0.00                0.00
FRG/KFW                                     4.75              0.00                0.00
Government                                                    0.00                0.00
Road Fund                               42.37                0.00               6.44*
Development budget                        6.71              0.00               2.70**
Ordinary budget                           4.98              0.00                0.00
Unpaid claims                                                                   4.06***
Trust funds                                 0.00               0.00               0.33****
Total                        148.85        148.85             45.00              124-08
*Road Fund revenues collected in the last year of the project.
Note: includes US$1.825 million was paid as compensation to people dislocated on Gitatama-Kibuye right of
way. No provision was included in the SAR for compensation to persons affected by the project, presumably
on the ground that the reconstruction on the most part would follow the old right of way.
*** Outstanding Claims not paid. GOR is reported to be seeking support from the Chinese Govemment to help
settle the claim of the Chinese contractor
**** Trust fund from Belgium A8-1 Fund and others.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilhty rating:
The sustainability of the project is assessed in terms of the ability and chances to sustain (i) the
maintenance of the roads rehabilitated, (ii) the implementation of policy and institutional reforms initiated
by the project; and (iii) the completion and effective institutionalization of specific activities initiated by the
project in the areas of road traffic safety. Nonetheless, it is difficult in the current circumstances of
Rwanda, to dissociate project sustainability from the overall social situation of the country. As long as
Rwanda continues to face ethnological threats from its exiled factions, and unless there is effective and
lasting peace in the Great Lakes of which Rwanda is a key player, project sustainability cannot be
expressed in certain terms. Viewed from the perspective of these two major externalities, and given the
uncertainty associated with their outcome, it would be difficulty to rate project sustainability likely or
unlikely, without making assumptions:
In an optimistic scenario of durable peace and political stability, as argued in the recent CAS which
predicts a 6-8% economic growth in the next 3 to 5 years (see MOP on the CAS, April 26, 2002; para.
73), project sustainability would be rated likely. For the transport sector, this would also require other
considerations expressed in the CAS, namely, strong reform efforts by the Government and continued
donor support. This assessment is supported by commitment establishment so far by the current
Government, notably through establishing the second generation road fund and enforcing transparent and
- 15 -



independent management of resources, readily eliminating force account road maintenance in favor of
private sector-led road maintenance (about 1,100 km of the asphalted network is maintained by contract),
initiating concrete measures to promote road traffic safety, and its demonstrated interest in building much
needed capacity in the sector. The cohesion in Govemment action, as established through the PRSP and the
Vision 2020 processes, and the enthusiasm with which they have been developed, are other signals that
point to the likelihood of sustaining the project achievements listed above. Even under this scenario, an
incentive-driven reform ofthe civil service would be a crucialfactor in promoting and sustaining good
governance and retaining qualified and competent staff in the sector institutions.
A less opffmistic scenario in which the current situation is maintained and in which the "medium term
prospects of the country remain very fragile", as concluded by OED's recent Country Assistance
Evaluation (June 2002), would cast doubts on the sustainability of the project. In the
circumstances and as memories of the 1994 Genocide continue to fade, Rwanda is likely to lose
some of the privilege and generosity it has enjoyed from the international donor community since
1995. With reduced international assistance, which currently accounts for almost all of the
country's investments, and continued boarder conflicts absorbing some of the already scarce
budgetary resources, it would be difficult to meet the planned physical and financial targets
needed to clear the backlog of road maintenance. At the same time, levies and road user charges
collected by the road fund would not reach the minimum levels required for sustainable financing
of road maintenance operations.
In a worse case but less kliely scenario where the current precarious intemal peace is disrupted by
increased regional conflicts and internal social instability resulting from inconclusive efforts to achieve
social cohesion, project sustainability would be seriously compromised. Under this scenario, even in the
absence of any serious civil strife, general attention would be diverted to the security of the country and
donor assistance would either drop dramatically or cease to be effective.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transitional arrangements discussed under this section relate to the first two scenarios:
Transitional arrangements should consider completing institutional reforms started under the project The
PRSP offers an appropriate and appreciated framework to develop and implement a coherent and
anti-poverty sector strategy that puts to test the new institutions established under the project, and leverages
the cunrent Government's demonstrated commitment to reform The Government will need to maintain the
momentum generated by the project, consolidate policy reforms of the sector aimed at promoting increased
user contribution to road investments, build needed capacity in the sector to undertake appropriate planning
and management of resources, and implement processes that favor increased partnerships with the private
sector and local communities.
In the medium term, Rwanda will need continued extemal assistance to bring the road network to a
maintainable standard. for the road fund. A key condition for this to happen would be for the Government
to take appropriate steps to ensure that rehabilitated roads receive appropriate maintenance. This would in
turn entail, inter alias, increasing the revenues of the road fund and limiting the use of such revenues to a
reduced classified road network defined to match Rwanda's economic capabilities (the current revenues of
FRW 2.9 billion would barely cover 25% of yearly road maintenance needs estimated at FRW 11 billion).
In Rwanda, improved road infrastructure is not a sufficient condition for increased mobility or poverty
reduction. Given the countrys hilly terrain with resulting high transport costs-and particularly limited
- 16-



economic choices for its predominantly rural population-adapted and affordable transport, motorized or
non-motorized, is crucial for reversing the subsistent character of rural agriculture and introducing market
mechanisms that favor rural income generation. Any transitional efforts to sustain the achievements of the
Transport Sector Project, therefore, need to be built into a coherent platform that harnesses cross-sector
synergy and generates adequate incentives and valued-added to enhance agricultural production and
commercialization.
Also, given the high toll imposed on the economy by high transport costs, and the country's continued
reliance on road transport, it would be crucial to lay additional emphasis on road transport facilitation. In
this respect, it would be in the utmost interest of Rwanda to engage in processes that seek to reduce
transport costs on national roads and on the major corridors.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall, IDA's performance at lending is assessed as satisfactory.
The Bank's performance at identification is rated satisfactory given that project objectives were clear and
fitted well into the Government's strategy for the transport sector, as explained in Sections 3.1 and 3.2.
IDA's performance at preparation and appraisal is rated satisfactory. The TSP was the result of a full year
of dialogue between IDA, the donor community and the Government. Judging from the skill mix of the
Bank team involved in project preparation (see Annex 4), and the level of staff input, it can be concluded
that the Bank's technical support to project preparation was largely adequate. The absence in the team of an
environmental expert does not seem to have penalized the quality of such support, given the adequacy of
environmental solutions as discussed earlier in this report. Nonetheless, failure to anticipate that road works
would affect road side property could be blamed on the lack of a social expert in the Bank's team. From a
financial perspective, adequate project preparatory resources were deployed and helped accomplish the
preparation of the Govemrnment's Statement of Transportation Sector Policy on which project rationale
ultimately hinged. Funds from the then ongoing Sixth Highway Project were used to prepare a detailed and
well appreciated priority program which became an integral part of the Government's Five Year
Development Plan. According to OED's report cited earlier, project preparation took into account lessons
from pervious Bank-financed projects in the transport sector.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall, IDA supervision was satisfactory. It recognized the Government's weak institutional capacity,
particularly after the Genocide, and maintained regular supervision (see PSRs). The timely restructuing
conducted after the Genocide and the accompanying measures taken helped clear the project of its Highly
Unsatisfactory rating of 1994 and 1995 (see ratings in the table in Section 4.1). Increased supervision
helped overcome most of the initial shortcomings, and led the project to an overall satisfactory ending.
However, a weakness of supervision was the failure to retrofit the project or to factor into project
monitoring appropriate perfonnance indicators for a continuous assessment of implementation progress and
development objectives. The impact assessment study conducted in the last months of the project came
rather too late, although it was able to produce useful data for post-project assessment.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Based on 7.1 and 7.2, overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
- 17 -



The overall Govemment's performance during project identification and preparation is rated satisfactory,
on the same merits as the Bank's perfommance. The general understanding and collaboration demonstrated
by the Government during this period are reflected in Bank mission reports. The relatively short time it took
to prepare the project (12 months including major road studies) is an indicator of success for the
preparation teams.
7.S Government implementation performance:
The perfonnance of the implementing agency is rated on the basis of PSR ratings and on final project
outcomes. Implementation was generally satisfactory throughout the life of the project, except in the war
period from 1993 to 1995 (see table in 4.1). The lack of any serious fiduciary shortcomings are another
credit to the implementing agency. Nonetheless, initial delays recorded at the beginning caused a setback on
the project's time table. Project activities did not commnence until almost two years after the date of
effectiveness. Also, the lack of counterpart funds in the early years of the project was penalizing on project
implementation, particularly as the Government was expected to contributed as high as 36% of the project
costs. For example, by 1993 ( three years after effectiveness), the Government had not disbursed any funds
for its US$54.06 million contribution. The increase of IDA's financing percentage from 35% to 45% of the
cost of the Gitararna-Kibuye Road Lot 2 still did not solve the counterpart funding problem.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Initially, the General Directorate of Roads and Bridges and its Road Management Unit had limited capacity
that caused delays in implementation of the project components. However, these delays were overcome
through targeted technical assistance and training. In addition, the demonstrated commitment of Staff of
the Directorate, together with the simple accounting methods established for project management, proved
beneficial.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory, as initial shortfalls were reasonably overcome and
the project was brought to an overall satisfactory ending.
8. Lessons Learned
Quick response and support to the post-war situation: A key lesson of the project was the manner in
which the Bank and the Government responded to the post-war challenges facing the entire Rwandan
portfolio, and the TSP in particular. The timely restructuring of the project in 1995 and 1997, together with
other projects in the portfolio, and the Bank's flexibility in the exercise of its policies, helped restore the
satisfactory perfonnance of the TSP after two years of unsatisfactory rating. Of great importance was the
immediate shift in the Bank's overal assistance strategy to Rwanda. An Emergency Recovery Credit was
approved within a record time to support the on-going portfolio of twelve projects, including the TSP. A
related lesson was the readiness with which the new Government accepted existing national policies
goveming projects like the TSP. This factor helped consolidate donor confidence and support.
Affordable and adapted rural transport. Provision of infrastructure alone is not a sufficient condition to
resolve the problem of transport services in Rwanda. To promote higher productivity and increased
incomes, improved rural access both in terms of infrastructure and affordable motorized and non-motorized
transport are needed. Nearly 90% of Rwanda's population is rural and is still trapped in subsistence
production. Head loads still remain the predominant mode of farm-to-market transport of
produce.



The current transport policy does not fully address the need for affordable motorized and
non-motorized transport in rural areas, but there is strong commitment within the Government to
develop a new transport policy that hinges on and contributes more efficiently to the PRSP
objectives. The Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Program (SSATP), the Bank and the European
Union, have recently expressed interest to support a policy development process in the transport
sector. Such a sector policy needs to be placed in a country-wide context guided by cross-sector
synergistic considerations. Transport sector analyses should adopt a holistic approach that places
the sector's performance at the center of the country's overall development. To this effect,
appropriate sector indicators would need'to be defined in the context of the sector strategy, and
their achievement monitored more closely than in the past.
Community andprivate sector partnerships: The provision of infrastructure through labor-based
construction, particularly in the rural areas, seems highly justified in the case of Rwanda. Taking advantage
of the very high population densities in the rural areas (500 persons to a square kilometer on average), and
the high occupancy of road side land, road maintenance activities can easily be integrated into agricultural
activities. Future projects in the sector should seek to establish partnerships with village communities and
draw from what is undoubtedly a favorable environment for sustaining rural road maintenance. This
objective was part of the project but implementation proved less easy and there is a need to give it more
attention than it received under the TSP.
Road Maintenance needs donor assistance. The institutionalization of the second generation road fund,
though a major achievement, is not a sufficient condition for the preservation of existing road assets in the
current context of Rwanda. The resource gap and the backlog of road maintenance are such that internal
resources would not meet maintenance needs, even with increased user levies. The lack of consolidated
peace and stability in the Great Lakes Region will continue to hamper road traffic growth on which road
user levies depend. Under these circumstances, the road fund will not be an adequate source of funding for
road maintenance over the next several years. In the medium term, it should be expected that road
maintenance and major rehabilitation will continue to rely on external financing.
Accidents. Summary data generated under the TSP road safety program indicates that Rwanda has a high
accident rate (see Annex 1). Road safety should continue to be accorded high priority. There is need to
develop a comprehensive strategy for road safety and adequate resources should be provided in future
transport programs to reverse the current accident rate.
Counterpart Financing: A key lesson is the Bank's wise decision to fully finance post-war projects,
without requesting any counterpart fumding from the Government. The Bank should anticipate the
likelihood that the Govemrnment will request that the same exception be maintained for the next transport
operation, and provide a stance as soon as possible.
Systematic mineralogical studies in project preparation: As indicated in Paragraph 4.2 of the ICR, a
chemical reaction was observed on a 17 km stretch of the Gitarama-Kibuye road, some 9 months after
works had been completed. The Road Department has carried out an investigation of the reaction with the
help of a Belgian Laboratory. Nonetheless, given that the reaction seems to be attributed to the quality of
rock material used for the base layer, it would be advisable that any new road projects in the sub-region
include appropriate mineralogical studies.
9. Partner Comments
-19-



(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Veuillez trouver ci-dessous mes commentaires sur l'ICR:
1. Page 3- Assessment of initial project objectives:
Clarity and importance to the GoR; je pense que les objectifs du projet
focalisaient    essentiellement    les    investissements    et    renforcement
institutionnel dans le secteur routier et non uniquement comme c'est dit dans
ce paragraphe. En effet, il y avait aussi des infrastructures sur le lac kivu
qui etaient prevues.
2. Fin page 4 a page 5, cooriger comme suit: "The road rehabilitation
introduced under the supplemental credit was benefit to the same communities
as it concentrated largely on roads that run along the same
lake, from Gisenyi through Kibuye to Cyangugu and Gisovu."
3. Page 6, Table: Component status after 2nd restructuring of the Upgrade and
paving Gitarama-kibuye road; les caracteristiques geometriques ont ete revues
a la baisse pour toute la route et non unuquement sur 40km.
4. page 7, paragraphe 3.5; il y a eu quand meme quelques deplacements pour des
habitations qui se retrouvaient dans l'axe de la route...
5. page 9, road fund policy issued and tested: je pense qu'il faut reformuler
certains passages de ce paragraphe car les revenues actuelles du FER sont
superieures a celles de l'ancien Fond Routier fiduciairement parlant.
Cependant, il est vrai qu'en terme de valeur si on doit convertir en dollars
le FER collecte moins vue la depreciation du FRW et la constance des
redevances. De plus, la redevance sur le carburant n'est pas limitee
uniquement sur les vehicules etrangers de transit, clest par contre la
redevance sur peage route qui est limitee aux vehicules etrangers de transit.
6. page 11, vehicule inspection; les equipements du CCTA sont deja installes
depuis la mi-septembre.
A. Gitarama-kibuye road(SAR.....); le materiau a l'origine de la reaction a ete
utilise pour la couche de base et non la couche de fondation (avant dernier
paragraphe).
7. page 16, the size of the implementing unit; la derniere phrase n'est pas
correcte car ma fonction de directeur de la planification ne m'a nullement
empeche de focaliser sur le projet. C'est l'inverse qui arrive par contre. Et
en plus, c'est un peu en contradiction avec avec ce qui est dit plus haut sur
la meme page:"Project audit reports have raised any management weaknesses
associated with the use of project funds" sous Government exhibit of good
governance.
8. page 18, paragraphe 1,3 et 4; reformuler en tenant compte des rece-tes
evolutions positives dans la sous region: l'accord de paix de pretoria entre
le rwanda et la RDC, et le retrait effectif de l'armee rwandaise du congo.
9. page 21, i)Effects of war; si possible laisser tomber l'exemple car c'est
mieux dit dans la phrase qui precede:".. .projects need to be critically
examined and appropriate mitigation measures prescribed with regard to the
country's current fragile situation."
ii)community and private sector partnerships; la non execution de cette
composante est due au manque de fonds qui ont ete absorbes par git-kibuye et
je reste convaincu que cet objectif peut mieux se realiser a travers un
programme integre plutot qu'a travers des projets separes. Et c'est ca meme
l'esprit de la nouvelle politique sectorielle que nous sommes entrain
-20 -



de developper. iii) road maintenance needs donor assistance; je pense qu'il
faut aussi mentionner que vu ce backlog dans l'entretien des routes, ces
dernieres se sont deteriorees et qu,il est difficile d'envisager meme
l'entretien actuellement car une bonne partie du reseau n'est pas en etat
d'etre entretenu. Une des priorites serait d'ameliorer cet etat en
rehabilitant les routes pour qu'elle puissent etre entretenues. et la, nous
avons besoin du Donor assistance.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Discussions were held with the EU staff in Kigali. The main issue discussed related to the change in EUs
commitment for financing the TSP immediately after the war. EUs explanation was that their procurement
system requires the settlement of outstanding claims in advance of providing any financing. The ICR team
was unable to meet with the SDC.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
No additional data provided.
-21-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                         Projected In last PSR     -          ActuiULatest Estimate-   ---
1. Food producion increase in project area
(compared to national average increase)
Ruhengeri provinoe                    N/A                                  +87%
Gisenyi Province                      N/A                                  +124%
Kibuye Province                       N/A                                  +123%
2. Voluntary resettlers in project area  1.5 million                       2.0 milbon
3. Improved road Inks to DRC          1996=100%                             172%
4. Travel Time Savings: Gitarama- Kibuye  N/A                              5 5 hotxs (from 7 before project to 1.5 after
(75.5 kms)                                                                 project)
5. Vehile Operating Costs on          125                                  N/A
Gitarama-Kibuye road (FRW per
vehicle-kln)
6 Economic Rate of Retum for          13%                                  9%
GitaramaXKbuye
36%                                   N/A
6. Road network in good conditon      100%                                  N/A
6.1 Earth roads
6.2 Paved roads                      FRW 28.5 billion                      FRW 2.9 billion
7 Road Fund resources mobilized       100%                                  100%
8. Road Maintenance executed by contract
N/A                                   1,520 FRW
9. Transport cost savings per km per ton on
Girmma-Kibuye road
10. Road accidents (peryear)          N/A                                   2,221
10.1 in Kiga6 City                   1,276                                1,559
10.2 Rest of the country
*N/A= Not Available
** National average increase =15%
*** For passenger buses
Output Indicators:
-22 -



Indicator/Matrix -                 Projected in last PSR               ActualiLatest Estimate?
1.Upgrading and paving Gita-Kibuye road  75.5 km                          75.5 kms
2. Secondarylfeeder roads rehabilitated  550 kms                         190 kms
3. Communal pilot roads reconstructed  600 kms                           148.9 kms
4. Urban roads maintained using SMEs  80 kms                             27.98 kms
5. Road maintenance
5 1 Resurfacing Paved intemational roads  197 kms                       0 kms
5.2 Regravelling unpaved national roads  1796 lkns                      0 kms
5.3 Patching entire paved road network  1 107 kms                       1,107 kms
5 4 Grading unpaved roads           2.640 kms                           0 kms
5.5 Routine maintenance on earth and  4,050 kms                         0 kms.
gravel roads
6. Road Safety:
6.1 Functional weighbridges on major paved 8                            0 (but 8 weghbridges bought but yet to be
roads                                                                    installed)
6.2 Traffic ights, marikngs and s1nals in  100% completed               isl%
Kigali                                                                   100% ompleted
6.3 Vehile built and operational    100%                                 Vehicle inspecion center built but not
100%                      ~~~~~~~~~operational
6.4 Traffic accidents recorded      100%                                 100% (but a computenzed database is
recommended)
7. institutional Support             100%
71 Second Generation Road Fund' legally                                 100% (but operatons need enhanoement)
estabUshed.                          100%
72 Roads Department restructured    729                                 100% (but staff need addiional training)
7.3 Staf Trained                                                        22
End of project
-23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
- -    Appraisal   ActuaULatest  -Percentage of
-                    S; r . .                        6 Estimate  Estimate  Appraisal
. Projet Cost By Component -         US$ million   US$ million-
1. Transport Component                              3.63           3.94           109
2 Road Component
Gitarama-Kibuye*                                   47.03          84.20           179
Periodic Maintenance on communal/feeder roads      21.40          13.32          44.11
Routine Maintenance                                12.63           8.10          64.13
MlNITRAPE-Services                                 9.08           5.78          62.28
Communal Roads                                     12.07           3.86          18.77
3. Institutional Development and & TA               3.78           2.81          76.22
4. Indemnities to persons affected by works         0.00           2.07
Total Baseline Cost                               109.62         124.08
Physical Contingencies                            10.96
Price Contingencies                               28.27
Total Project Costs           148.85         124.08
Total Financing Required            148.85         124.08
*Actual includes $19 million of sunk costs from war damages and claims
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
ExpeE nditure Ctegot   -- ICB -     Proqurement, Method -._ F.             TotalCost
NC r :  r  aO ther e                _--__e___
1. Works                    29.65         7.47         51.68        30.62       119.42
(10.56)      (5.16)        (6.21)       (0.00)      (21.93)
2. Goods                     13.57        0.00         7.05         0.00         20.62
(11.24)       (0.00)       (0.50)       (0.00)      (11.74)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         8.81         0.00         8.81
(Consultants)               (0.00)       (0.00)        (6.33)       (0.00)      (6.33)
4. Operating Expense         0.00         0.00         0.20         0.00         0.20
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.20)       (0.00)      (0.20)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     43.22         7.47        67.74        30.62        149.05
(21.80)       (5.16)      (13.24)       (0.00)      (40.20)
N.B. Total Cost adds to 148.85 NOT 149.05 as in the last column. Formula may need to be reviewed.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actualliatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
|- , tU 5- t ss .ItzfI ,,- tePro curemeit Methlod---I|
Exp~editure Ctory        -ICB      Procuremen-                 N.B.F.    - Total Cost
-24 -



~~~~~-                     E. !,.-  =                    a-                             -- C.,,, .,2,-I--CC. C ,., C
K                                        -_ _      ,     _ _ i | i # J_iS 'L[NCB  O:'t,Oher.,,,
1. Works                       97.37          4.81          0.86          0.00         103.04
(67.91)        (4.81)        (0.41)        (0.00)       (73.13)
2. Goods                        4.33          0.23          1.22          0.00          5.78
(4.33)        (0.23)        (1.22)        (0.00)        (5.78)
3. Services                     4.55          0.59          1.61          0.00          6.75
(Consultants)                  (4.55)        (0.58)        (1.61)        (0.00)        (6.74)
4. Operating Expense            0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          8.51          0.00          8.51
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       106.25         5.63          12.20          0.00        124.08
(76.79)        (5.62)        (3.24)        (0.00)       (85.65)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the projects, and (ii) on-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-ponet               Appraisal Estiate      |    Actual/Lstest s|Imate
IDA       Govt.     CoF.`     IA       Govt.   'CoF.      IDA    Gov    CoFJ
Transport Component
Lake transport           2.60      0.29     0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
Vehicle inspection       1.84      0.20      0.00     3.94       0.00     0.00    214.1   0.0    0.0
Road Component
Gitarama-Kibuye Road    12.26      5.72     45.97     54.75      2.14     29.14   446.6   37.4   63.4
Road Maintenance         5.88     33.64     4.75      1.66       6.44     0.00     28.2   19.1   0.0
Road Rehabilitation     11.11      5.13     4.75      17.18     0.00      0.18    154.6   0.0    3.8
MINITRAPE                5.75      6.58     0.00      5.78       0.00     0.00    100.5   0.0    0.0
Institutional Development  4.63    5.67     0.00      2.80       0.01     0.00     60.5   0.2    0.0
Total                   44.07     54.06     50.72     85.65      0.62     29.32   194.3   1.1    57.8
- 25-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Preface
This post-completion economic evaluation of the Transport Sector Project covers the following three
components completed under the project: (a) Gitarama-Kibuye Road (Lot IA, Lot IB, Lot 2); (b)
periodic/rehabilitation and maintenance of the three earth roads; and (c) communal roads. It is based on
traffic data, operational performance, and costs and benefits of the project components. The approach is
similar to that employed at appraisal. It is also based on an assessment of costs and benefits "with" and
"without" the proposed works. The underlying assumption is that routine maintenance would be
adequately carried out annually, although there is some uncertainty given the budget constraints the
Government is likely to face in the near future. Another assumption is that the current backlog of
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance would be financed with external assistance, and that priority
routine maintenance would be financed by the second generation road fimd now in place.
The approach used for estimating the economic rate of return (ERR) for the Gitarama-Kibuye Road and
periodic/rehabilitation is based on Highway Design Model (HDM). Vehicle operating cost (VOC) savings
are quantified as benefits. Progressive deterioration of the road surface is also assumed. The capital
investments and maintenance costs were revised to reflect December 2001 prices and are included in the
cost stream. The benefits stream is also calculated in December 2001 prices. The project life assumed is
15 years for the Gitarama-Kibuye Road. The capital investment period for all components was from 1993
to 2001. Analysis takes into account the interruption on the Gitarama-Kibuye Road between 1994-1996;
The cunrent policy on routine and periodic maintenance is taken into account.
The re- estimation of ERR for the communal road pilot program also follows the appraisal methodology.
Eleven of the 18 communal roads were completed, while 7 were only partially completed by the outbreak
of war. As in the appraisal, the economic analysis is based on one of the typical completed communal
roads.
Part I: Gitarama-Kibuye Road
The implementation of the Gitarama-Kibuye Road was completed as Lot IA (25.5.1 kms), Lot lB (16.1
kms), and Lot 2 (32 kms). Lot I (A & B) and Lot 2 were contracted out in January and July 1993.
Construction on Lot 2 restarted in 1996 and was substantially completed at the end of 1998. Lot 1,
contracted out as Lot IA & 1B, restarted in 1999, and the two lots were completed in 2000 and 2001,
respectively. In line with the rationale of the Supplementary Credit, the prewar expenditures are
considered as sunk costs and the cost and benefit analysis is based on postwar investment costs. All costs
are in 2001 prices.
Traffic Projecton
Historical traffic counts on Rwandan roads were last conducted in the 1980s, but a traffic count was
done in December 2001 on the completed roads, in the context of the impact study mentioned earlier in
this report. Traffic projections over the economic life of the road investments are based on the following
projections:
* Transformation of subsistence agriculture. Improved road network will increased access to markets
and promote Domestic trade in crops. This will enhance diversification and regional specialization and
increase production for the market. These developments will increase traffic on the roads.
* Urbanization. Currently, urban population represents a mere 10% of Rwanda's population and 7% of
the urban population lives in Kigali. Urban growth is likely to create greater demand for farm
products, as well as the supply of urban goods to rural areas. Both factors will generate increased
traffic on the road.
-26 -



*   Tourism. Today, with the completion of the major road network, Kibuye, on the shore of Lake Kivu,
has become a favorite tourist attraction for vacations, retreats, workshops, and seminars; and hotel
accommodations are fully booked in advance. The Kivu area and the nearby Mountain Gorilla will
continue to attract tourists and ivestors, particularly if the conflict in the region is resolved and peace
is restored. These factors will increase traffic on the roads linking this region to Kigali and to DRCi.
*   Tin exploitation. A South African company is planning to mine the tin deposits in the region between
Kibuye and Gisenyi along Lake Kivu. The Kigali-Kibuye Road will be the main for the supply of
provisions. This likely to increase the traffic on the road.
*   Power generation from methane gas. Lake Kivu has a proven deposit of methane gas that can be
converted into electric power. Exploitation of the methane gas will also generate additional traffic.
* Trade between DRC and Rwanda. Once peace reigns in the region, trade with DRC is likely to pick
up substantially.
*   Increase in export production. With the revival of the world price for coffee, production is expected
to revive to the level in 1999. It is less than a third of that level now.
*   Resettlement. People not yet resettled because of the war will return to peaceful activities once
national reconciliation is achieved.
On the basis of the above assumptions, and after consultation with the Lead Economist for Rwanda,
traffic growth is estimated at 10% a year. This estimate is consistent with the CAS which places GDP
growth rate at 6-8% in a scenario of peace and stability.
Daily Traffic: Actual and Projected.
Year     Private   Pick-up  Minibus  Bus Truck with      Truck with     Heavy truck
Car                               2-axle        3-axle         with trailer
2001    78        196       91      7      31            4              4
2021    527       1319      613     53     211           26             26
Econonic Costs
Given the difficult terrain road works were mainly mechanized, thus accounting for reduced labor cost and
the predominantly skilled labor. For the economic analysis all costs are expressed in FRW 2001 prices.
Economic Cost Comparison (million FRW)
SAR         Supplementar*y       ICR**           ICR/SAR
_____ ____ ____   ___ ____ ____C red it*_  _ _ _ _ _ _ __  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
(De. 2001)      (Dec. 2001)       (De.. 2001)        (in %)
Lot 1                                   10,051.00        16,125.60             161.7
Lot 2                                    9,656.84t       9,103.22               94.3
Total                27,946.15         19,707.84        25,228.82              127.
* Based on modified design that was implemented.
**Excluding the sunk costs of US$19.24 million or FRW 8,407.88 million in December 2001 prices.
Economic Benefits. Benefits used for the economic analysis include those derived mainly from VOC
savings in 2001 prices. Quantification of time savings due to higher speeds on improved roads and savings
from fewer accidents are not included in the ERR estimates. It is assumed that generated traffic due to
improvement in the road condition will be about 2% of the total traffic.
Economic Evaluation
-27 -



The ERR for Gitarama-Kibuye estimated at 9%, which is much lower than the SAR estimate of 13%. The
lower ERR was due to (a) increase in costs; and (b) the economy only recovered in 2000 to the level in
1990. The Net Present Value at a 10% discount rate is minus FRW 314 million.
Gitarama-Kibuye Road ERR (%) & NPV (million FRW)
SAR                          ICR
ERR                                    13%                          9%
NPV (10%, million FRW)                  NA                        (1,039.5)
The ERRs for three traffic growth scenarios are summarized in the table below that indicates that the
effect of changes in traffic growth assumptions substantially affect the results. The NPV is negative with
lower traffic growth. Given that Rwanda is a landlocked country, the probability that changes in VOC
will decline is not likely and is not considered.
Project Component           Best estimate (10% traffic  Traffic( 5% traffic Growth
growth)                     Rate
Gitarama-Kibuye             10%                          5%
Lot I                        13%                        8%
Lot 1B                      11%                         5%
Lot 2                        3%                         -1%
Part I: Road Rehabilitation of Earth Roads
Three feeder roads totaling 190 kms were rehabilitated under the project between 1996 and 2001. These
are:
Rubengera-Rugerero Road (80kms), substantially completed in 1997; Circuit des Volcans Road (65 kms),
substantially completed in 2000; and,
Kibuye-Gisovu Road (43 kms), substantially completed in 2001.
Traffic projection
Assumptions for traffic projections on these roads are the same as those for the Gitarama-Kibuye Road.
Traffic is assumed to grow at 10% per year.
Rubenv ra-Rugerer Road Daily Traffic
Year    Private   Pick-up   Minibus  Bus    Truck with      Truck with    Heavy truck
_ Car                         I      2-axle          3-axle        with trailer
2001 122          50       42       14      5               0             0
2014   174        169      145       114    17              3             0
Circuit des Volcans Daily Traffic       _
Private    Pick-up Minibus    Bus   Truck with      Truck with    Heavy truck
Year    Car               l                 2-axle          3-axle        with trailer
2001    7         40       20        12     8               1             0
2018    35        198      99        59     40              6             0
Kibuye-Kisovu Daily traffic
i   Private  IPick-up  Minibus  I Bus |Truckwith |Truckwith     iHeavytruc
-28 -



Year    Car                                   2-axle    .13-axle       with trailer
2001         12          25        20     4          16             0              0
2020        169         348       120    24          96             6              0
Economic Costs
All costs were evaluated in constant December 2001 prices.
Roads Rehabilitated (ERW million)
SAR         Supplementary       ICR**
Roads                                    Credit*
(Dec. 2001)     (Dec. 2001)       (Dec. 2001)
Rubengera-Rugerero             N/A                N/A          2,519.69
Circuit des Volcans            N/A                N/A         1,668.85
Kibuye-Gisovu                  N/A                N/A         1,415.29
Total                                                        5,603.83
Economic Benefits
The economic analysis is similar to the methodology used for the analysis in the SAR. It focuses on the
benefits derived from VOC savings.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
No road rehabilitation was anticipated at appraisal. The SAR included only periodic maintenance. The
ERR for the rehabilitated roads is as follows:
Road Rehabilitation Projects
Project Component          SAR*                       ICR)
Rehabilitation             N/A                         16%
Rubengera-Rugerero         N/A                        21%
Circuit des Volcans        N/A                        10%
Kibuye -Gisovu              N/A                       16%
Road Rehabilitation Projects
Project Component
Best Estimate (10% traffic  Traffic
growth)                    (5% traffic growth)
Rehabilitation             16%                         12%
Rubengera-Rugerero         21%                        18%
Circuit des Volcans        10%                       *5%
Kibuye -Gisovu              16%                       13%
Part IIL Communal Roads
Communal Roads Pilot Project(in million FRW)
I Road                      |Length    Year       |Total Cost      Cost/km
Karengera-Bingo-Mugonero   114.3 km    1994      126.49           1.85
-29 -



Traffic.
Vehicles. Daily traffic 6 tons per pick-up (4 x 1.5 tons)
Head-Load 1.5 tons per day
Economic Costs.
Pick-up on poor road: FRW 247.56/vehicle km = FRW 165.04/ton-km
Pick-up on poor road: FRW 180.77/vehicle kan = FRW120.5/ton-lan
Head Load: 20 km per day over 14.3 km at FRW 400/day =FRW 1,398.6 ton/km
Economic Benefits
Traffic in 1995, 1996, and 1997 was below the expected level due to the civil war and reached the
expected level in 1998. Thereafter traffic grows at 5% per year.
Cost of transport by vehicle per year: 6 tons x 365 days x 14.3 km x (165.04-120.5) = FRW 1,
394,859.18
Head load: 1.5 tons x 365 days x 14.3 km x (1398.6 -120.5) = FRW 10,006,564.43
Communal Roads Pilot Project
SAR                          ICR
ERR                        12.87%                       20.00%
NPV (10%, million FRW)     NA                          14.25
Part IV. Overall Economic Evaluation of the Project
Overall ERR
The overall ERR for the (a) Gitarama-Kibuye Road; (b) rehabilitated roads; and (c) commnunal roads is
14% and the NPV at 10% is about FRW 5,170 million. In the SAR, the overall ERR for the TSP was
estimated at 46% and no NPV estimate made.
ERR (in %) and NPV (10% in Million FRW)
SAR                         ICR
ERR                                    45%                        11%
NPV (10%, million FRW)                 NA                        1,315.19
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
2) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty        Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count         Specialty                   Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
01/1988                   2    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST(I)
ENGINEER (1)
05/1988                   2    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1)
ENGINEER (1)
09/1988                   3    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST(I)
ENGINEER (1)
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
02/1989                   4    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1)
ENGINEER (1)
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
ECONOMIST (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/1989                   5    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
(TTL) (1)
ROEAD ENGINEER
(Cons.) (1)
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
ECONOMIST (1)
RESEARCH ASSISTANT
(1)
05/1989                   1    DIVISION CHIEF
10/1989                   3   SR. TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
(TTL)(1)
TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)
HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
03/1990                   3    PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST (1)
ECONOMIST/FIN. ANALYST
(Cons.)(1)
CONSULTANT (1)
Supervision
See SAP                 225   See SAP                          S            S
ICR
05/15/02                  2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)            S            S
CONSULTANT (1)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation            22.0                      58.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                 38.3                     102.2
-31 -



Supervision                            225.1                      837.1
ICR
Total                                  285.4                      998.1
Supervision includes ICR as this does not appear as separate item in the system
-32-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                        O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
Sector Policies                       OH   *SUOM      ON   O NA
F Physical                             O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
E Financial                            O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
F Institutional Development            0 H  O SUO M    0 N   0 NA
FEnvironmental                         O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
Social
E Poverty Reduction              O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
F Gender                         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Z Other (Please specify)         OH   *SUOM      ON    O NA
Compensations to displaced persons
 Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
 Public sector management             0 H O SUO M     0 N   0 NA
ER Other (Please specify)              OH   OSUOM      ON    O NA
Road safety
- 33-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
O Lending                                          OHS OS OU OHU
Ol Supervision                                     OHS OS       OU    O HU
EI Overall                                         OHS * S      O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
O Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
LI Government implementation performance           O HS OS      O U    0 HU
OI Implementation agency performance               OHS OS       O U    O HU
OI Overall                                         OHS OS       OU     O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
World Bank, Rwandese Republic, Transport Sector Project, Staff Appraisal Report, April 30, 1990.
World Bank, Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the IDA to the Executive Directors,
April 30, 1990.
World Bank, Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the IDA to the Executive Directors,
November 10, 1997.
World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy- Progress report, June 11, 1999.
Government of Rwanda Rwanda Development Indicators, 2001.
Government of Rwanda, Transport Sector Project Impact Study, April 30, 2002.
The World Bank, Rwanda Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE), June 2002
- 35 -



Additional Annex 8.The Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
TRAN SPO NRETCKin K(C RE
sOiOgo RTREnRgEoTKhK NaEANSPOpg
oTK igArT ogERoEpr ssNiOpKoOrig
SFAFE-(E20XPO
ATr5R oIgRporT ORM REi TKi gAr To
p;l ID6BJJEBLWE
TKAArT oEhuKpcR hRsR io
I. Contexte. Obiectifs et Mise en Oeuvre
1.1. INTRODUCTION
Le Projet Sectoriel de Transport (PST) a e convu par le Gouvemement Rwandais dans le but de
promouvoir les infrastructures de transport ainsi que pour ameliorer les conditions de la securite
routiere sur l'ensemble du tenitoire rwandais. L'accord de credit no 2136 RW du PST a et conclu
le 31 aofit 1990 entre le Gouvernement de la Republique Rwandaise et l'Association Internationale
de Developpement (IDA) et ratifie par la loi n 04/91 du 26 janvier 1991.
L'Association Intemationale de Developpement a consenti au Gouvemement Rwandais un credit en
monnaies diverses d'un montant equivalent a trente et un millions cent mile Droits de Tirage
Speciaux (DTS 31.100.000).
II etait en outre attendu que:
(i)    La Republique Rwandaise se proposait d'obtenir du Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED) un
Don d'un montant equivalent a US$ 32.600.000 pour contribuer au financement de la partie relative a la
route Gitarama-Kibuye - lot I -.
(ii)   La Republique Rwandaise se proposait d'obtenir du Gouvemement de la Confederation Helvetique
(la Suisse) une contrihution non remboursable d'un montant de 15.000.000 de Francs suisse pour
contribuer A financer la partie du Projet relative a la construction de la route GITARAMA-KIBUYE - lot 2
(iii)  La Suisse a nomm6 l'IDA pour administrer la contribution suisse conformement aux dispositions
d'un Accord de procedures en date du 9 avril 1987 conclu entre la Suisse et l'IDA. L'IDA a accepte cette
nomination et elle a administre la contribution suisse conformement aux dispositions de l'accord de credit
n 2136 RW.
-36 -



(iv)   La Republique Rwandaise avait obtenu du Fonds de l'Organisation des Pays Exportateurs de
Ptrole (OPEP), un pret d'un montant de 4.000.000 US$ pour contribuer A financer la construction de la
route Gitarama-Kibuye - lot 2 - aux conditions stipulees dans un accord en date du 23 fevrier 1990, conclu
entre la R6publique Rwandaise et l'OPEP.
(v)    La Republique Rwandaise avait obtenu de la Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau (KFW), organisme
de la Republique Federale d'Allemagne un Don d'un montant de 11.000.000 de Deutsche Marks pour
contribuer a financer la partie relative a l'execution d'un programme d'entretien routier quadriennal du
Projet Sectoriel de Transport aux conditions stipul6es dans une convention de financement conclue entre la
Republique Rwandaise et la KFW en date du 27 avril 1988.
1.2. DESCRIPTION DU PROJET
Les objectifs du PST ont et definis dans l'Accord de Credit comme suit:
a)     Promouvoir le developpement economique des communes grace a I'amelioration des routes;
b)     Appliquer des methodes d'un bon rapport couit-efficacite A la conception, la construction, la
supervision et l'entretien du reseau routier;
c)     Preserver les investissements deja realises dans la construction des routes nationales d'inte&
international, et des routes nationales d'int6r6t national, et accroitre la duree de service desdites routes;
d)     Renforcer les institutions responsables de l'entretien des routes;
e)     Ameliorer:
(i) la mobilisation des ressources pour appuyer les activites d'entretien routier;
(ii) 1'efficacite des operations d'entretien routier en particulier en terme de cofit
de revient kilometrique ; et
(iii) I'equilibre entre l'entretien et la construction des routes
f)     Ameliorer le transport lacustre et l'acces aux rives du lac Kivu ; et
g)     Ameliorer la securite routiere.
Ainsi, en vue d'atteindre ces objectifs, le Projet comprenait, les parties suivantes:
Partie A:  Amelioration et revetement de la route Gitarama-Kibuye.
Partie B: Refection, reconstruction et entretien courant, selon le cas, d'environ 600 Km de
routes communales.
Partie C   Execution d'un programme national quadriennal d'entretien des routes nationales,
urbaines et des ponts.
Partie D: Perfectionnement et formation A l'intention du personnel de I'Administration et des
PME intervenant dans l'entretien routier.
Partie E: Construction d'un chantier naval et de quais sur le lac Kivu et construction d'un
centre de controle technique automobile A Kigali.
1.3. DEROULEMENT DU PROJET
Certaines actions qui etaient entamees avec le demarrage du Projet, a savoir les travaux
d'am6nagement et d'asphaltage de la route Gitarama-Kibuye, 1'ex6cution des travaux d'entretien
des routes communales, la confection des etudes d'amenagement des quais supplementaires au bord
du lac Kivu, ont e interrompues avec l'eclatement de la guerre et du genocide d'avril 1994.
Apres le Genocide de 1994, suite a la suspension de financement par certains bailleurs et aux
nouvelles conditions socio-economiques du pays, la Banque a organise une Mission de
- 37 -



Supervision/Restructuration en mai 1995. II a et conclu entre le Gouvernement Rwandais et l'IDA
que les objectifs du Projet en general restaient valables rnais que les activites du Projet seraient
concentrees sur la realisation des actions prioritaires suivantes:
(i)    Construction de la route Gitarama-Kibuye
(ii)   Rehabilitation et entretien d'axes prioritaires avec creation et encadrement de PME.
(iii) Mise en place d'un prograrnme d'amelioration des conditions de la securite routiere, et
(iv)   Renforcement de la capacite d'execution du Ministere des Travaux Publics et de l'Energie et du
Ministere des Transports et Communications.
Les activites suivantes ont et poursuivies:
(i) Au niveau du Ministere des Travaux Publics
1.    la construction de la route Gitarama-Kibuye
2.     la rehabilitation de la route Rubengera-Rugerero
3.     1'entretien de la route << Circuit des Volcans >
4.     I'entretien de la voirie de la Ville de Kigali
5.     I'am6lioration de la gestion du Fonds Routier National
6.     le renforcement de la capacite d'execution du Ministere des Travaux Publics / Direction
des Ponts et Chaussees.
(ii) Au niveau du Ministere des Transports et Communications
1.    I'amelioration des conditions de la s6curit6 routiere
2.    le renforcement de la capacite d'execution du Ministere des Transports et
Communications / Direction des Transports
(iii) L'audit annuel des comptes du Projet, du Fonds Routier National et de la Direction des Ponts
et Chaussees.
En plus, il y a eu un reanminagement du budget du Projet par un amendement du 15 novembre
1995, et toutes les depenses du Projet ont et financees a 100% par l'IDA, exceptee la categorie IA
(route Gitarama-Kibuye lot II), prise en charge a 60% par l'IDA et 40% par le Don Suisse.
Neanmoins la contribution suisse a et6 momentanement suspendue apres les evenements d'avril
1994 mais avec des promesses fermes de reprise. Quant a l'Union Europeenne, elle n'a pas
reconduit son financement.
Des dispositions ont et prises par amendement de l'Accord de credit du 16/09/1996 pour
permettre le financement a 100% de la route Gitamna-Kibuye jusqu'au 31/12/1996.
Au cours de l'exercice 1997, le Gouvemement Suisse a notifie la remise a disposition de son
financement.
CREDIT SUPPLEMENTAIRE
Suite a l'arret de financement par l'Union Europeenne des travaux d'amenagement et d'asphaltage
du lot I de la route Gitarama-Kibuye, le Gouvernement Rwandais a obtenu de l'IDA, un credit
supplementaire de 33.089.000 DTS pour financer les composantes ci-apres:
1.     Amrnagement et asphaltage du lot I de la route Gitarama-Kibuye (partie A du Projet)
2.     Rehabilitation, reconstruction et entretien de routine de 1.150 1am de routes cornmunales (partie B
et C du Projet)
- 38 -



3.     Entretien periodique et de routine des routes comprises dans les parties B et C du projet.
4.     Acquisition d'equipement et pieces detachees pour la partie E du Projet.
L'Accord portant amendement de l'Accord de Credit no 2136 RW, relatif au credit supplementaire
a ete signe le 13 fevrier 1998 entre la Republique Rwandaise et l'IDA a et ratifie par la loi n
04/98 du 14/04/1998.
La date d'entree en vigueur du credit supplementaire est le 28 mai 1998.
Le PST a 6te cloture le 31 decembre 2001 pour les categories IA, IB, I C, ID, IE, 2A, 4; et le 30
avril 2002 pour les categories 2B, 3 et 5.
II ETAT D'EXECUTION
11.1. AsRects Physiaues
11.1.1 Route Gitarama-Kibuve
Apres le Genocide de 1994, dans le souci de reduire le cofit du projet vue l'enveloppe disponible, le
trace de cette route (a partir du PK 16) a ete revu avec une reduction de ses caracteristiques
vitesse de reference, rayon de courbature minimum etc..
Le lot 2 (du PK 42+500 jusqu'a la fin) a et l'objet d'une Convention de reprise entre le Ministere
des Travaux Publics et la Societe Nationale Chinoise des Travaux de Ponts et Chaussees
(SNCTPC).
Le lot 1, subdivise en deux sous lots, a e attribue sur appel d'offres international, respectivement
a l'Entreprise ASTALDI pour le lot IA (PK 0+00 au PK 25+800) et a la SNCTPC pour le lot lB
(PK 25+800 au PK 42+500).
Sur le lot IA, une variation importante est survenue avec l'ex6cution d'une variante de trace pour
la traversee de la vallee de la riviere Nyabarongo pour eviter que le trace initial de la route
traversant la vallee ne soit submerge suite a la future construction d'un barrage hydro-electrique en
aval du pont sur la Nyabarongo.
En tout, il a e amenage et asphalte 74 km de la route Gitarama-Kibuye et 6 km des bretelles de
Mabanza et de la ville de Kibuye pour un montant total de 60 406 701 dollars americains.
La surveillance et le controle des travaux de la route Gitarama-Kibuye ont ete r6alis6s par le
groupement SGI-TRACTEBEL pour un montant total de 4 796 933 dollars americains.
11.1.2. Routes en terre connexes a la route Gitarama-Kibuve:
Le programme de rehabilitation des routes en terre connexes a la route Gitarama-Kibuye, pr6par6
par le Ministere des Travaux Publics, Transports et Communications comprenait les routes
suivantes:
(i) Route Kibuye - Gasarenda
(ii) Route Mubuga - Ntendezi
(iii) Route Kibuye - Nyabisindu
(iv) Route Gashubi - Kazabe
- 39 -



Les dossiers d'execution de ces routes ont e r6a1is6s. Cependant, vu les contraintes budgetaires et
les delais de passation de marche et de realisation de travaux, seul le troncon Kibuye-Gisovu (riche
region theicole avec usine) a et r6habilit6, soit 43 km sur la route Kibuye-Gasarenda, pour un
montant total de 3 258 454 dollars am6ricains.
H.1.3. Route Rubeneera-Rueerero
82 kmn de la route en terre Rubengera-Rugerero reliant les provinces de Kibuye et Gisenyi, ont ete
r6habilites par l'entreprise ASTALDI pour un montant total de 5 295 129 dollars americains.
11 faut noter que le Gouvemement n'a m6nage aucun effort pour faciliter les conditions de travail a
l'entreprise et A la Mission de Contr6le vu que cette r6gion etait, a l'epoque, objet d'insurrections
par les infiltres.
La surveillance et Controle des travaux ont e  realises par le Bureau E.E.P DINIKA pour un
montant total de 645 945 dollars americains.
II.1.4. Entretien des routes en terre de la Voirie de Ia Ville de Kieali
Ces travaux d'entretien ont et subdivises en plusieurs petits lots pour favoriser l'emergence et le
developpement des capacites des PME locales,
Le PST n'a pu realiser que l'entretien de 27,1 km de certains trongons de Gikondo, Nyakabanda,
Nyamirambo, Rugenge, Kiniihurura et la route Sonatubes-Nyanza.
L'execution de ces travaux a e caracterisee par de nombreux problemes tels que:
i)     PME inexp6riment6es dans l'ex6cution des travaux sous-circulation en ville;
ii)    manque d'un reseau coherent d'assainissement des eaux pluviales;
iii)   forte presence de reseaux d'eau, de cables d'electricite et de telephone dans 1'emprise de la route;
iv)    expropriations.
Lors de la Phase II, une etude plus detaillee avec materialisation sur les plans de la presence des
cables ou tuyaux a deplacer et incluant un reseau de drainage, a ete r6alisee et un nouveau DAO a
e elabore et lance.
Une seule entreprise a remis son offre et apres analyse, le National Tender Board a sanctionne
l'appel d'offres infructueux. Ainsi, ces travaux n'ont pas pu etre realises.
11.1.5. Travaux d'entretien de la route a Circuit des volcans >
La route en terre reliant les regions volcaniques de Ruhengeri et Gisenyi tres riches en produits
agricoles a ete l'objet d'un entretien periodique sur financement du PST.
Au total 67 km de routes ont et entretenus par l'Entreprise ((Association Momentanee Astaldi Spa
et Astaldi International>> pour un montant total de 406.111.692 FRW.
La surveillance et le contr6le des travaux ont et realises par le bureau CONSULINT Sxr.l
-40 -



11.1.6. Contr8le de la charge A I'Essieu
Dans le but de sauvegarder le patrimoine routier et limiter les degradations causees par les usagers
sur les routes, le PST a finance I'acquisition et l'installation de 8 ponts bascules pour les mesures
et controle de la charge a 1'essieu. Ces ponts sont installes aux postes frontaliers (7) et un dans la
vile de Kigali.
11.1.7. Amelioration des conditions de securite routiere
Apres la guerre et le Genocide de 1994, la plupart du materiel de la securite routiere avait ete
completement endommage et le taux d'accidents etait tres e1eve.
Ainsi, sur financement du PST, un diagnostic sur l'etat de la securite routiere a e  mene et un
programme d'amelioration de la securite routiere a e etabli et mis en oeuvre;
i)     pour renforcer le contr6le routier, le projet i finance l'acquisition des equipements de contrOle:
jeeps, motos, radar, alcotest, etc..
ii)   il a et rehabilite et construit 14 feux de signalisation dans la ville de Kigali
iii)  il a e  realise des campagnes d'information et de sensibilisation en matiere de s6curite routiere et
de sauvegarde du patrimoine routier (limitation de vitesse, non consommation d'alcool par les conducteurs,
respect de la signalisation et de la reglementation routiere).
II a e utilise divers moyens suivants : seminaires, panneaux publicitaires, emissions radio,
communiques dans les journaux, documentation a la television...
iv)    mise en cuvre partielle du plan de circulation globale dans la ville de Kigali.
v)     un Centre de Contr6le Technique Automobile a e construit et equipe.
H.2. ASPECTS INSTITUTIONNELS
II.2.1. Fonds d'Entretien Routier (FER)
Un Fonds d'Entretien Routier de seconde gen6ration a ete mis sur pied par amendement de la loi
sur le Fonds Routier National en Avril 1999.
Le Nouveau Fonds d'Entretien Routier jouit d'une personnalit6 juridique et d'une autonomie de
gestion.
Le Conseil de gestion du FER est compose de neuf membres dont 4 sont issus du secteur priv6.
Le Projet a finance aussi une assistance technique pour la mise place d'un systeme d'organisation
inteme et d'un systeme de gestion financiere du FER.
II.2.2. RWoreanisation de la Direction des Ponts et Chauss6es
-      La Direction des Ponts et chaussees (7 divisions) a ete reorganisee en une nouvelle direction:  la
Direction des Routes composee de 3 Divisions de facon a mieux repondre a sa nouvelle mission a savoir:
la planification, la programmation et le suivi de l'execution des travaux d'entretien et d'extension du
reseau routier.
-      Un modele de systeme de gestion routiere adapte au reseau rwandais a ete propose par l'Assistance
Technique financee par le PST.
-41 -



-      Dans le meme cadre de reorganisation de la Direction des Ponts et Chaussees, un inventaire
exhaustif des engins, mat6riels et pieces detachees a ete effectue et il a et propos6 des mesures
d'accompagnement pour la mise en vente de cet important patrimoine i savoir:
i)     une vente seche des engins et pieces juges << epaves >> ou << a declasser >>
ii)    une vente/location des engins et pieces juges < bon ou passables >>.
II a ete vendu des engins juges <<i declasser )> ou << epaves >> situes a Kigali.
-      Le Projet a finance la confection d'un Dossier d'Appel d'offres pour travaux d'urgence adapte i la
situation physique et climatique du Rwanda et i la taille des entreprises presentes sur le marche.
-      Le Gouvemement s'est engage i ameliorer les performances du Laboratoire National des Travaux
Publics par la mise en place d'un systeme de gestion de type prive.
-      Le Gouvemement Rwandais a mis sur pied le Bureau Rwandais de Nornalisation et de Controle.
II.2.3. Reelementation sur la Securite Routifre
-      Un draft de l'Arrete Presidentiel sur le Code de Roulage et la securite routiere (inspection
technique, charge i l'essieu ...) a ete prepar6, approuv6 et est en cours de signature .
-      Le Gouvemement est entrain de finaliser le recrutement d'un operateur prive experimente pour la
gestion du Centre de Contr6le Technique Automobile.
11.2A Formation et Divers
-      Le Projet a finance la participation aux seminaires de formation des agents du Minitraco, de la
MVK et du FER pour mieux repondre i leurs nouvelles missions.
-      L'execution de 1'etude de faisabilite de l'asphaltage de la route Kicukiro-Nyamata-Nemba a ete
realise sur financement du projet.
-      Une etude sur l'opportunite et modalite de mise en place d'une Agence d'Execution des Travaux
d'Interet Public (AGETIP) au Rwanda a e r6alisee.
m.     ETAT GENERAL DES DECAISSEMENTS
Les montants totaux des decaissements sont:
IDA                   63.662.845,29 DTS   (99,18 %)
SUISSE               :15.000.000 CHF      (100 %)
GOUVERNEMENT          782.205.282 RWF
IV. PROBLEMES MAJEURS RENCONTRES LORS DE L'EXECUTION DU
PROGRAMME
-      Une borme partie des acquis du projet d'avant 1994 ont et detruits par le Genocide d'avril 1994.
-      Retrait de certains co-financiers du Projet i la reprise en 1995 qui a fait que le Projet n'a pas pu
atteindre tous les objectifs lui assignes.
-      De plus, les principales caracteristiques du trace de la route Gitarama-Kibuye ont et6 revues a la
baisse pour pouvoir reduire les cofits du Projet.
-      Le programme des travaux d'entretien de la voirie de Kigali n'a pas pu etre achev6 par manque de
capacites des PME.
-      Faible coordination entre l'Administration routiere de la ville de Kigali et les societes d'utilites
Publiques (Eau, electricite, telephone) quant i la programmation, le financement et la mise en ceuvre des
-42 -



travaux routiers, l'installation et le deplacement des tuyaux et cables dans la voirie urbaine.
-      II est apparu un phenomene inattendu sur le lot IB de la route Gitarama-Kibuye. En effet, a neuf
mois apres la reception provisoire, il est apparu des degradations localisees de type chimique. Une expertise
des degradations ci haut citees a 6te menee et les solutions sont en cours de discussion avec l'entreprise.
-      Leger retard dans le reglement des indemnites d'expropriation des personnes affectees par les
travaux routiers particuli&rement dans la ville de Kigali.
-      Une exceptionnelle, forte et longue pluviosite a cause des retards dans l'execution des travaux et
des cofits supplementaires.
-      Difficulte dans la mise en aeuvre des reformes institutionnelles.
V. PERFORMANCE DE LA BANOUE MONDIALE
-      A la reprise des activites en Mai 1995, la Banque a envoye une mission de restructuration du projet
qui a red6fini avec le gouvemement, les actions prioritaires au vue des nouvelles conditions
socio-economiques.
-      Plusieurs fois par an, la Banque a envoye des missions de supervision. Celles-ci ont effectue des
visites sur terrain, ont men6 des discussions avec les autorites rwandaises et differents partenaires
concernms, et se sont rendus compte de I'etat d'avancement du projet.
A l'issue de chaque mission, des observations et recommandations ont e  formulees a
travers des aides-m6moire, ce qui a 6te d'une grande utilite pour le bon avancement des
activites du projet.
-      Vu les conditions economiques difficiles du Rwanda, la Banque a exceptionnellement accepte la
prise en charge a 100 % de toutes les categories de depenses.
-      La Banque a facilit6 a l'Unite de Coordination du Projet le decaissement des fonds qui s'est
effectue sans problemes majeurs.
-      Le suivi du Projet par la Banque A travers les Audits et les revues du portefeuille a permis
d'ameliorer les performances dans l'execution du projet.
-      La Banque a r6pondu favorablement A la requete du Gouvernement de suppleer le retrait du
financement europeen sur la route Gitaramna-Kibuye
VI. PERFORMANCE DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
-      Le Gouvernement rwandais a ratifie par des lois, I'Accord de Credit initial ainsi que le credit
supplementaire.
-      Le Gouvemement a financ6 comme contrepartie au projet, les frais d'expropriation de la
population dont les biens ont et endommages par les travaux routiers pour un montant total estime a
782.205.282 FRW.
-      Le Gouvernement a accord6 une attention soutenue aux reformes institutionnelles dans le secteur
routier en mettant en place un nouveau cadre 1lgislatif et de nouvelles institutions chargees de la gestion
routiere.
-      Le Gouvernement a assure convenablement la securite des personnes et equipements aux differents
chantiers particulierement durant la p6riode d'insurrection au Nord-Ouest du pays.
-      Le Gouvernement, A travers le Ministere des Travaux Publics, Transports et Communications, la
Mairie de la Ville de Kigali, les Prefectures de Gitarama, Kibuye, Ruhengeri et Gisenyi et le Ministere des
Finances et de la Planification Economiques, a suivi de pres et reguli&ement l'execution du projet, et a
donne des suggestions et conseils visant le bon avancement des activites du projet.
VII. DURABILITE ET VIABILITE DES REALISATIONS DU PROJET
-43 -



-      D'une facon generale, le Projet Sectoriel de Transport a realis6 solidement ses travaux,
particulierement les r6alisations du genie civil. Les realisation du PST, vu leur qualite conforme aux regles
de l'art, vont mre utilisables pendant plusieurs annees.
-      Cependant vues les conditions topographiques et la forte pluviometrie au Rwanda, des dispositions
adequates doivent etre prises pour assurer un entretien preventif de maniere reguliere.
-      Les reformes introduites dans le secteur par le projet devraient garantir un cadre adequat de gestion
et de financement de l'entretien routier. Neanmoins, malgre des avances considerables sur le plan des
reformes dans le secteur routier, les nouvelles institutions mise en place dans le cadre du projet demeurent
encore fragiles. Ces reformes necessitent une consolidation par la finalisation d'un certain nombre d'actions
restantes dont la non execution pourrait compromettre la prennisation et la soutenabilite des acquis du
projet.
-      Le personnel de l'Administration et des PME forme a acquis des connaissances qui lui ont permis
d'ameliorer durablement sa performance technique et de la contribuer davantage au developpement
economique du pays.
-      L'impact benefique des routes dejA palpable et les campagnes de sensibilisation et information
aupres de la population beneficiaire, permettent d'envisager une participation effective de cette demiere
dans la sauvegarde et l'entretien du patrimoine routier.
VIII. LECONS TIREES ET RECOMMANDANTIONS
-      Le Projet a pu etablir un bilan globalement positif dans l'execution du projet pilote des routes
communales. Partant de cette exp6rience, une nouvelle structure du type (< Agence d'Execution de Travaux
d'Interet Public )> (AGETIP) devrait etre mise sur pied pour continuer sur la meme voie.
-      Renforcer l'approche programmatique et participative au niveau du secteur de transport et
ameliorer la coordination des differents partenaires (bailleurs de fonds, secteur priv6, gouvemements
central et locaux..). Inviter chaque bailleur de fonds a financer un certain nombre de projets bien definis au
sein d'un programme coherent et eviter que deux ou plusieurs bailleurs de fonds cofinancent un m&ne
projet.
-      Pour maximiser l'effet benefique deja palpable de la route Gitarama-Kibuye et son impact dans le
cadre de la reduction de la pauvrete, il faut continuer et achever le programme de routes connexes.
-      La problematique du deplacement des tuyaux d'eau et de cables electriques et de telephone dans le
cadre du programme de rehabilitation de la voirie urbaine devrait etre integree dans un projet urbain
specifique.
-      La formation, l'infonmation et la concertation doivent etre utilisees pour rendre plus efficaces les
administrations (centrale et d6centralis6es) et les operateurs prives (bureau d'etudes et PME), et pour
ameliorer leurs relations de partenariat.
-      Le cout eleve des travaux de la route Gitarama-Kibuye (probablement par manque de competition
elargie) a greve les resultats du projet en terme de lineaire rehabilite ou entretenue. II est crucial de
mobiliser des ressources pour financer cette rehabilitation pour pallier au deficit prolonge d'entretien.
-      La mise en place des r6formes a pemis d'amrliorer la gestion du secteur. Neanmoins, les nouvelles
institutions mises en place ne sont pas encore pleinement fonctionnelles. Et c'est dans le souci de perenniser
ces acquis encore fragiles du Projet, qu'une nouvelle operation dans le secteur devrait etre programm6e
nimmdiatement pour assurer une continmite, eviter une dislocation de tous ces acquis et combler le deficit
d'entretien par un programme de rehabilitation.
-44 -



-45 -









Report No.:        24937
Type:     ICR



