Report No. PID9465
Project Name                     Rwanda-Supplemental Transport Sector Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       RWPE2238
Borrower(s)                      Republic of Rwanda
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Public Works and Ministry of
Transport and Communications
Date PID updated                 August 24, 2000
Country Economic and Sector Background
1.      The Economic and Social Context. Rwanda has experienced falling per
capita income and increasing poverty since the late 1980s. Almost all social
indicators have fallen significantly since then. Per capita income declined
from a peak of US$380 in 1987 to US$250 in 1993. This rapid decline was due
partly to the civil unrest in the country and partly to weak policies and
mismanagement of resources. The situation was worsened by the civil war of
1994 which took over 1 million lives and a flight of approximately 2 million
to neighboring countries. GDP fell sharply in 1994 by 49 percent of its 1990
level, and per capita income was estimated at US$150.
2.      The new Government of National Unity, formed in July 1994 at the end of
the war, inherited a shattered economy and debilitated economic and social
institutions. The economy rebounded in 1995, and continued its upward swing
in 1996, fueled by relative political stability, credible macro-economic
management and large external aid flows. This trend is continuing in 1997,
following the massive return of over 1.2 million refugees in the last months
of 1996. Nevertheless, GDP at the end of 1996 had only recovered to 70
percent of its 1990 level and per capita income was estimated at US$180 at
the end of 1996, making Rwanda one of the poorest countries in the World. A
prolonged period of conflict from 1990, culminating in the genocide of 1994,
has left the economy structurally very fragile.
3.      The Government of Rwanda (GOR) has been working with the support of the
international community to address the social and economic problems,
rehabilitate infrastructure, and rebuild administrative, judicial and social
institutions. Progress was made in resettling internally displaced persons,
reintegrating refugees, providing assistance to vulnerable groups, and
enhancing peace and security. Recently, the focus of government policy has
shifted from relief and humanitarian assistance, to development, although
humanitarian efforts targeted at vulnerable groups are continuing and Rwanda
is still facing the prospect of heavy budget deficits for some years to come.
4.      The Government's development objectives include the promotion of
national reconciliation, economic and social integration of all vulnerable
groups including refugees, the reform of the economy for rapid and
sustainable growth. The Government is putting priority on agriculture and
rural development, to improve rural incomes and reduce poverty. The key
elements of its strategy are to assist farmers to increase productivity in
food and export crops, promote rural markets and non-agricultural



enterprises, develop high value export crops, and reduce internal and
external transport costs. Regional trade and commerce is important to the
Rwandese economy. Rwanda is positioning itself to gain from the enhanced
prospects for peace and economic upturn in Eastern Africa and the Great Lakes
Region by improving its internal infrastructure and external links.
5. Sector Background. Rwanda is a landlocked country with a hilly to
mountainous topography and densely settled population living almost
exclusively from subsistence farming and tea and coffee production. In this
setting, sound transport infrastructure is crucial in reducing the isolation
of the country from its neighbors, and that of one region of the country from
another. Infrastructure has been given a high priority in Rwandese
development planning and has become particularly necessary in the new
regional setting. The policy objectives encouraged by IDA and other donors
are to: (i) improve international transport connections; (ii) upgrade to
paved standard, the key roads of the network to facilitate the country's
access and its social and administrative integration; (iii) lower transport
costs for the rural areas to improve the returns to the farmers; (iv) ensure
better management and financing of the maintenance of the road network in
general; and (v) improve road safety.
6. Rwanda has a reasonably good network of primary roads and a good base of
feeder roads. However, the secondary and feeder roads have suffered from a
prolonged period of poor maintenance due to the civil war and poor management
of resources of the old Road Fund. This situation is worsening with the
scarcity of resources, as the current Road Fund is collecting only about US$4
million per annum, compared to US$10 million per annum, pre-war level. The
situation is more critical in the agricultural area of Kibuye which misses an
essential link to the capital, and where poor maintenance of feeder roads
leading to markets is affecting the income of about 1.5 million farmers.
Equally affected, is the densely populated area of Kigali, where the lack of
maintenance of the road network is endangering the hilly neighborhoods,
particularly, because of a lack of proper drainage works. Rwanda is also
lacking equipment (damaged during the war), regulations and enforcement
measures for heavy vehicle axle load control, mainly at the borders. This
contributes to damaging the road network. Collection of funds cover currently
less than 20 percent of the road maintenance needs, and it is estimated that
2 to 3 years are needed to reach the pre-war level of funding, making it
necessary for donors such as IDA to fill the gap now, and to participate in
the road maintenance program. This would help ensure the sustainability of
the new road maintenance policy of privatization, while the pre-war level of
road maintenance funds is being restored.
7. The current Government of Rwanda has shown strong commitment in
implementing sound road maintenance policy. Reforms were undertaken to
replace the former force account by private contractors and create a Road
Fund dedicated to road maintenance. The transport sector investments and
institutional measures included in the ongoing project were aimed in
particular at supporting this policy. The original credit for the current
Transport Sector Project was for SDR31.1 million and became effective in
March, 1991. The original objectives of the project were to (i) protect
capital investment in roads through improved maintenance; (ii) strengthen
institutions in the sector through better planning and resource mobilization;
(iii) promote communal development and better economic integration through
improved communal roads; (iv) improve access to the Kibuye Prefecture; (v)
-2 -



support lake transport; and (vi) improve road safety. This program also had
important policy dimensions such as streamlining the regulatory environment,
financing of sectoral expenditures, and improving institutional arrangements
and responsibilities in the sector. In the execution of the above program,
discussions had stalled with the previous government on privatization of road
maintenance, refocusing the functions of the Road Directorate to planning and
supervision of works to be executed by the private sector, and better
financial discipline in the management of the Road Fund.
Background and Rationale for the Supplemental Credit and Project
8.      Bank Strategy and Donor Support. After the war, the Bank strategy and
donor support focused on providing emergency assistance to jump-start the
economy. Leveraging Bank resources with other donors funding was an integral
part of this strategy. Particularly, the Board approved in January 1995 an
Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC) of US$50 million equivalent for a broad
economic sectors support, and in June 1997, an Emergency Reintegration and
Recovery Credit (ERRC) of US $50 million equivalent was approved to finance
selected activities of the national budget. In addition to this, the Bank
prepared a framework for restructuring the portfolio of 12 projects to ensure
its relevance to the immediate problems being faced by the country. The
ongoing Transport Sector operation represents 20 percent of this portfolio
and includes a grant of SWF15 million from the Swiss Development Cooperation
(SDC). The project disburses to local -and international civil works
contractors and consultants, about US$1.5 to 2.0 million quarterly to assist
in establishing capacity for road maintenance by the private sector,
reconstruction of the main road links in the west of the country, and in
establishing a sustainable mechanism for management and financing of road
maintenance. With the exception of the ERRC and the Private Sector
Development Project, all the credits in the Bank portfolio are scheduled to
close before the end of 1998.
9.      The Country Assistance Strategy is being prepared in close consultation
with Government. The CAS is emphasizing the transition from post-war
emergency to sustainable growth, and has three related principal themes: (i)
social and economic reintegration of refugees and vulnerable groups and
national reconciliation; (ii) consolidation of the economic recovery and
reconstruction; and (iii) laying the basis for accelerated sustainable
growth. Urban and rural infrastructure maintenance and improvement would
support and sustain the economic recovery and growth. This includes expanding
the level of maintenance of the primary and secondary road network,
strengthening the institutional capacity to sustain this activity in the
future, and upgrading the essential road links to neighboring countries to
facilitate resettlement, access of farmers to markets, improve revenues and
rural household welfare through reduced transport costs, and to support
regional integration. The CAS is scheduled for discussions with the Executive
Directors in March 1998.
10.     Progress and Experience Under the Ongoing Operation. When project
execution was resumed after the 1994 civil war, the ongoing Transport Sector
project was about 3 years old and 20 percent executed. Its objectives were
refocused to better address the changed country conditions and the critical
needs identified post-war. Namely, the project was restructured to achieve:
(i) the completion of the Gitarama-Kibuye road to reduce transport cost for
-3 -



farmers, mainly coffee and tea farmers, and improve the integration of the
Kibuye Prefecture into the rest of the region; (ii) better management
capacity in the sector; (iii) the transformation of the National Road Fund by
setting up a new Road Maintenance Fund, independently managed by a board
comprised mainly of road users and aimed at effectively collecting and
allocating funds to priority needs, and facilitating the payment of
maintenance works to be executed by private entrepreneurs, including local
SMEs. This replaced the former inefficient force account practices; (iv)
better road safety, especially in the populated area of Kigali where road
accidents have reached a crisis level.
11.     Status of the Gitarama-Kibuye Road Reconstruction. The Gitarama-Kibuye
road links the capital Kigali to the coffee and tea producing region of
Kibuye and links Rwanda to the Kivu region of the Democratic Republic of
Congo (DRC). It serves about 20 percent of the national population which
depends mainly on this road for access of their production to markets. The
reconstruction of the Gitarama-Kibuye road was resumed in September 1996 on
the section (35 km) cofinanced by IDA and the SDC, and this section is
scheduled to be completed around August 1998. Besides this road section, the
project has completed the reconstruction of two earth roads from Kibuye to
the DRC border in the north and south, which are essential to complete the
network in the west of Rwanda. The works on the remaining critical section of
40 km of the Gitarama-Kibuye road which were to be financed by the European
Union (EU), as originally agreed, did not resume. The cost for this section
is estimated at US$23 million. The EU recently informed the Government that
it would require an additional year in order to resume on this section
because the contract which had been let was cancelled and the entire process
would have to be restarted again. In light of this delay and given the social
and economic importance of this road for the country, the Government
requested the EU to reallocate its funds to other priorities in the sector
which are not time sensitive and to provide support for improvement in
aviation sector management. Following those discussions with the EU and in
order to capitalize on the respective achievements of each institution in the
sector, the GOR requested this supplemental credit from IDA to focus on
strengthening the road maintenance policy and management, and completion of
the critical Gitarama-Kibuye road section of the main network.
12.     Status of Road Maintenance Policy. The post-war Government of 1994 has
fully supported a policy of privatization of the execution of road
maintenance works. Here, substantial progress has been achieved; in
particular, (i) the management of the Road Maintenance Fund has improved and
is working reasonably well, and (ii) the function of the Road Directorate has
been concentrated on planning and supervision of works to be executed by
private contractors, with the purpose of phasing out the former force account
arrangements. The old Road Fund (Fonds Routier National) was made
operational, and taking advantage of the new situation, its legal,
institutional and managerial set-up was revised. A new law has been drafted.
That draft law, based on the current best practices of road fund schemes in
Africa, will remedy most of the defects of the old Fonds Routier National. It
includes provisions for (i) independent decision-making power vested into a
board with major representation of road users; (ii) ensuring the sound and
secure collection of revenues from road user charges; and (iii) preventing
misallocation of funds. This new law has obtained support in cabinet and is
being finalized for parliamentary discussion.
- 4 -



13.     Limitations exist however, to make this new policy sustainable as
follows: (i) there is now the need to strengthen the capacity of the Road
Directorate to perform its new duties; (ii) the privatization of the road
maintenance is still embryonic and requires a critical mass of investment to
serve as a vehicle to provide on the job training of the private contractors
and staff of the Road Directorate for planning and supervision of works to
improve efficiency and effectiveness; (iii) it is critical to supplement now
the limited resources of the Road Fund to expand the current level of
maintenance and help anchor the new practices until the Fund reaches or
exceeds its pre-war potential.
14.     Status of the Road Safety Program. A national road safety program is
being completed, including rehabilitation of traffic lights in Kigali,
markings and signals in urban areas; a traffic code has been established and
institutional support is being provided to the Directorate of Transport to
enhance its capacity in traffic flow management and planning. A vehicle
control center is planned. Remaining issues include, establishment of
regulations and enforcement for axle load limits and driving licensing
management.
15.     Rationale for IDA Supplemental Financing. The new situation has
seriously curtailed the ability of the Government to complete an important
road link, its own resources being far too limited to fill the gap. This
greatly impedes access of the tea and coffee farmers of the Kibuye area to
markets. Their income is currently, 10 to 15 times lower than that of the
coffee farmers of other regions, partly due to transport cost premium charged
by the few buyers who reach the area. In addition to this, 5 percent of the
green leaves tea production is discarded, about 300 T in 1996, for lack of
quick access to the factory.
16.     Delaying further the completion of this investment will increase its
cost and impede resettlement and the economic and social development in the
Kibuye area. After the war, IDA has played an important role in the Transport
Sector in assisting GOR to rebuild institutional capacity, bring the focus on
improvement and maintenance of road assets as an integral part of rebuilding
social cohesion and establishing the framework for development. IDA's
continued presence through this supplemental financing would help consolidate
the results achieved and complete an essential road link to promote
agricultural production and exports, to contribute to improvement in the
income of the rural households of the area. The financing of road maintenance
for two years to help train private sector contractors to improve efficiency
and effectiveness, maintain the level of financing necessary during the
establishment of the new Road Fund and to strengthen the capacity of the Road
Directorate to plan and supervise road maintenance activities, is likely to
have a sustained impact on such activities in the future.
17.     In summary, a key element of the Government's program for economic
recovery and the Bank's assistance strategy is to strengthen infrastructure
and its sustainable management. A related priority is to improve the
condition of the few remaining weak links in the main roads network and to
establish new institutional arrangements for efficient management, financing,
arid maintenance of the road system. The supplemental credit is designed to
squarely serve this strategy.
Project Objectives
-5-



18.     In line with the new country conditions, the project will pursue and
complete the program of policies formulated by the GOR for the initial
credit. Specifically, the supplemental credit would: (i) improve road access
in the Kibuye area to assist in voluntary resettlement, social cohesion, and
support re-establishment of agriculture activities, especially; production of
coffee and tea for export; (ii) improve the main road link to an economically
significant neighboring country, the DRC; (iii) consolidate progress achieved
in transport policy by providing support to the institutions for a
sustainable private sector based road maintenance activity; and (iv) pursue
improvements in road safety.
Project Description
19.     To achieve the objectives above, the supplemental credit, with a total
estimated cost of US$45 million equivalent, would include the components
below; due to the current budgetary constraints of the GOR, IDA would finance
100 percent of the cost of the project, excluding local taxes and duties.
(a) upgrading and paving of the remaining critical 40 km section of the
Gitarama-Kibuye road (US$23 million, 51 percent of project cost) to realize
the full benefits of improving this main road link;
(b) rehabilitation and maintenance by SMEs of 550 km of secondary/feeder
communal roads linked to the Gitarama-Kibuye road (US$8.5 million, 19 percent
of project cost), in order to facilitate farm-to-main road access as well as
improved social connections from villages to regional centers and to support
privatization of road maintenance;
(c) rehabilitation and maintenance by SMEs of 80 Km of urban roads in the
capital city of Kigali (US$8.8 million, 19.6 percent of project cost), to
mainly improve drainage systems and to support the privatization of road
maintenance;
(d) acquisition and installation of equipment for measurement and control of
vehicle axle load, traffic signals and markings (US$2.5 million, 4.5 percent
of project cost);
(e) Technical assistance (US$2.0 million, 4.5 percent of project cost) for
design and supervision of works; on the job training of small and medium
scale road construction and maintenance contractors; establishment of
procedures, sanctions and training for enforcement of vehicle axle load
control and updating of road safety regulations; and country wide
sensitization campaigns for road safety; and
(f) operating costs (US$0.2 million), for project related costs of office
supplies, consumable and costs related to travel by project staff.
Project Implementation
20.     The proposed supplementary project would not require additional
implementation capacities beyond those already existing for the ongoing
project and would help consolidate them. The larger rehabilitation and
upgrading works are currently supervised by specialized engineering firms.
Concerning the road maintenance issue, the Ministry of Public Works
(MINITRAPE) has undertaken reforms with the Road Directorate and established
- 6 -



a Road Maintenance Unit which is being trained and equipped to prepare
contract documents and assess tenders for maintenance-related tasks to be
carried out by the private sector, and to monitor the fulfillment of those
contracts. The unit assisted by specialized engineers would become a central
element for improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of the private
contractors for road maintenance. The Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MINITRANSCO) will oversee the implementation of the road
safety campaigns and vehicle axle load control. A management accounting
system is already in place and the ongoing project is satisfactorily audited
annually.
Project Sustainability
21.     The Government has already taken adequate measures to put in place a
sound base for the sustainable management and financing of road maintenance
by (i) approving a new law on the Road Fund to be independently managed by
road users and (ii) reorganizing the Road Directorate. It has also
strengthened collection measures to provide adequate funds for road
maintenance in the future. The project would reinforce this set-up by
training local civil works contractors selected on a competitive basis and
staff of the Road Directorate to improve road maintenance capacity,
efficiency and effectiveness.
22.     The proposed financing of communal and urban roads maintenance works
would provide a leverage to monitor and ensure the successful implementation
of the privatization of road maintenance. This project should help anchor and
expand the use and capacity of private contractors started under the ongoing
project and help fill the gap due to the current low level of resources while
the Road Funds capacity is being build up. This is likely to have a sustained
positive impact on the sector.
Environment Impact
23.     The rehabilitation and maintenance of urban and communal roads included
in the project are not expected to generate any significant environmental
problems since the works would be done on existing road ways, utilizing
existing quarries and asphalt plants.
24.     An environmental assessment of the Gitarama-Kibuye road paving was
carried out in 1990
during the preparation of the ongoing project. It recommended that
particular. attention be given to (i) the disposal of excess material from
road work, (ii) the relocation of any families displaced by the works and
(iii) road safety. The Government responded satisfactorily to those
recommendations as follows:
(a) excess material from road work was carried to and arranged in specially
engineered areas and provided additional usable land in a country where such
issue is a critical one. Local and international non governmental
organizations requested that these areas be used to promote community
activities which included income generating activities. This arrangement will
remain in the new project. The appropriate dispositions will be included in
the works contract.
(b) with regards to the relocation of displaced families, the 1990 assessment
- 7 -



identified 16 families for which appropriate dispositions were proposed by
the Government. When the project activities resumed in 1995 after the civil
war, a combination of the effects of the destruction of property and
displacement of people by the war, and a. redesign of the technical
specifications to the existing road way, have eliminated the need for
relocation. However, the works will affect some farms. Government has
satisfactorily agreed with the farmers and budgeted a reasonable
compensation. This approach will be followed in the new project.
(c) Concerning road safety, a redesign of the technical specifications to the
existing road way has reduced the maximum speed from 100 km per hour to about
60 km per hour. This, together with appropriate markings and signals to be
installed, should help improve the road safety conditions.
Agreements
25.     The agreed actions, as amended, would apply to this supplemental
financing. No additional actions are required except for the needed legal
opinion on the supplemental agreement a& a condition of effectiveness.
Economic Justification of the Gitarama-Kibuye Road
26.     Completion of a Sealed Main Roads Network. The Kigali-Kibuye road
provides the only central east-west link across the country. However, the
present road is largely unengineered and its condition is bad; in dry
weather, the road surface is very rough and in wet weather the road is
largely impassable. As a result, traffic volumes are low. Most existing
traffic between the vicinity of Kibuye and Kigali takes a circuitous route
(approximately twice as long). Kibuye is the only prefecture not linked to
the capital, the main business center, by a paved road that provides
year-round, all weather passability. Under the present circumstances, use of
the road is not viable for most potential traffic. Also, the lack of
transport security and reliable access are matters of serious concern. The
broad corridor covered by the road involves a population of approximately 1.5
million, or one-fifth of the national total. The 35 km section of the road
from Kibuye towards Gitarama is being upgraded to sealed under the current
project. The remaining section of 40 km from Gitarama towards Kibuye proposed
in this project is the critical remaining weak link. Completion of this
section would link the prefectures of Kibuye, Gitarama and Kigali with a
sealed, all-weather road.
27.     Basis of Economic Rate of Return. The ERR for the Gitarama-Kibuye road,
all sections, was evaluated at 13 percent in 1989 and is estimated
conservatively to remain at that level. This estimate was based primarily on
savings in vehicle operation costs (VOC) quantified for the analysis on the
basis of the general methodology of the Highway Design Model (HDM). Growth in
traffic was estimated at 4 percent annually. The civil war of 1994 and the
economic and social disruption, together with the neglect of maintenance,
have distorted the current profile of demand for road use. However, the
economic scenario which was used in the original economic analysis remains
pertinent, because there is strong evidence that previous levels of key
economic activities are being restored. People are returning to their areas,
rebuilding their houses and resuming productive lives. Coffee and tea
production has recovered from the 1994 lows, and are 60 percent and 100
percent of 1990 levels respectively. Coffee production is expected to reach
- 8 -



the pre-war level by 1999 and tea production is expected to double.
28.     This assessment is conservative as other substantial benefits which have
not been quantified will accrue: time savings (which is essential for quality
and high value of green tea); reduction of damage to freight (which is
substantial for many agricultural products). For example, in 1996, 5 percent
of the total tea leaves production of 6,000 T was discarded due to poor road
transport conditions. The 1989 appraisal estimated the VOC for a light truck
on this road for example at US$ 1.00 per vehicle-km. The prolonged lack of
maintenance on this road has contributed to an increase in almost all
elements of the VOC. It is now estimated, for the same vehicle, at US$3.40
per km. Significant improvement in VOC should occur with completion of the
road works.
29.     In addition, this economic assessment does not include the likely
contribution of this road towards improved social accessibility and national
cohesion which are critical today to return Rwanda on the path to
development. The planned improvement of many secondary and communal roads
linking up with the Gitarama-Kibuye main road, not included in the previous
project, enhances further the benefits of the investment. These additional
feeder roads should help share farm income gains and other expenditure
savings from lower transport costs, among a larger number of local small
scale farmers. Reduced transport costs via savings in VOCs and travel time,
as well as year-round passability, should contribute to improving rural
welfare. These savings can be expected to be passed on to road users in the
form of higher net incomes to farmers, lower prices of delivered goods to
rural households, and greatly improved accessibility of rural communities to
basic social services, especially health clinics, hospitals, and schools (see
Map). For example, the income of the coffee farmers of the Kibuye area would
improve. They sell now at RWF300 to 320 per kilo while elsewhere, the
farmer's income is RWF700 to 800 per kilo. This loss in revenues for the
Kibuye area is partially attributable to the additional cost of transport due
to the condition of the primary and secondary roads. Their current revenue,
therefore, should be expected to improve substantially.
30.     Economic Alternative. The economic justification above, relies on the
re-establishment (and expansion) of economic activities to the pre-war level.
To fully address the potential risk of this assumption, the recommendation to
upgrade the proposed Gitarama-Kibuye road section to sealed standards was
weighted against the alternative of improving this section to gravel
standards as an interim step. The results of this comparison show that, (i)
construction cost of such an option would be only 15 percent below that of a
sealed, all weather road; (ii) the annual maintenance cost was 10 times
greater and (iii) the road needed to be reconstructed every two years
(against a 15 year life cycle for the sealed one) under the current road
maintenance environment, given the high rainfall (over 1200 mm per year) in
the road corridor and the steep to hilly terrain. Under such circumstances, a
sealed road is the best and leastlife-cycle-cost alternative.
Other Benefits of the Supplemental Project
31.     The supplemental project directly supports the Government's strategy to
move the economy from relief and humanitarian assistance to development.
Completion of the upgrading to paved standard of the Gitarama-Kibuye section,
in combination with the financing of needed road maintenance activities at a
-9-



critical time, can be expected to yield real benefits to Rwanda, especially
in the following areas:
(i) Improved Regional Transport. The proposed 40-km road section will not
only complete the critical Gitarama-Kibuye road link but it will allow full
realization of the benefits that will flow from the completion of the entire
length of the road from Kigali to Kibuye, which represents the central
east-west link in Rwanda's road network. This link is part of the regional
road network which links Western Rwanda with eastern Congo, both north and
south of Lake Kivu. The re-establishment of sub-regional road links is an
overall objective of the Bank and the Government. This objective has now
become even more relevant given the new political conditions prevailing in
the Great Lakes region. The ongoing project is not only upgrading a major
section of the Gitarama-Kibuye road, but it has already rehabilitated the
roads between Kibuye and the Congo borders to the north and south. As a
result, if the reconstruction/upgrading of the proposed 40-km remaining road
section was not undertaken, economic benefits (originally associated with the
current transport sector project) would be significantly reduced. More
generally, completion of the link to paved standard, promotes the integration
of the western region of Rwanda with the rest of the country.
(ii) Benefits Associated with Rural Restoration and Development. The proposed
upgrading will ensure reliable and viable transport services along the
corridor and thereby alleviate prevailing constraints in the efficient
movement of major agriculture commodities, mainly coffee and tea. The Kibuye
region has a reputation for producing some of the best tea and (arabica)
coffee in the world. This road will play a very visible role in underpinning
confidence for reestablishing farms and crops that were abandoned during the
civil war and mass exodus. In addition, it will give support to information
diffusion and extension services for improving agricultural productivity.
(iii) Benefits of Social, Economic and Political Integration. Lower transport
costs and improved accessibility will foster social and economic exchange and
will assist in the voluntary resettlement and reintegration of the large
numbers of refugee returnees by opening-up farm restoration opportunities and
related employment possibilities. Also most important at present, improved
accessibility will also promote national integration, cohesion, and security.
(iv) Benefits of road maintenance activities. These would be : (a) avoidance
of costly reconstruction expenditures at a later date through more timely
maintenance; (b) reduction of road accident risks from improved road; (c)
improvement of efficiency and effectiveness of private contractors and the
Road Directorate; (d) improvement of the Road Fund for better cost recovery
and financial support for future road maintenance.
(v) Benefits of Improved Sector Policy. The supplemental credit will
facilitate continued dialogue with the consolidation of a number of key areas
for sector reform and more efficient institutional arrangements. Among the
most important are passage of the new road fund legislation, implementation
of vehicle axle load limits and their enforcement, revision of road user
charges, and strengthening of the new focus of the Road Directorate on
developing its capability to manage the road system and contracting the
delivery of road maintenance to the private sector.
(vi) Benefits of Local Employment. Temporary road construction jobs using
- 10 -



SMEs and longer-term road maintenance employment for local villagers will
flow from the project. Employment of local labor is 800 to 1200 people per
month on the ongoing works. Labor intensive works on communal roads involve
from experience, 15,000 to 30,000 people per month for works similar to those
under the project. Based also on past experience, part of the earnings often
can be saved and used to generate the initial capital for the creation of
other sustainable commercial activities, such as shops, restaurants and other
small businesses.
(vii) Benefits of Road Safety. The road safety program would continue to
contribute to a reduction in the number of serious accidents. The existing
Gitarama-Kibuye road is poorly engineered and in many areas has no
well-formed shoulders. Its improvement can be expected to improve road
safety.
(viii) Other Potential Benefits. A number of development prospects are
possible in the longer term in the Kibuye prefecture. These include domestic
and foreign tourism along Lake Kivu, adoption of Kibuye as a transshipment
location for cement and beer products from the south destined primarily for
Kigali, and timber from the Congo, and the bottling of natural methane gas
from proven sources in Lake Kivu.
Project Objectives Categories
32.     The project would contribute directly to the re-establishment of a
conducive framework for sustainable development by improving and preserving
an essential link of the country's road infrastructure and by providing
resources at a critical time for road maintenance. It would also make a
significant contribution to reenergizing the private sector through the
privatization of road maintenance works. The project would also assist in
improving farmers income by providing reliable access roads to markets at
lower transportation costs.
Poverty-alleviation Measures.
33.     The supplemental credit is primarily designed to support the GOR
economic growth strategy. However, while the project is not specifically and
directly targeted at poverty reduction, it will substantially assist the
rural communities in the west of Rwanda, especially in the prefecture of
Kibuye, where poverty and food insecurity are particularly acute. The project
will assist in alleviating poverty by lowering transport costs facing poor
farmers and providing reliable all weather passability for access to basic
health and education services by poor rural households. Since road services
(haulage of freight and passenger services) are becoming reasonably
competitive, the benefits of improved road conditions, particularly reduced
VOCs, can be expected to be passed on to users with a positive impact on
farmer income and lowering of prices of delivered goods to village
communities.
34.     In addition, the proposed improvement of several secondary and communal
feeder roads linking important productive areas to the Gitarama-Kibuye main
road, will increase VOC savings and extend the share of project benefits to
those local populations not living directly adjacent to the main road. Today,
many poor farmers do not have access to motorized transport due to the bad
condition of secondary/communal roads. This specific project component is
- 11 -



therefore likely to directly improve the welfare of households in rural
communities, the majority of whom are poor. The incomes of poor rural
households would also be supplemented during project implementation through
the employment of local villages ( including women) in road construction
activity and later, in routine road maintenance.
Participatory Approach
35.     The project preparation involved government officials of the Ministry of
Public Works, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry Transport and
Communications, as well as local authorities and constituents in the Kibuye
area, and officials of the City of Kigali for the selection of the communal
and urban roads. The traffic police, the association of road haulers has been
involved in the preparation and implementation of the road safety program.
Risks.
36.     The main project risk is a resurgence of political instability and
violence in Rwanda. The return of 1.3 million refugees from neighboring
countries has reduced the risk of instability from outside of the country.
There are still internal security problems; however, they have not disrupted
ongoing construction activities and maintenance activities have also
continued. Secondly, the sustainability of road maintenance activities would
depend on the ability of the Road Fund to mobilize greater resources and to
manage well. Legal and institutional reforms supported by the supplemental
credit, are expected to improve the functioning of the Road Fund. This
includes measures to improve revenue collection so that user fees, mainly the
portion of fuel levy for the Road Fund, are deposited directly into a
separate account.
Project Implementation and Disbursement Status.
37.     The Rwanda portfolio included 12 operations during FY97.    There were
three operations in the social sectors (Education, Health and Population,
Food Security and Social Action), four in infrastructure (Transport,
Communication, Water Supply and Energy), three focusing on Economic
management (Sectoral and Pre-investment project, ERC, ERRC), one private
sector development project and one agriculture project (closed in October
1996). Overall performance of the Rwanda portfolio improved during FY97.
Disbursements on investment projects more than doubled from US$13.97 million
in FY96 to 30.52 in FY97 while the fast disbursing Emergency Recovery Credit
(ERC) disbursed almost all the remaining balance of US$4.26 million.
38.     The Rwanda portfolio has an average age of 5.8 years and except for the
ERRC and the Private Sector Development project, the rest of the project are
closing in December 1998. Following the QAG review of the 1906 ARRP the Bank
organized a CPPR mission to address all major portfolio and policy issues
with the Government in November 1996. The CPPR mission agreed with the
Government on an action plan which served as a framework for follow up
activities throughout the year on both generic and project specific issues.
The action plan called for a major effort to improve the overall portfolio
performance and strengthening of project capacity. A mini CPPR was carried
out in June 1997 to assess the progress made since the November 1996. The
Rwanda portfolio management in FY97 was characterized by (i) a sustained
effort to take action that would help enhance performance such as systematic
- 12 -



implementation of actions plans and monitoring performance indicators; (ii)
an increased partnership between the Bank and the Government through CPPR
follow-up monthly meetings; (iii) an increased supervision effort (the
average supervision effort per project was 20.1 staff weeks, slightly up from
19.4 staff weeks in FY96) combined with a more visible role of the Resident
Mission under the Resident Representative's leadership in his capacity as co-
pilot along with the Country Operations Director; (iv) use of staff in the
Burundi Resident Mission to address procurement, accounting and SOE issues;
and (v) a stepped up policy dialogue on sectoral and macro levels including
community participation which led to the identification of new lending
operations, medium term development policies and public expenditure
management which laid the ground for the recently approved ERRC. Overall,
these efforts have resulted in significant improvement in disbursement on
investment operations compared to the FY96; improvement in procurement,
accounting and auditing; and to some extent, in management and ownership.
39.     There was a significant improvement in the financial management of
projects over the FY97. All the projects, except Communications II, have put
in place computerized accounting and financial systems. There are no
outstanding audit report. With a new financial management specialist on board
in the Resident Mission to oversee both in Rwanda and Burundi, portfolio
financial management, there should be further improvements in this area
during FY98 and subsequent improved quality of audit reports.
40.     An overall improvement in project ratings was achieved during the FY97.
There were four problem projects for DO ratings representing 33.3 percent of
the portfolio compared to 50 percent in FY96. Due to limited capacity and
financing gaps for some projects, the percentage of problem projects for IP
remained unchanged in FY97 compared to the previous year.
41.     The lack of adequate capacity remains a constraint that hampers the
implementation of the portfolio. Nevertheless, improvements were made in FY97
through efforts to strengthen project management and to increase Government
commitment and ownership of projects, particularly after the November 1996
CPPR. Specific efforts to train project managers, and to develop disbursement
and procurement skills were undertaken by the Resident Mission.
42.     The management of the Rwanda portfolio will continue to be carried out
in a risky environment characterized by political and security uncertainties,
fiscal and debts problems, capacity and absorption weaknesses. However, the
Bank remains ready to take necessary action that would help mitigate major
risks, the positive partnership with the Government which was strengthened
over the FY97 constitutes a conducive factor to enhanced portfolio
performance.
Contact Point:
Aubert Zohore,
Task Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 4311
Fax: 202 473 8038
- 13 -



E-mail: Azohore@worldbank.org
For information on other project related documents contact:
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 458 5454
Fax: 202 522 1500
Web: http://www.worlbank.org/infoshop
- 14 -



