Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8386-RW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
APRIL 30, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a resicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pertformane Of
their officul duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Woddn u aon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rwandese Franc (FRW)
US$1.00        = FRW 80
FRW 100          US$1.25
The U.S. dollar/Rwandese franc rate is subject to change, since the FRW is
pegged to the SDR. Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 = FRW 80, the average exchange rate at the time of appraisal in
July 1989.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer               =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)       0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                 2.47 acres
I metric ton (m ton)           2,204 pounds (lbs)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BUNEP          =    National Bureau for the Study of Projects
DE             =    Maintenance Department
DPC            -    General Directorate of Roads and Bridges
DSM            =    Dar-es-Salaam (Tanzania)
EDF            =    European Development Fund
EEC            -    European Economic Community
FRG            -    Federal Republic of Germany
HDM-III        =    Highway Design Model
LNTP           =    Laboratoire National des Travaux Publics
MAGERWA        =    Magasins Generaux du Rwanda
MININTER       =    Ministry of Interior
MINITRANSCO          Ministry of Transport and Communications
MINITRAPE      =    Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Water
NCTA                Northern Corridor Transit Agreement
NGO            =    Non-Governmental Organization
ONATRACOM            Office National des Transports en Commun
OPEC           =    Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PPRC           =    Communal Roads Pilot Program
SDC            =    Swiss Development Cooperation
SME            =    Small and Medium Enterprises
STIR           -    Societe des Transports Internationaux du Rwanda
TRC            =    Tanzania Railways Corporation
UNDP           -    United Nations Development Program
VOC            =    Vehicle operating cost
vpd                  Vehicles per day
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ............................                   iii
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .............................                   1
A.   Geographic and Economic Setting              ..............     1
B.  The Transport System .........................                   1
External Transport ...........................                  1
The Road Network .......          ......................        3
Road Use .........          ............................        4
Lake Transport ....... ............ .                           6
Civil Aviation ...............................                 6
C.  Planning, Finance and Management ....             .........      7
Institutional Framework and Administration  ...                 7
Financing of Road Maintenance ...............          .       11
II.  SECTOR ISSUES AND POLICY INITIATIVES ............            .       12
A.   Transport Sector Issues              ......................    12
B.  Policy Initiatives.  ....          .....................       13
Statement of Sectoral Development Policy   .....               14
Transport Planning (UNDP) .....            ...............     15
Great Lakes Corridor Study  ..................         .       15
Road Fund ..........         ..........................        15
Reclassification of Road Network ....            .........     17
C.  Previous Bank Group Assistance in the sector .                 17
III. THE PROJECT         ......................................           19
A.  Objectives ........         ...........................         19
B.  Description         ..................................         20
C.  Project Costs    ................................              23
D.  Financing Plan ............. ....... .. ...... .               25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Rwanda in
July 1989. Mission members included B. Bostrom (Sr. Economist), 0. Grimes
(Principal Economist), M. Benouahi (Financial Analyst), E. Bidaux (Research
Assistant) and A. Nickesen (Consultant). Messrs. A. Labeau (Highway
Engineer) and T. Thiam (Financial Analyst) visited Rwanda in October 1989.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ..  ................    26
A.  Implementation Arrangements .#* ... ** ..........  26
B. Procurement ....................       ......    29
C.  Staffing and Training .    .........................    30
D.  Disbursements ............... ....... . . ......    31
E. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
Requirements   ..................................  34
F.  Environmental Aspects ... ......................    35
G.  Poverty Alleviation Aspects ..   ................    35
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..............................   36
A. Benefits and Impacts ...............    36
B. Area of Influence and Beneficiaries .# ........  37
C.  Economic Analysis .   ...........................  37
D.  Risks   .................. ... ...................    38
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .. ..........    40
Annexes
1.1 Traffic distribution for East Africa 1987
1.2 Statistical Motor Vehicle Fleet 1984-1988
1.3 Average daily traffic
1.4 Fuel imports 1982-1987
1.5 Traffic Accidents 1980-1986
1.6 Kigali Airport Traffic
1.7 Summary of investments in the transport sector
1.8 Highway Expenditures 1980-1988
2.1 Letter of Sectoral Development Policy
2.2 Summary of Action Plan
3.1 Financing Plan 1991-1994
4.1 Terms of Reference for Construction Supervision
4.2 Professional Training Program
4.3 Progress Reporting Requirements
4.4 Environmental Assessment
5.1 Vehicle Operating Costs
5.2 Details of Highway Rehabilitation - Gitarama-Kibuye road
5.3 Economic Analysis of Maintenance Program
5.4 Economic Evaluation of Communal Roads
5.5 Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests
6.1 Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Charts
1.  Organization of MINITRAPE
2.  Project Implementation Schedule
Maps
IBRD 21189
IBRD 21834R



iii
RWANDA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      Republic of Rwanda
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Water (MINITRAPE)
Ministry of Transport and Communications (MINITRANSCO)
Amount:         SDR 31.1 million (US$40.0 million)
Terms:         Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Proiect Oblectives:
The objectives of the project are to (i) protect capital investment
in main roads through improved maintenance; (ii) strengthen
institutions in the sector through better planning and resource
mobilization; (iii) promote communal development and better economic
integration through improved communal roads; (iv) improve access to
the Kibuye prefecture; (v) support lake transport; and (vi) improve
vehicle safety. This program also has important policy dimensions
such as streamlining the regulatory environment, financing of
sectoral expenditures, and improving institutional arrangements and
responsibilities in the sector.
Prolect Description:
The project will cover roads and transport for which the
responsibility is split between two ministries (MINITRAPE and
MINITRANSCO). A comprehensive program of road reconstruction and
maintenance, institutional strengthening and transport sector
improvements for 1991-1994 was designed to meet the highest priority
for the country with support confirmed by donors during appraisal in
July 1989. The main project components are as follows:
(a) participation with other cofinancing agencies in the upgrading of
the Gitarama-Kibuye road;
(b) rehabilitation and maintenance of a pilot project of 600 km of
communal roads;
(c) support to a four-year road maintenance program;
(d) institution building, technical assistance and professional
training both for the above ministries and road contractors; and
(e) a transport sector program including support to lake transport
and vehicle inspection.



iv
Benefits:
Improvement of road maintenance, and selective road upgrading, would
reduce vehicle operating costs and reduce the need for costly
rehabilitation especially for the paved network in the future.
Better access to the Kibuye area will support production of coffee
and tea, and tourism to the Kivu lake. The Kibuye road, in
particular, has also been subject to an environmental assessment, to
provide guidance in the bidding documents for improved safeguards
concerning environmental impact, and other aspects such as measures
for road safety, plan for any relocation and of tourism development
of Kibuye. Improvement of rural roads would also support export
crops and more rational food production. Less costly international
access and improved transport policy would reduce costs of imports
and enhance the competitiveness of exports. The project would also
support development of local contractors for road works and further
privatization of transport services.
Risks:
The proposed road components iinder the project wouxld be subject to
certain potential risks. Cost overruns on the Gitarama-Kibuye road,
delays in implementation of the road maintenance program and cost
increases andlor delays with the communal roads pilot program are the
main elements of risk. The likely cost overruns for the Kibuye road
has been minimized through detailed design, based on recent cost data
from ongoing construction works in similar terrain. The main
response to the institutional risks of the communal roads project is
through intensive project monitoring, and technical assistance,
spreading the participation geographically and using different means
of implementation (i.e. works partly by administration, partly by
contractors).
Project Cost:
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$148.85 million
equivalent with foreign costs of about US$96.61 million and local
costs of US$52.24 million. The detailed cost and financing plan are
in the following table.
Rate of return: 45% over 86% of total project costs.



v
RWANDA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN
Projet Cost Estimates 1/
Local    Foreign     Total    Foreign as
- --   (USS million)------  % of total
Transport Component                  1.69       1.94      3.63       532
Road Component
Gitarama-Kibuye                  11.62       35.41     47.03       75%
Periodic maintenance              6.85       14.55     21.40       68%
Routine maintenance               7.67        4.96     12.63       39%
MINITRAPE services                3.22        5.86      9.08       65%
Communal roads                    7.05        5.02     12.07       42%
Institutional development         0.37        3.41      3.78       90%
Base Cost                        38.47       71.15    109.62       65%
Physical Contingencies              3.85        7.11     10.96
Price Contingencies                 9.92       18.35     28.27
Total Project Costs              52.24       96.61    148.85       65%
Financing Plan:                    Local    Foreign      Total    % of total
-------(USS million)------
Government                         24.90       29.16     54.06       36%
EEC/EDF                             8.10       24.50     32.60       22%
Swiss Cooperation                   2.34        7.03      9.37        6%
OPEC                                1.00        3.00      4.00        3%
FRG/KFW                             1.52        3.23      4.75        3%
IDA - Transport Sector Project    12.70        27.30     40.00       27%
Sixth Highway                 1.68        2.39      4.07        3%
Total                          52.24       96.61    148.85      100%
1/ Costs are net of taxes which are estimated at FRW 608 million
(US$ 7.6 million equivalent)
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
91    92    93    94    95    96    97
------------(US$ million)-----------
Annual                       1.8   5.4   7.4   7.8   8.8   6.8   2.0
Cumulative                   1.8   7.2  14.6  22.4  31.2  38.0  40.0



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geoaralhic and Economic Setting
1.01       Rwanda is a small landlocked country situated south of the
equator in Eastern Africa between Burundi, Tanzania, Uganda and Zaire, about
1,500 km from the Indian Ocean. The country covers an area of 25,900 square
kilometers and its terrain is dominated by a mountain range and Lake Kivu in
the west, hilly terrain and valleys in the center and a low-lying plain in
the east. The generally rugged terrain, the deuse settlements in large
parts of Rwanda as well as its landlocked position have contributed to shape
its transport infrastructure.
1.02       With a population of approximately 6.7 million (1988) growing at
a high rate of over 3.0% p.a., Rwanda is the most densely populated country
in Africa with 260 inhabitants per sq.km (400 inhabitants per sq. km of
arable lands). Over 90% of the population live in rural areas as small
farmers who depend mainly on subsistence agriculture and on two main cash
crops, coffee and tea, which provide the major source of foreign exchange
for the country.   Gross National Product (GNP) per capita, estimated at US$
310 in 1988, is among the world's lowest. Agriculture is the main economic
activity and provides some 80% of export value.
1.03       The prevailing economic and financial conditions in Rwanda have
been taken into consideration in designing the proposed transport sector
program and its financing. The program is seen as an integral part of the
economic development process and therefore, calls for appropriate policy
actions within the trannport sector. A Letter of Sector Development Policy,
with an Action Plan, has been prepared by the Government (see para 2.10).
Policy actions will aim at more emphasis on maintenance of infrastructure,
more reliance on the private sector for road maintenance, better planning
and improvement of cost recovery mechanisms as well as more liberalization
of transport operations, in order to make exports more competitive and to
reduce the costs of imports and internal transport.
B. The Transport System
1.04       The transport system in Rwanda consists of about 12,500 km of
roads and tracks (of which about 6,000 km are classified and about 3,400 km
under responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works, Energy and
Water, MINITRAPE). There is an international airport capable of use by
long-range aircraft but no railways or navigable rivers. Lake Kivu is
mostly used for transport along the lake between Cyangugu, Kibuye and
Gisenyi, and very limited traffic to Zaire. As a landlocked country far
from ocean ports, Rwanda depends on external transport links, at high cost,
for its foreign trade.
External transport
1.05       Rwanda's foreign trade is mostly with developed countries and to
a lesser extent with its neighbors. It has grown markedly in volume in
recent years. However, the external trade volumes are still relatively low:
during the 1985-1988 period, imports averaged about 255,000 tons p.a. while
exports totalled about 50,000 tons p.a. (of which coffee represented 30,000
tons). The annual external trade growth rate is expected to be in the 5-6%
range in the coming years and the trade flow will remain imbalanced.



- 2 -
1.06       As a landlocked country, Rwanda is dependent on transit through
neighboring countries. Two main corridors including various routes (see Map
IBRD 21189) are now used for external trades  (i)  the Northern Corridor
(all-road route) to Nairobi and Mombasa via Kampala; (ii) the traditional
Central Corridor (road/lake/rail route) to Dar-es-Salaam (DSM) via Bujumbura
and Kigoma ; and (iii) a recent Central Corridor (all-road route) through
Tanzania, in dry season. The Northern Corridor route now accounts for about
65% (petroleum products and general imports) of total international traffic,
the Central Corridor routes have increased to 33% since 198i' and direct air
transport represents 2% (Annex 1.1). Under these circumstances transport
costs are obviously high even in the best conditions. Costs are further
increased by other factors including poor transport infrastructure,
cumbersome transit procedures, the low efficiency of transport operators and
highly imbalanced import (80% of the traffic volume) and export (20%) flows.
Overall transport costs are estimated to add about 30-40% to the cost of
imports and exports.
1.07       In the late 1970s, the Northern Corridor suffered disruptions in
transit from turmoil in Uganda. Since then, the situation has improved with
the exception of disruptions due to political troubles in Uganda in 1986.
In most countries through which the northern corridor passes (Rwanda, Uganda
and Kenya), investments were made to improve maintenance and extend
infrastructure. Direct transport costs are up to estimated to have
gradually decreased in the northern corridor from US$ 340/ton in 1979, at
the peak of war conditions in Uganda, to US$ 200/ton in 1988. Indirect
costs have also fallen: transit times fell over the last decade from 35-45
days to 20-30 days in the northern corridor and from several months to 40-
60 days in the central corridor. The central corridor (both the all road
and road-rail alternatives) where unit transport costs are about US$ 100/ton
lower than via Mombasa would now be the cheapest alternative for Rwanda.
Further improvements are necessary on the Tanzania Railway Corporation
(TRC), while Dar-Es-Salaam port has markedly improved these last years and
is now being preferred to Mombasa. To improve transport conditions further
on the Central Corridor route, the Government has agreed with Tanzania to
establish an intermodal terminal (rail/route) on the TRC line at Isaka. This
would be a third alternative of the Central Corridor to enable the year-
around use of the shorter access through Tanzania. Further reductions in
costs are both possible and necessary but will require the full and
effective implementation of multi-country agreements to facilitate transit
procedures, such as the Northern Corridor Transit Agreement (NCTA) signed in
1985 but not yet fully effective (see below).
1.08       Transport security and reliability is a matter for concern.  One
of the main Government objectives is to increase revenues from exports, and
of coffee in particular, through better quality and higher volumes.
Therefore, reliability of transport has become a very important objective
both within Rwanda and on export routes. Reliability of international
transport has traditionally been an acute issue also for imports, with a
strong-felt need for alternative access to provide the Government with a
rapid solution whenever disruptions occur. In addition to shifts between
the two main corridors, alternative transport options also include air
transport.



-3-
1.09       Rwanda Is in a relatively favored position in that it has
several practical access routes to both Dar-es-Salaam and Mombasa. Given
the availability of charter air-freight and over-capacity of the region's
trucking fleet, it is clear that more transit routes, without improved
management of infrastructure and Letained flexibility by the shippers, will
not solve the transit problem. For Rwanda, this means that over-investment,
at least within the country, is probably more of a danger than inadequate
infrastructure. Any additional road links other than the existing paved
roads, including the more direct route via paved road to the new rail/road
terminal at Isaka in Tanzania, would not be required for external transport.
The Road Network
1.10       Rwanda has a road network totaling about 12,500 km of which some
970 km national roads are paved or being improved to paved standard.
nother 1,740 km national and provincial roads are mostly unengineered
gravel roads (Table 1.1). In addition there is a network of communal earth
roads totaling some 9,800 km. Thus, the coverage of the natwork is largely
adequate. However, many of the earth roads are characterized by frequent
and narrow _urves, steep grades and uneven surfaces. In the mountainous
terrain, .eavy rainfall and poor 80il conditions cause high maintenance
costs of gravel and earth roads. Rwanda has concentrated its efforts on
improving to paved standards the main international road links between
Kigali and neighboring Uganda, Burundi and Tanzania and between its regional
centers. The Government has also started to pay more attention to
strengthening its road maintenance operations. This effort has resulted in
a paved road network in good condition, but a network of earth roads at best
in fair condition, largely passable year round, but with rutting and
potholes common aftei each rainy season.
Table 1.1
Development of the Road Network
(in km)
1977      1984       1988
A. Classified Roads
National Roads                            2,205      2,270
Provincial Roads                          1.855     3,575
Total                2,400     4,060      5,845
B. Non-Classified Roads
Local Roads                    3,900      8,010     6.640
GRAND TOTAL          6,300    12,070    12,486
C. Classified Road Network
by Surface Type
Bitumen                          350        627        971 (*)
Gravel                          1,050     1,569      1,740
Earth                           1.000     1.864     3,134
Total                2,400     4,060      5,845
(*) about 70 km of streets included
Source: Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Water



- 4 -
1.11       The general condition of the network is not satisfactory and
varies from poor to good.  However, the paved road n.twork is relatively new
and most of it remains in fair to good condition. Construction and
maintenance costs are high due to the country's difficult topography, poor
geotechnical conditions and heavy rains. Therefore, road maintenance
operations have to be sustained to prevent past road investments from costly
repairs and reconstruction in the future and to prevent vehicle operating
costs (VOC) from rising excessively. Maintenance efforts, which started
under the Second Highway Project, are emphasized under the ongoing Sixth
Highway Project and are to continue under the proposed program.
Road Use
-- Vehicle Fleet and Traffic
1.12       The motor vehicle fleet reached 19,427 vehicles in 1988 (not
counting motorcycles), of which about 4,000 were owned by the Government
(Table 1.2 and Annex 1.2), and about 6,000 motorcycles. There were 3
vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants which is on the low side for East African
countries. The annual growth rate has been decreasing sJnce 1983 and now
reaches about 3.0%, after growing at a high average annual rate of 14% over
the 1976-1983 period. In 1988, the fleet situated mainly in Kigali, was
dominated by passenger cars, making up 33%, with pick-ups and minibuses at
30%, trucks 14%, and tractors and special vehicles making up the difference.
The major increases in the period were recorded for mini-buses, pick-up
trucks and truck/trailer combination.
Table 1.2
Motor Vehicle Fleet
1976      1984       1988
Passenger cars                        2,713     6,448      7,986
Pick-up trucks                        2,432     5,786      8,268
Minibuses
Trucks                                  858     1,438      1,938
Truck/trailer combinations                        471        837
Other                                   299       225        265
Bus                                               111        133
Total                                 6,302    14,476    19,427
1.13       Systematic traffic counts started on the national network in
1982. They now cover about 3,000 km of the road network and are carried out
by the General Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DPC) of MINITRAPE. The
traffic volumes rarely exceed 500 vehicles per day (vpd). The highest
traf::ic volumes are found on paved roads. A significant part of the network
(about 500 km) has however traffic volumes of more than 200 vpd (see Annex
1.3).



-- Fuel Consumption and Price
1.14       Over the period 1982-1987 the consumption of fuel  increased at
an average rate of 6% p.a.. Fuel is imported by several companies, mainly
from the refinery in Mombasa. Fuel storage capacity exceeds 20 million
liters and is adequate (representing approximately a five-month consumption
reserve) (see Annex 1.4).
1.15       The retail fuel prices are high, partly due to the high
transport cost caused by the country's distance from the ocean ports. The
retail price is US$0.84 per liter or US$3.20 per US gallon for gasolir-e
(super) and US$0.80 per liter or US$3.04 per US gallon for diesel fuel.
There are no Government price subsidies and the internal taxation on fuel is
rather high. Import duties and taxes on fuel are important sources of
Government revenue from road users representing about 103% of CIF price for
gasoline and 101% for diesel fuel coming from Nairobi.
-- Road Transport Industry
1.16       Road transport in Rwanda is dominated by private operators.  At
the same time as a result of improved road conditions there has been a
substantial increase in the vehicle fleet, albeit with a slow down since
1983. About 600 1/ trucks and 133 buses are owned by parastatals and the
remainder is privately owned. The vehicle for passenger transport is
typically a minibus, which has proven to be faster and more mobile and
economical for private operators than large vehicles. More than 85% of the
1,500 buses used for public transport in 1988 were minibuses. The use of
small vehicles largely the result of a country with short distances, also
prevails for freight transport within Rwanda. Entry into the transport
industry is free and domestic routes not regulated except for tariffs for
urban passenger transport. The government owns two parastatals for road
transport, STIR, mainly for external freight transport and ONATRACOM for
internal passenger transport. A decision to privatize STIR has been taken
by the Government. The Public Enterprise Reform project recently approved
by IDA will include technical assistance to facilitate this process and
establish a timetable for actions.
1.17       Concerning the parastatals, tariffs for ONATRACOM have been kept
unchanged for too long a time and as a result the revenue collected does not
cover operating cost. The government therefore has to subsidize the
operations. For urban transport in Kigali, the ONATRACOM tariffs also apply
to private operators. A performance contract between ONATRACOM and the
Government has been under discussion in 1987-88 but would need to provide
more consistency with the general objective of reducing subsidies to the
PEs. A tariff increase, to compensate several years of inflationary cost
changes, particularly for urban tariffs, is essential for ONATRACOM.
1/   out of 2,500 including truck/trailer combinations.



-- Vehicle Regulations
1.18       There are no major problems with vehicle weight and dimensions
in regard to the road network, since trucks as indicated above tend to be
small in size on most roads. Where the problem arises is for the long-
distance traffic with heavy vehicles, where rules in one country affect the
situation in others and the scope of practical enforcement differs between
domestic and foreign vehicles. To control the weight, there are scales in
Kigali and the two most important border crossings (though not yet in
operation) and the customs clearance is done in Kigali. As part of the
NCTA, new increased axle weight limits have been agreed between Burundi and
Rwanda, Uganda and Kenya. Traffic safety, partly as a result of higher
speeds and traffic due to improved roads, is a serious problem, which in
part will be addressed through the project (see para. 3.17). An indication
of the development of accidents is included in Annex 1.5.
Lake Transport
1.19       Lake Kivu allows commercial navigation between the towns of
Gisenyi, Kibuye and Cyangugu. The main transport flows consist of beer from
Gisenyi to Cyangugu and Kibuye with coffee being carried seasonally on the
return journey. The yearly volume of traffic is estimated at some 33,000
tons for goods and 25,000 passengers. The lake fleet, owned by
traders/operators, consists of some 60 units (including passenger transport
craft and barges) with a carrying capacity of 10-20 tons for the self
propelled craft and 50-120 tons for barges. The fleet is old and not well
maintained. The berthing facilities are generally rudimentary and in poor
condition but could be renovated at relatively low costs. Since lake
transport is the most economical method of transportation between
communities along the lake, there will be scope for its expansion as and
when trade in agricultural and consumer goods increases, or if the methane
gas resources under the lake are developed. One of the components under the
project would improve vessel maintenance by financing a modest shipyard (see
para. 3.16). Some of the jetties for loading lake vessels were improved
under an Agriculture Project (1126-RWA).
Civil Aviation
1.20       In view of the small size of the country, air transport
primarily serves external transport needs. The international airport near
Kigali can handle wide-body aircraft and a new terminal building was
completed in 1984. Five smaller airfields exist but the only one of some
importance is Cyangugu in the south west. Kigali airport is equipped for
24-hour operations and provides service to Europe and the capitals of
neighboring African countries. The airport is served by European and
African airline companies. In the 1980s, passenger traffic has been slowly
increasing, reaching about 73,000 passengers in 1988. Freight traffic has
however been severely decreasing since 1982 and reached only close to 15,000
tons in 1988 (from more than 30,000 tons in 1982) (Annex 1.6). Domestic
passengers have decreased from a peak of about 29,000 in 1982/83 to about
8,000 in 1988. Under the Action Plan (para. 6.01 and Annex 2.2) a review of
responsibility for freight handling at Kigali airport would be done and a
restructuring of Air Rwanda undertaken. Both airports and Air Rwanda are
under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport and Communications
(MINITRANSCO).



-7 -
1.21       Domestic scheduled flights are assured by Air Rwanda which
operates three small aircraft while chartered flights are available from a
few private companies. In 1979, to cope with the severe international
transportation bottlenecks, Air Rwanda acquired a Boeing 707 cargo aircraft
which initially flew to Europe and to Mombasa. Utilization of the aircraft
has decreased following the improvement in the performance of the surface
routes. Operation of the aircraft is not profitable despite flights to
Europe. Its main justification would consist in that it provides
diversification and some security in external transport. However, it is
costly to operate, not adapted to noise-restrictions in Europe after 1990
and its market potential within Africa is very limited provided the
restrictions of goods movement to Mombasa be lifted which is part of the
project. MINITRANSCO, with bilateral assistance, is now reviewing the
future direction of Air Rwanda after the UNDP-transport planning project
(with the Bank as executing agency) has completed a study of air transport
and a study of operational improvement is underway. In the Action plan
(Annex 2.2), a program of financial restructuring of Air Rwanda is included.
C. Planninrt, Finance and Management
1.22       Infrastructure development, particularly in support of road
transport, is very closely linked with the production of food and services
and marketing of exports. Past expenditures in the sector have therefore
been dominated by road infrastructure. The challenge for the future is to
keep a relatively developed main network well maintained, improve the
condition of many rural roads, and avoid unnecessary investment in extending
the main network. With high rainfall and difficult topography, substantial
maintenance costs are incurred for unpaved roads. All principal
international access routes and links between Kigali and the main centers of
each prefecture should be improved to and maintained in paved condition.
Future programs ought to ensure that maintenance expenditures do not decline
below 25-35% of total road expenditures, to ensure that important parts of
the system are not allowed to deteriorate.
1.23       The proposed program (see Annex 1.7) reflects these priorities.
Of a total for the road subsector of FRW 19.9 billion for 1989-92, FRW 7.3
billion is for road maintenance, of which about FRW 4.4 billion for the four
years supported by the Road Fund and regular budget (para 1.34). About FRW
14.1 billion of the road program is externally financed. The program for
the remainder of the transport sector is more modest, FRW 3.3 billion for
1989-92. The focus of the program is on transport terminals, particularly
the Isaka terminal (FRW 605 million), new buses for ONATRACOM (FRW 476
million), and a shipyard on Lake Kivu (FRW 350 million). These are all
externally financed.
Institutional Framework and Administration
1.24       Two ministries are directly involved in transport: (a) the
Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Water (MINITRAPE) for road construction
and maintenance; and (b) MINITRANSCO for the development of other modes and
for utilization of the transport infrastructure in general. MINITRANSCO is
also the ministry responsible for parastatal enterprises in the sector such
as Onatracom for public passenger transport within Rwanda and Air Rwanda.
In addition, the Ministries of Planning, of Finance, and of Interior



- 8 -
(MININTER) are indirectly concerned with transport. The first of these is
determining sector priorities, the second is influencing the sector through
taxation of inputs used in transport, such as fuel, and the third is
responsible for the communes and therefore the maintenance of the large
network of rural, unclassified roads. Finally the Central Bank has an
influence on the functioning of the sector through its role in the
allocation of foreign exchange. The Government has only recently begun to
perceive the multifaceted character of the sector and the urgent need for
improved coordination between the various parts of Government involved in
transport.
1.25       MINITRAPE, through the Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DPC),
has full responsibility for the design, construction and maintenance of a
network of national roads. DPC is divided into the Maintenance Department
(DE) which is in charge of new construction by contractor and of road/bridge
maintenance and construction by force account and of the mechanical workshop
(Chart 1) and a Planning and Programming Department. The organizational
structure, which was updated in early 1984 and again in 1989, is adequate to
administer the road subsector. The staff numbered some 6,100 in June 1989.
Of these 92 were permanent, 1,155 under contract and the remaining were
hired ad hoc and paid on a daily basis. Staffing, however, in particular of
higher level positions still poses problems. A manpower development plan,
particularly for key employees is clearly needed, but would have to be
supported by incentives to retain trained staff. Training programs over an
extended period, interspersed with long periods of work, may be one
solution. To make up for the current shortage of qualified Rwandese higher
level staff, DPC has the assistance of several expatriates financed by
bilateral and multilateral sources. They are employed as advisors, training
instructors or as part of project teams. Because of the lack of local
counterparts, coordination of their activities has proven difficult. For
middle and lower level staff, the shortages are less severe and certain
functional categories are definitely overstaffed. Moreover, qualifications
are uneven as the education system does not produce enough skilled workers
and technicians and Government often hires employees without any vocational
training.
1.26       MINITRAPE is responsible through DPC for planning, construction,
and maintenance of the classified road network. Planning capacity remains
relatively weak as substantiated in the past by the inadequate balance
between new construction and maintenance of existing infrastructure,
resulting in the increasing need for rehabilitation of existing paved roads.
The Planning Department will be reinforced under the project to strengthen
DPC planning capacity.
-- Road Maintenance and Equipment ManaRement
1.27       DPC is responsible for planning and executing the maintenance on
the network of 2,270 km of national roads and about 1,000 km of provincial
roads, while the communes are responsible for the maintenance of some 9,000
km of largely unclassified roads and tracks. Since the latter serve an
important function in the transport of agricultural produce, and since the
communes lack the funds, equipment and skilled staff to maintain them, DPC
occasionally undertakes emergency repair works on these roads. Road
maintenance has improved over the past years. This is due to the
strengthening of road maintenance operations, increased budgetary



- 9 -
allocations and the assistance provided by IDA and other foreign donors,
principally the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG).  An adequate
administrative structure has been set up and procedures for maintaining the
country's major network and improving the skills of local staff are in
place.  Periodic road maintenance is carried out by six mechanized brigades
for the main classified gravel roads; routine maintenance operations are
performed by 200 labor-intensive road gangs ("cantonniers"), composed of a
i'oreman and 12 roadmen with responsibility for about 15 km of roads.  In
idition, volontary labor by Umuganda is supporting certain activities such
as erosion control also on the classified roads. This organization has
succeeded in adequately maintaining the road network and keeping it passable
year round. Among Sub-saharan African states surveyed by IDA, Rwanda ranks
in the most advanced group for road maintenance. However, the mechanized
road maintenance brigades do not yet perform to satisfaction, partly due to
limited experienced personnel, pending results of continuing training under
the Sixth Highway project and other external assistance (UNDP and FRG), and
partly due to poor planning and monitoring.
1.28       Equipment maintenance and repair is also the responsibility of
DPC. It operates a central mechanical workshop and a spare parts store in
Kigali and two regional workshops in Ruhengeri, and Kibuye. Major repairs
are carried out at the central workshop and routine maintenance in the
regional workshops. These operations are supported by technical assistance
provided under IDA and German projects and staffed by local mechanics and
helpers. As a result it is now operating satisfactorily. However, it will
continue to depend on the assistance of the expatriate mechanics to carry
out its operations satisfactorily for several years given the shortage of
experienced local mechanics. The proposed project would provide the
necessary technical assistance, equipment, materials and supplies for
continued improvement of operations and will put emphasis on the training of
necessary personnel (para. 4.22).
1.29       Overall, road maintenance is carried out reasonably well, but
improvements are needed in the following areas:
(i)  availability of equipment remains low, mainly due to lack of
skilled mechanics and delays in supply of spare parts, and
should be increased;
(ii) procurement of materials should be better planned and monitored;
(iii) costs should be closely monitored and unit costs computed; for
instance, fuel consumption although recently reduced remains too
high and needs to be better controlled; and
(iv) periodic maintenance and in particular grading on gravel roads
should receive a greater priority than in the past and should be
carried out systematically.



- 10 -
These operational issues will be addressed under the project through (a)
recourse to gradual contracting out of road activities; (b) assistance to
DPC in planning, cost accounting and setting up appropriate management
information indicators; and (c) increased budgets for road maintenance,
through the Road Fund.
1.30       DPC is responsible for engineering and supervising construction
works. Due to limited number of experienced staff, it is supported by
technical assistance staff from FRG. DPC can handle only minor engineering
design and work supervision tasks. Engineering studies and supervision of
major projects are entrusted to foreign consultants and occasionally the
National Study Bureau (BUNEP) which is gaining expertise in this field. DPC
also operates the Government Soils Laboratory "Laboratoire National des
Travaux Publics" (LNTP). LNTP is carrying out most soil and material tests
for design and construction supervision of civil works but has now to
compete with the University Laboratory for works for the private sector.
French and Belgian aid are expected to continue to provide technical
assistance and training to LNTP in the next few years. As part of the
ongoing program, LNTP's capacity will be expanded to cover certain study and
supervision tasks of road maintenance operations and research in the
utilization of local materials for road construction and maintenance.
Construction projects are executed by contractors, following suitable pre-
qualification and tendering procedures. Contracts are generally let on a
unit-price basis following international competitive bidding. Rwanda has
very few domestic road construction firms due to lack of skilled and
experienced personnel, lack of financial resources and a small market for
construction works. A few domestic firms work only in small building
construction projects and as minor subcontractors to foreign firms for major
building construction. The construction industry is dominated by foreign
contractors using mostly equipment-based methods and domestic contractors
carry out some building construction and minor road works, sometimes through
joint venture and subcontracting arrangements. The Government has now
decided to open road works to private contractors, besides the local
contractors under sub-contract to major international firms. Labor-based
methods have been used at times for construction of low traffic volume roads
with mixed results, most recently, whereas they are presently encouraged
under a UNDP project carried out with ILO support west of Kigali.  It is
expected that recourse to small and medium local construction firms would
stimulate the increased utilization of labor in the construction industry.
1.31       So far, virtually all road maintenance works are carried out by
force account by DPC, except resurfacing of paved roads. Regraveling and
rehabilitation with spot improvements of earth roads are carried out by the
six production brigades, but productivity can still be improved with lower
unit costs also feasible. The equipment for the brigades was provided under
financing by IDA, the OPEC Fund, United Nations Capital Development Fund and
FRG. Patching and resealing works on paved roads are carried out by two
brigades. Routine maintenance, including cleaning ditches, culverts and
shoulders is carried out unevenly, under labor-based cantonnage explained
above. Bridge maintenance is carried out by a bridge brigade.



- 11 -
-- Communal Roads
1.32       Institutional responsibility for roads in Rwanda has not always
corresponded to actual practice. MINITRAPE is responsible for the
construction and maintenance of all roads classified as national (presently
some 2,270 km). Responsibility for more than 9,000 km of other unclassified
roads is with the local governments (communes). In practice, however, the
communes do not generally have the financial and technical resources to
undertake regular road maintenance. Especially since the broad category
"communal roads" encompasses roads of quite different economic importance,
MINITRAPE has tried to lend a hand on a few of the more important of these
roads. Overall results have been mixed, however, partly because the
capacity of tIINITRAPE on classified roads is already stretched and because
the expectation of a MINITRAPE brigade arriving can lessen the communes'
incentive to carry out maintenance on their own. The Government has
recognized thle need to re-categorize the road network to better reflect the
distinction among roads of different types (para. 2.19), increasing the
share of roads maintained by MINITRAPE.
Financing of Road Maintenance
1.33       Routine and periodic maintenance are financed so far through the
recurrent budget and the donor community. New road and bridge construction
and some periodic maintenance of paved roads is financed under the
investment budget. The budget works as follows: budget proposals are
prepared by the DPC during the third quarter and submitted to the Ministries
of Finance and Planning during the fourth quarter. They decide jointly on
the budget to be presented to the Cabinet for final approval. Budgets are
normally approved by the Cabinet and Parliament in January.
1.34       Total annual expenditures for highway maintenance have averaged
some FRW 1,400 million in recent years (Annex 1.8). Of these, about 40% was
funded through the Government's recurrent budget and the remainder by
multilateral and bilateral donors. The recurrent budget allocation to road
maintenance has been stable at FRW 570 million in the 1986-1988 period.
Total annual expenditures for highway construction have tended to fluctuate
strongly over the years, due to the overlapping of major construction works.
Construction expenditures have averaged FRW 2.5 billion in the 1986-1988
period. Maintenance needs have been growing steadily and faster than actual
maintenance expenditures. The proposed Road Fund (see para 2.13) and other
sources (Government and donors) should ensure that the funds available for
road maintenance are adequate. Road maintenance costs and productivity are
now beginning to be more closely monitored under the Sixth Highway Project
through the set up of cost accounting and management information indicators.



- 12 -
II.  SECTOR ISSUES AND POLICY INITIATIVES
A. Transport Sector Issues
2.01       The main issues to improve the overall efficiency of the
transport sector can be categorized as follows:
(i) flexibility in international transport;
(ii) liberalization of transport operations;
(iii)expenditure programming; and
(iv) other institutional issues.
-- flexibility in international transport
2.02       Being a land-locked country, Rwanda has a clear need for
continuously selecting the most cost-effective transport routes for exports
and imports, while maintaining the security of goods en route and a
continuous supply. These objectives are sometimes in conflict and a choice
of the most important objectives to pursue has to be made. For external
transport, in practice this has led to a desire to maintain several
potential route options in parallel. Nevertheless, some of the external
routes may be more expensive than others, at least for certain commodities
and at certain times of the year. A relatively high degree of flexibility
is therefore essential to make the optimum use of the alternatives
available. In order to meet the requirement of flexible transport routing
for external transport, the mechanism for allocating foreign exchange by the
Central Bank needs to be changed. The objective of this would be to provide
freedom of choice of the most cost-effective choice of transport mode,
carrier and routing at all times.
-- liberalization of transport operations
2.03       For the same objective of reducing external transport cost, the
Government-owned trucking company STIR ought to be in position to operate
freely in a competitive industry on similar terms as other operators. An
effective way of achieving this is by increasing the private ownership in
the company to a point where 51% or more is privately owned. Under the
Public Enterprise Reform Project, assurances were provided by the Government
of a plan for privatization of STIR (see earlier discussion under para.
1.16).
2.04       The other Government-owned transport company, ONATRACOM, is
operating in the passenger transport market, which is dominated by private
operators. As part of the development of a performance contract between the
government and ONATRACOM (i) a clear separation will be made between regular
commercial services, which should cover all operating costs, and services
for which for social or other reasons there may be a case for subsidy; and
(ii) ONATRACOM tariffs will be increased and subsequently liberalized.
Signature of this performance contract is included in the Action Plan (para
6.01).



- 13 -
-- expenditure programming
2.05       Beginning in 1987 under the Sixth Highway project, MINITRAPE has
undertaken regular expenditure programming for a three-year period for road
maintenance operations. Even though the balance between maintenance and
capital expenditures has improved, a substantial increase in maintenance
funding is still required to meet the country's needs. As Rwanda finances
only a part of total road maintenance expenditures, a target of FRW 1.1
billion per year for road maintenance (see para. 1.34) is realistic.
2.06       In 1988, the MINITRAPE expenditure programming process was
extended to include other government expenditures in the transport sector.
This was analyzed by the IDA Public Expenditure Review mission (Report 7717-
RW). Annual preparation and review with IDA of a three-year program of
expenditures for the sector for MINITRAPE and MINITRANSCO (para. 6.01) has
been agreed.
-- other institutional issues
2.07       There is a need for staff with better planning skills who would
be able to influence the design of the transport sector program by focusing
more on the management of maintenance programs.  In order to make the
Government's commitment to road maintenance more effective in practice, the
newly established Road Fund will also need to be effectively administered.
A manpower development plan and a better focus on equipment management are
also important requirements. These issues would be addressed in the
proposed project.
B. Policy Initiatives
2.08       The Government's latest development plans have assigned an
important role to transport in the development of the economy. Transport
investments and policies as stated in these plans have aimed in particular
at: (a) improvement of international transport connections; (b) upgrading to
paved standard of the main road network to facilitate the country's
development and its social and administrative integration; (c) improving the
wider (primary, secondary and more recently communal) road network through
better maintenance of existing roads; and (d) lowering transport rates and
improving transport services in rural areas. These objectives correspond
broadly to the priority tasks of the sector. Major achievements have been
made in each area, and in the first two in particular. For the future,
these broad objectives remain appropriate with more emphasis on the latter
two. More attention will need to be given to translating the objectives
into programs with better balance between maintenance and investment and
more regard to policy and implementation aspects. In particular, cost
recovery and the financial and budgetary capacity to maintain the network,
which has been built up, need to be given high priority. This issue is
being considered in the yearly preparation of maintenance programs and since
1988 in the PER review.
2.09       International transport and liberalization issues (para. 2.01
(i) and (ii)) would be addressed primarily through the enactment of policy
reforms such as those outlined in the Statement of Sectoral Development
Policy (Annex 2.1). Expenditure programming and other issues would be
addressed through credit covenants and the design of the project which will



- 14 -
provide direct financial assistance to some road maintenance activities as
well as assistance to improve planning and training capacity, together with
special areas of concern such as road safety. In addition, the project would
provide institutional support through technical assistance and training to
strengthen the MINITRAPE and MINITRANSCO capacity for planning, monitoring
of transport activities and preparation of improved transport policies.
Statement of Sectoral Development Policy
2.10       One important initiative under the project is the Statement of
Sectoral Development Policy (see Annex 2.1). This is accompanied by an
Action Plan (see Annex 2.2), which together with the Statement has been
agreed.  The Policy has been based on and summarizes the government sector
strategies under the Fourth five-year plan for roads and transport. These
in turn have been founded to a large extent on the studies done under the
UNDP-Transport Planning project (para 2.11) and the Great Lakes Corridor
Study (para 2.12). The main objectives of this sectoral policy are to
increase flexibility in international transport and to further liberalize
transport operations. To achieve these goals, the Government plans to change
legislation which would:
(i) limit the level of price protection given to domestic trucking
companies;
(ii) reduce the minimum required size for a truck fleet to operate
independent international transport; this would increase competition
in the road transport industry;
(iii)change the regulations concerning consular clearance (now used to
give preferential treatment to Rwandese trucks) for transport from
Kenya to statistical data collection only; and
(iv) remove the present obligation to use air transport to or from Mombasa
for certain products. This would allow traders to use the most
advantageous route and mode at any given time for their products and
in particular for high value coffee.
These issues were included in the Action Plan (para. 6.01). It has also
been agreed that the Action Plan be reviewed on an annual basis and updated
or modified as necessary (para. 6.01).
Transport Planning (UNDP)
2.11       Planning and coordination of the sector has been incomplete
partly as a result of fragmented responsibilities among ministries in the
sector. This has been recognized by the Bank and other external aid
agencies like UNDP. The latest, and so far most effective response, is a
transport planning project financed by UNDP (RWA/86/005), for which the Bank
has been Executing Agency. This project, initiated in 1986, in turn built
upon previous UNDP projects, such as the assistance to prepare the Northern
Corridor Transit Agreement (see para 1.07). In addition to ad hoc



- 15 -
assistance to both the ministry responsible for the project, MINITRANSCO and
MINITRAPE for various planning tasks, training of counterparts and seminars,
a number of studies have been carried out. These studies have proved quite
useful for preparation of the proposed project, especially those dealing
with communal roads, internal transport and air transport.
Great Lakes Corridor Study
2.12       The problems of external transport access to Rwanda have much in
common with the problems of other landlocked countries and regions, such as
Burundi, Uganda and the eastern part of Zaire. The Great Lakes Corridor
Study, carried out by the Bank in 1988, analyzes international transport
problems in the Great Lakes area around the large lakes Victoria and
Tanganyika as well as in the main transit countries (Kenya and Tanzania),
and defines the issues and policies required to develop a coherent
international transport-transit strategy for East and Central Africa. After
reviewing the existing and proposed main routes, the study identified the
major issues within the northern and central corridors (infrastructure
problems, transport facilitation and transit regulation); reviewed how each
national policy affects the efficiency of international transport; reviewed
the costs and revenues for the transit countries resulting from
international traffic; identified factors affecting routing decisions; and
described a scenario of traffic flows in 1995 that could result from these
factors. Many of the policy issues identified by the study are addressed
under this IDA transport sector project.
Road Fund
2.13       The first attempt to establish a Road Fund in Rwanda was a Law
approved on August 23, 1963. This law created the "Fonds Routier du
Rwanda", but was never applied because of the complexity of the legal
framework and the Ministry of Finance opposition to the Fund operatiiig
outside its control.
2.14       The Government has now moved ahead and prepared legislation for
a revamped Road Fund (Law and Presidential Decree). The Law has already
been approved by the Rwandese parliament. The Presidential Decree is being
prepared by the Presidency, together with the Ministries of Finance and
Public Works. The Road Fund as presently envisaged would be a small unit,
with a limited number of staff (5 people at most) under the control of both
Ministries (Finance and Public Works). Management of the Road Fund would be
monitored by a committee representing all interested branches of Government
and the road transport industry.
2.15       The Committee would examine maintenance programs and annual
budgets presented by the "Direction Generale des Ponts et Chaussees"
responsible for carrying out the programs. A direct link would be
established with the Public Expenditures exercise to ensure consistency with
the country's macroeconomic objectives.  Once the programs are approved by
the management committee, the Ministries of Finance and Public Works would
make funds available, on a timely and regular basis, to road maintenance
operations. To ensure a proper level of transparency and accountability,



- 16 -
the disbursement procedures would include a double signature of Ministry of
Finance and MINITRAPE. Annual audits would also be instituted (see para.
4.29). In addition, a decentralised procedure to make funds available at
the level of the 'Prefectures" or even the communes needs to be implemented.
Finally, the committee should make sure that the Road Fund receives a proper
level of funding.
2.16       The Road Fund will be externally financed by fuel taxes, axle
taxes and an international road toll and internally by transfers from the
General Budget. External revenues generated under the Road Fund are
estimated at FRW 885 million (US$11 million) annually. The breakdown of
these revenues is as follows:
Fuel taxes                     FRW 780 million
Axle taxes                     FRW 100 million
International road toll        FRW   5 million
Total                     FRW 885 million
This is not sufficient to cover the portion of road maintenance costs which
is financed by Rwanda.  Those costs are estimated at:
Periodic maintenance           FRW 580 million
Routine Maintenance            FRW 340 million
Equipment renewal              FRW 128 million
Salaries                       FRW  64 million
Total               FRW    1,112 million
Moreover this amount covers only national roads and does not include
programs such as communal roads. A financing gap of about FRW 400 million
per year will be covered under the general budget transfers to the Road
Fund.
2.17       In 1986 the Ministry of Finance instituted by Ministerial decree
a petroleum tax that is collected by MAGERWA (Magasins Generaux du Rwanda).
The proceeds of this tax, about US$10 million per annum, have since been
regularly deposited into an account held with the Central Bank (BNR) in
order to finance the Road Fund. That money (FRW 2,383 million or US$29.8
million as of August 31, 1989) has not yet been used directly for road
maintenance, but only through the regular budget.
2.13       The Government would take steps to ensure so that the Road Fund
would function properly during the project period under new legislation. It
has also been agreed that the Government would take all necessary measures
to ensure that at least FRW 640 million (SDR6.0 million) annually from the
Road Fund is used for road maintenance. In addition, at least 10 percent of
total Road Fund resources would be devoted to maintenance of regional and
communal roads (see also para. 4.07).
Reclassification of Road Network
2.19       The present road classification system, established by
Presidential Decree in 1964, contains only 31 roads whereas there are now
over 100 (see also para. 1.32). Aware of the need for a reordering of the
present system, the Government is considering a new classification which
would improve upon the current one in two respects. As a first change,



- 17 -
distinctions within the former "communal roads" category are recognized by
identifying a new category "National Roads of Communal Interest" (those
linking administrative centers of communes with adjacent communes in
addition to the purely 'communal roads" (smaller roads or tracks between
localities within a commune but not crossing communal borders). Other
National and International roads retain their present definition as roads
which link a major urban center to another or to an international border.
The new system is summarized below and promulgation of this Presidential
Decree is a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.02):
--   National Roads of International Interest              (RNI)
--   National Roads of National Interest                  (RNN)
--   National Roads of Communal Interest                   (RNC)
2.20       A second change increases local responsibility for roads vital
to the local economy.  While the administrative and technical responsibility
for RNI, RNN and RNC will remain with MINITRAPE, the local authorities, will
be in charge of other communal roads. This change would be made by
Presidential Decree. Subsequently, redesigning of the numbering system
based on an inventory of the present network.  This inventory allows a
ranking of maintenance needs to be made and a budget prepared, as part of
the national road maintenance strategy supported by the proposed project.
C. Previous Bank Group Assistance in the Sector
2.21       The Bank Group has so far provided US$107.4 million for six
highway projects since 1970 in Rwanda.  The First Highway Project (Credit
196-RW, US$18.8 million, 1970), the Third Highway Project (Credit 475-RW,
US$6.3 million, 1974), and the Fifth Highway Project (Credit 1250-RW,
US$25.9 million, 1982) primarily financed construction of almost 200 km of
the main roads of the country. The results of these projects have been
mixed. Excessive delays and cost overruns occurred during the improvement
works on the Kigali-Gatuna road (80 km) and Ruhengeri-Gisenyi road (60 km).
These difficulties were due to inadequate engineering and construction
techniques, and instability in Uganda causing interruption in the supply of
equipment and materials. The PPAR's, however, concluded that the
improvement works were still justified, as the increases in construction
costs were offset by higher than anticipated traffic growth and greater
savings in vehicle operating costs. The Kigali-Gatuna road later
deteriorated to the point where reconstruction became necessary. This was
financed under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects. Reconstruction is
completed, except for a short section crossing one of the marshes. In view
of the difficulties encountered in the first two road construction projects,
the improvement of the Butare-Kitabi road (53.5 km) under the Fifth Highway
Project was designed with particular attention to soils problems, alignment
and drainage. The supervision team was also provided with an expert in
soils engineering. The final cost of this now successfully completed
project allowed a reallocation of US$5.0 million for completing the
reconstruction of the Kigali-Gatuna road.
2.22       The other highway projects have concentrated on improvement of
road maintenance operations and on institution building. The Second Highway
Project (Credit 299-RW, US$5.4 million, 1971), the Fourth Highway Project
(Credit 769-RW, US$15.0 million, 1977), and the Sixth Highway Project



- 18 -
(Credits 1641-RW and A8-RW, 26.0 million, 1986 and supplement US$10.0
million, 1988) have all supported the road maintenance and reconstruction
program. The first two projects were designed to carry out periodic and
routine maintenance on both paved and earth roads. At the closing of the
Second Highway Project, however, only 50% of targeted works were cor,leted
successfully, mostly due to overly optimistic targets and inadequately
trained personnel. The Fourth Highway Project was designed with more
consideration to the limitations of the Roads Branch, and lack of qualified
staff. The execution of this project was better and by its Closing Date in
1984, 90% of the works had been completed. The successful organization of
labor-intensive teams of "cantonnage" is playing a key role in keeping the
main network passable all year round, accompanied by Umuganda activities
(para 1.27). The condition of most of the paved roads is also better than
for most of Sub-saharan Africa. The lack of qualified candidates and losses
of trained staff to the private sector were taken into consideration in the
Sixth Highway Project, which gave increased attention to staff development,
but also by the use of contractors for certain aspects of highway
maintenance. Nevertheless, technical assistance will still be needed in the
medium term to carry out effective road maintenance operations. Although
most of the initiatives under the Sixth Highway project are still ongoing
(some 56% disbursed), conditions for main roads have clearly improved, while
the Rwandese private sector has been allowed an expanded role.



- 19 -
III.   THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives
3.01       The proposed project, in the form of a transport sector
operation, would be in line with the Government's Letter of Sectoral
Development Policy (see Annex 2.1). It would cover not only the requirements
of the roads sub-sector but also other needs the transport sector as a whole
will be facing in the early 1990s.
3.02       The specific objectives of the road components would be:
(a) to protect capital investment and to increase the service life
of international and national roads through a countrywide
routine and periodic road maintenance program;
(b) to implement cost effective approaches to design, construction,
supervision, and maintenance of these components within resource
constraints;
(c) to strengthen the institutions responsible for implementing road
components through improvement of maintenance planning and
operations;
(d)  to promote communal development and ensure a better economic
integration of the country through the reconstruction and
maintenance of regional and communal roads in selected
sub-prefectures;
(e) to provide the Kibuye prefecture and especially the town of
Kibuye with permanent access to the rest of the country through
the upgrading and paving of the Gitarama - Kibuye road;
(f) to improve resource mobilization to support international and
national as well as regional and communal road maintenance
activities through a newly created Road Fund; and
(g) to consolidate and improve overall road maintenance practices
and achieve a better balance between road maintenance and
construction.
3.03       The objectives of the transport component in support of the
sector development would be:
(a) to improve general policy of the sector as outlined in a
Statement of Sectoral Development Policy;
(b) to support lake transport, vessel maintenance and access to the
shore on Lake Kivu; and
(c) to assist in improved road safety by means of a regular system
of vehicle inspection.



- 20 -
B. Description
3.04       A comprehensive program of road reconstruction and maintenance
activities, institutional strengthening, and transport sector improvements
has been prepared by the Government and submitted to the donor community.
The program comprises:
(a) participation with other cofinancing agencies in the upgrading
and paving of the 75.5 km Gitarama - Kibuye road;
(b) assistance to rehabilitation and maintenance of a pilot project
of some 600 km of regional and communal roads in six selected
sub-prefectures, also in support of agricultural programs in the
Cyangugu prefecture (see Map IBRD 21834);
(c) support to a four-year national road maintenance program
(1991-1994) consisting of:
(i)  resurfacing of 197 km of paved international roads with
single- or double-surface treatment and regravelling of
1,140 km of unpaved (gravel) national roads, as well as
periodic bridge maintenance;
(ii) patching of the entire paved road network (1,107 km);
grading of 2,640 km of unpaved roads; and labor-based
routine maintenance on 2,254 km of gravel roads and on
1,796 km of earth roads;
(iii)regular maintenance of large embankments and of urban roads
as well as of traffic signalling and markings; and
(iv) supply of new construction equipment, logistical support to
MINITRAPE, laboratory supply, equipment and software for a
pavement management system.
(d) institution building and support in the form of technical
assistance and professional training to MINITRAPE and
MINITRANSCO as well as to small- and medium-scale road
construction and maintenance contractors; and
(e) a transport sector program including poli^y actions (see para.
2.10) complementing ongoing or planned ac.ivities by financing
selected civil works and equipment.
-- Uparadina and Paving of Gitarama - Kibuve Road
3.05       The road linking the Gitarama - Mukamira/Ruhengeri road close to
Gitarama with Kibuye on Lake Kivu is one of the last unpaved main roads in
Rwanda. Kibuye is the last prefectural capital which has to be linked to
the rest of the country by a paved road. The Government had obtained
assistance from EEC/EDF for the preparation of a feasibility study and of
detailed engineering including tender documentation for the Gitarama- Kibuye



- 21 -
road. Presently, engineering design work is completed, but tender
documentation needs to be finalized, and will be issued in 1990.
3.06       The present road has a total length of about 86 km and is of
semi-engineered gravel standard in rather unsatisfactory condition. Narrow
shoulders cr no shoulders at all, insufficient lateral drainage, eroded
slopes, as well as potholir.g and rutting of the gravel surface are common.
Pipe culverts are frequently cracked or otherwise damaged; small bridges
have one lane only, and their concrete or masonry substructures and timber
decks are generally in bad condition. Timber on deckings is placed
longitudinally making crossing of bridges dangerous especially when timber
is slippery. Year-round passability of the road cannot be secured for
passenger cars, buses, and trucks. Only four-wheel drive vehicles can pass
safely during rainy seasons.
3.07       Since the road follows the existing topography in very
mountainous terrain, the present alignment is unacceptable and needs major
modifications in terms of reductions in curviness as well as in rise and
fall. The proposed new alignment generally remains on the existing road,
however, major earthworks will be necessary in order to adhere to minimum
horizontal and vertical geometric design standards. This in turn raises
some environmental concerns, which have been subject to a special assessment
(see para. 4.34). The new road will have a total length of 71.5 km after
some 4 km have recently been constructed outside Gitarama. In addition,
some 4 km of side and access roads (e.g. to Kibuye port) have been designed.
Total base cost of road construction including construction supervision have
been estimated at FRW 3.76 billion or about US $ 47.0 million equivalent.
This yields FRW 49.8 million or US$623,000 equivalent per km., compatible
with recent similar road works in Rwanda. Some 50 % of total base cost are
due for earthworks only.
-- Communal Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Pilot Pro1ect
3.08       The project would support a Communal Roads Pilot Program (PPRC)
to improve maintenance capacity and road conditions in 6 sub-prefectures,
representing 19 of the country's 143 communes. The Government selected the
sub-prefectures for their wide diversity of topographic and soil conditions
and for the prospect of carrying out some of the works by small and medium
enterprises (SMEs). In addition, two PPRC areas, in Cyangugu Prefecture,
were selected jointly with the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI) to develop
areas with proven agricultural potential.
3.09       The PPRC would extend over an initial four year period and would
aim at establishing a sustainable maintenance structure at the sub-
prefecture level while carrying out works on about 300 km of regional roads
(roughly 15% of all regional roads) and an equal amount of communal roads
representing about 32 of the total. Maintenance Units would be established
at the sub-prefecture levels to carry out the program. HINITRAPE would
provide technical support and would ensure consistency of the PPRC with
national maintenance strategies (see also para 4.06).
3.10       With a view to this eventual extension of the program, different
methods of implementing maintenance works would be tested locally. Most of
these roads, built to unengineered earth standards, are presently in poor
condition and will require rehabilitation or reconstruction before the



- 22 -
maintenance program begins. The bulk of this rehabilitation would be
carried out by SMEs under the guidance of the Maintenance Units. Later,
routine and periodic maintenance would be done largely by work gangs hired
by the Maintenance Unit, although an effort will also be made to group road
segments and use multi-year contracts as means of attracting SMEs to bid on
road maintenance. For the communal roads the existing community labor
system (Umuganda) will continue to be used, but with strengthened management
from the Maintenance Units, better tools, and training.  The base cost of
the PPRC is estimated at FRW 963 million (US$12.1 million), or some
US$20,000 per km which is in line with costs for similar roads elsewhere.
-- The 1991-1994 NatJonal Road Maintenance Program
3.11       The four-year national road maintenance program would
concentrate on maintenance of priority roads for economic development and on
the expanded use of private firms for maintenance of the main road network.
MINITRAPE will continue to carry out (i) resurfacing of paved roads; (ii)
regravelling of unpaved roads; (iii) patching of the entire paved road; and
to the extent resources permit, labor-based routine maintenance on all
gravel and some priority earth roads. A bridge maintenance program costing
FRW 200 million (US$2.5 million) would also be carried out. Use of force
account brigades would be reduced, and reliance on private firms would
increase, as this maintenance program is carried out.
3.12       Periodic maintenance cost for paved roads will come to FRw 708.5
million (about US $ 8.9 million) while the proposed periodic maintenance
operations for unpaved roads are estimated to be FRw 802.9 million (US $
10.0 million). All routine road maintenance on paved and unpaved (gravel and
earth) roads will come to Frw 636.3 million (US $ 8.0 million). In
addition, regular maintenance of large embankments (estimated at FRW 80
million or US$1.0 million), of urban roads (estimated at FRW 120 million or
US$1.5 million) and of traffic signaling and markings (estimated at FRw 26.0
million or US$0.3 million) will be executed.
3.13 The proposed national road maintenance program will also include the
supply of new road maintenance equipment amounting to FRW 375.5 million (US
$ 4.7 million), logistical support of FRW 100 million (US$1.25 million),
laboratory support (FRW 31.2 million or US$0.4 million), software, etc. for
a pavement management system including a road data base (FRW 30 million or
US$0.4 million).
-- Technical Assistance and Manpower Development
3.14       The multi-year road maintenance program has a significant
component for supporting institutional development in the subsector,
including technical assistance and professional training. The latter two
have been conceived with a view to coordinate the various donors'
interventions. The technical assistance program has been designed to support
development of planning, budgeting, and implementation capacities of
maintenance activities including the establishment and operation of a
pavement management system (such as on the basis of the Bank's HDM-III
model), and to further strengthen general managerial capacities. The
proposed training part of the manpower development program is basically a
continuation of the successful actions undertaken under the Sixth Highway
Project.



- 23 -
3.15       Expatriates for a total of 72 man-months have been foreseen for
the technical assistance component under the road maintenance program.
Estimated cost are at FRW 79.2 million (US$1.0 million). An allowance has
also been made within this category for any studies required for future road
works. For the professional training program there will also be expatriates
for a total of 120 man-months. Estimated cost are at FRW 131.2 million
(US$1.6 million). In additian che proposed regional and communal roads pilot
project will need technical assistance which has beer. estimated at 24
man-months of expatriate services costing FRW 26.4 million (US$0.3 million).
-- Transport Sector Program
3.16       For improved lake transport the project would include funds for
selected civil works and equipment. A first step in establishing improved
ship maintenance, is a modest shipyard, including construction of a slipway
and additional quays for vessels up to 100 tons. The slipway would be
equipped with a marine railway capable of lifting lake vessels, barges and
motorized craft, up to 100 tons carrving capacity, i.e. up to about 50 tons
weight of the vessel. This will be managed by one of the vessel operators
on the Lake Kivu.
3.17       A regular system of vehicle inspection for public passenger
transport has already started. The project would therefore support efforts
by the Government and the insurance industry, to establish and equip an
inspection station in the Kigali area. This would include funds for civil
works, equipment, technical assistance, and logistical support (data
processing equipment) to integrate the new system with the already existing
system for vehicle registration. This will also include the development of
enforcement measures covering other aspects such as vehicle weight
limitations.
C. Project Costs
3.18       The project consists of a transport program for 1991-1994,
financed by various sources and described in more detail below. This
includes the MINITRAPE road program, with some participation from various
donors under earlier projects (IDA under the Sixth Highway project, KfW,
EDF); which will continue also in 1991-1994. The total cost, net of taxes
and duties but including contingencies, is estimated at US$148.85 million
with a foreign component of US$96.61 million (65%) and local costs of
US$52.24 million (35%). Taxes are estimated at FRW 608 million (US$7.6
million). Base costs are expressed in terms of prices as of the end of 1989.
Physical contingencies of 10 % have been added to base costs. Price
contingencies have been added to base costs and physical contingencies.
Price contingencies, for both local and foreign costs, are based on recent
estimates of international inflation of 7.2 % in 1990 and 4.4 % from 1991
onwards. The detailed project costs are shown in Table 3.1.



- 24 -
RWANDA                      Table 3.1
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
US $ million                FRW million        Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign  Total  as 2 of
total
A. TRANSPORT COMPONENT
Lake transport                  1.24     0.89     2.13    99.20    71.20   170.40    41.78
Vehicle inspect. & safety       0.45     1.05      1.50    36.00    84.00   120.00    70.00
Total base cost transport          1.69     1.94      3.63   135.20   155.20   290.40    53.44
B. ROAD COMPONENT
Gitarama-Kibuye construction:
Road construction              11.08    33.24    44.32   886.40  2659.20  3545.60    75.00
Construction supervision       0.54      2.17     2.71    43.20   173.60   216.80    80.07
Sub-total                     11.62    35.41    47.03   929.60  2832.80  3762.40    75.29
Periodic maintenance:
Resurfacing paved roads        2.21      6.64     8.85   176.80   531.20   708.00    75.03
Regravelling gravel roads      3.01      7.03    10.04   240.80   562.40   803.20    70.02
Bridge maintenance              1.63     0.88     2.51   130.40    70.40   200.80    35.06
Sub-total                      6.85    14.55    21.40   548.00  1164.00  1712.00    67.99
Routine maintenance:           7.67      4.96    12.63   613.60   396.80  1010.40    39.27
Other Minitrape services:
New road equipment             0.47      4.23     4.70    37.60   338.40   376.00    90.00
Laboratory & support           0.50      1.51     2.01    40.00   120.80   160.80    75.12
Salary cost                    2.25      0.12     2.37   180.00       9.60   189.60     5.06
Sub-total                      3.22      5.86     9.08   257.60   468.80   726.40    64.54
Communal roads pilot project:
Road rehab. by SME             2.08      2.08      4.16   166.40   166.40   332.80    50.00
Road rehab. force account      4.27      1.83      6.10   341.60   146.40   488.00    30.00
Equipment & vehicles           0.10      0.90      1.00     8.00    72.00    80.00    90.00
Supporting services            0.60      0.21     0.81    48.00    16.80    64.80    25.93
Sub-total                      7.05      5.02    12.07   564.00   401.60   965.60    41.59
Institutional development:
TA Road maintenance            0.10      0.89     0.99      8.00    71.20    79.20    89.90
TA Professional training       0.16      1.48      1.64    12.80   118.40   131.20    90.24
TA Communal Roads pilot        0.03      0.30     0.33      2.40    24.00    26.40    90.91
Training & Studies             0.08      0.74     0.82      6.40    59.20    65.60    90.24
Sub-total                      0.37      3.41     3.78    29.60   272.80   302.40    90.21
Total base cost roads             36.78    69.21   105.99  2942.40  5536.80  8479.20    65.30
Total project base cost           38.47    71.15   109.62  3077.60  5692.00  8769.60    64.91
Contingencies:
Physical                       3.85      7.11    10.96   307.76   569.20   876.96
Price                          9.92    18.35    28.27   793.60  1468.00  2261.60
PROJECT GRAND TOTAL               52.24    96.61   148.85  4178.96  7729.20 11908.16    64.91



_ 25 -
3.19       The base costs of works on paved roads are estimated at
US$43,750/km for resurfacing (periodic maintenance), and on unpaved (gravel)
roads at US$8,800/km for regravelling (periodic maintenance) and at
US$625tkm for grading (routine maintenance). Labor-based routine maintenance
on gravel roads comes to US$1,600/km per year while the same type of
maintenance on earth roads amounts to US$400/km per year. Patching on paved
roads comes to US$1,750/km per year. These unit costs are based on those of
ongoing works under the Sixth Highway Project.
3.20       The man-month cost of technical assistance services, including
salaries, overhead (home office expenses, expatriate allowance, social cost
and other expenditures) and reimbursable expenses (travel,
telecommunications, housing, local transfers, other miscellaneous items)
have been estimated in line with similar and presently ongoing services in
Rwanda.
D. Financing Plan
3.22       Five institutions have indicated interest in a total of US$94.3
million equivalent of ready financing, including IDA (US$40.0 million credit
and US$4.1 million from an existing balance of credit under the Sixth
Highway Project), EEC/EDF (US$32.6 million), SDC (US$9.4 million), OPEC
(US$4.0 million), and FRG/KFW (US$4.7 million). Government contributions are
estimated to be US$54.1 million with the newly created Road Fund to
contribute US$42.4 million (28%). The balance amounting to US$11.7 million
will be provided by the Government's ordinary budget (US$5.0 million or 40%
and its development budget (US$6.7 million or some 3%). The proposed IDA
Credit does not constitute a self-contained project but will contribute 27%
of the overall cost of the program.
3.23       A summary financing plan is given below, details are shown in
Annex 3.1
Table 3.2
Financing Plan                       US $ million
Local  Foreign  Total   % of Total
------------------------------------------------------------
IDA
- Transp. Sector Project  12.70   27.30   40.00      26.9 %
- Sixth Highway Project    1.68    2.39    4.07       2.7 %
EEC/EDF                    8.10   24.50   32.60       21.9 %
SDC                        2.34    7.03    9.37        6.2 2
OPEP                       1.00    3.00    4.00        2.7 2
FRG/KFW                    1.52    3.23    4.75        3.2 2
Government
- Road Fund               18.05   24.32   42.37      28.5 2
- Development Budget       2.53    4.18    6.71       4.5 %
- Ordinary Budget          4.32    0.66    4.98        3.3 S
Total-------52.24------96.61------148.85-------100.0--------
Total                     52.24   96.61  148.85      100.0 %



- 26 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation ArranRements
4.01       The project would be implemented by MINTTRANSCO for the
transport component, and by MINITRAPE for the national road maintenance and
Gitarama - Kibuye road construction components and the communal roads pilot
project component. The expected implementation schedule for major activitiee
of each project component is shown in Cbart 1. This schedule was discussed
and agreed upon during negotiations. The project would in principle cover a
four-year period starting in January 1991. Yearly discontinuation of
certain project elements should that be required.
-- Gitarama-Kibuve Road
4.02       During a donors' meeting held in Kigali in July 1989 it was
agreed that EEC/EDF would finance the first section of the Gitarama - Kibuye
road from km 0.0 to km 40.6 while OPEC, SDC, and IDA would jointly finance
the remaining road section from km 40.6 to km 75.5.   The estimated base
cost of section 1 come to PRW 2.12 billion (US$26.5 million) while section 2
would cost FRW 1.64 billion (US$20.5 million). It is anticipated that
construction would start in late 1990/early 1991 and would extend over two
years. Fulfillment of conditions precedent to signature of financing
agreements between the Government and EDF, OPEC, and Swiss Development
Cooperation for the Gitarama-Kibuye road would be a condition of
disbursement for the IDA contribution to this component (para. 6.03). To
the extent possible, one supervising consultant for all roadworks would be
selected (see draft terms of reference for construction supervision
consultants in Annex 4.1), but under separate contracts for the two
sections. If this cannot be achieved a coordinator for supervision will be
nominated.
-- Maintenance Program
4.03       Most routine maintenance operations on international and
national roads under the proposed four-year program would be executed by
force account, but the use of private contractors, begun under the Sixth
Highway project for certain works would continue. The Directorate of Roads
and Bridges (DPC) in Minitrape would be responsible for its overall
organization, work planning and execution. DPC would be supported by a
technical assistance team consisting of five experts in the fields of
maintenance organization and planning, supervision of maintenance works and
equipment maintenance, general cost accounting, analytical cost accounting
as well as laboratory operations. (see para 3.15)
4.04       To carry out the maintenance works, MINITRAPE would continue to
run (i) its resurfacing and two patching brigades for paved roads; (ii) its
grading and regravelling brigades for unpaved roads, and (iii) its brigade
for traffic signalling and markings. In addition (i) two special work gangs
for large embankment maintenance; (il) two gangs for bridge maintenance;
(iii) two gangs for the production of crusher-run surfacing material, and
(iv) five gangs for urban road maintenance would be used. Minitrape would
also continue to employ some 2,700 workers (cantonniers), and its 225
foremen (capita) for labor-based routine maintenance under the supervision



- 27 -
of its 20 road supervisors who are located in the 10 prefectures and
presently 10 sub-prefectures.
-- Communal Roads Pilot Program
4.05       To supervise execatior. of the Communal Roads Pilot Program
(PPRC), the DPC at MINITRAPE would coordinate technical aspects of program
execution; supervisior of procuremenit, bid evaluatien, and contract award to
ensure compliance with IDA guidelines; annual consultations with the sub-
prefectures on work programs; and monitoring and evaluation of results.
4.06       Although DPC would coordinate the program, the day-to-day
management responsibility will be with the Maintenance Units at the sub-
prefecture level. Composed generally of 2-4 communes, the sub-prefecture
would represent the collective interest of the communes to improve and
maintain the regional roads crossing them, while at the same time deploying
resources in each commune to address local needs with support of Umuganda
(see para 1.27). It is expected that maintenance would be carried out by
work gangs hired directly in two of the sub-prefectures, and by SMEs in the
others where the works are likely to be carried out more economically by
private contractors.   The chief of each Maintenance Unit would be a
qualified road technician made available by MINITRAPE on transfer or
secondment. Additional technical advice would be given by the MINITRAPE
staff (surveillant) posted at the sub-prefecture or prefecture. This
combination would ensure adequate technical input to the program and
consistency with national maintenance strategies.
4.07       The Maintenance Units should be able to draw on support beyond
that provided by MINITRAPE. A fixed percentage of Road Fund receipts would
finance expenditures, including hired labor, incurred in exe:ution of the
program. Priorities, especially between rehabilitation of regional roads
and the ongoing needs of communal roads through umuganda, would be decided
by the Sub-Prefect in consultation with the commune administrators
(bourgmestres). Several NGOs active in the construction sector are also
expected to support the program. As a condition of disbursements,
agreements between the MINITRAPE and each Maintenance Unit would specify the
terms under which the program in that sub-prefecture would be carried out
(para. 6.03).
4.08       The willingness and capacity of Rwandese SMEs to undertake road
reconstruction and maintenance was examined during preparation. On the
basis of this analysis, 8 medium-sized Rwandese construction firms were seen
as having sufficient capacity to carry out the works efficiently and
economically. In addition, over 50 smaller construction enterprises could
also participate, although their capabilities would need to be assessed in
the same manner. A UNDP/ILO-project has been actively training contractors
for small road works for a few years in western Rwanda. Actions to
encourage adequate competition among SMEs would include grouping of works
into larger-sized contracts, and awarding a multi-year contract where
appropriate. Each unit would be supplied with a minimum amount of
equipment, including a 7-ton truck, tractor-trailer combination, some
compaction equipment, and 2-3 bicycles or motorbikes. It would be possible
for SMEs to r^nt or hire-purchase some of this equipment as the program
proceeds.   Prequalification would be done for the entire program at its



- 28 -
outset, and all prequalified contractors would be eligible during the four-
year program period.
4.09       Maintenance Units assisted by MINITRAPE would develop and test a
maintenance management system based on three elements: planning and
scheduling9, controlled execution, and evaluation of results. In this manner
the Units should be able to decide on the work that should tfke precedence
given the available resources. and to determine which method to use. Local
consultants would be responsible for monitoring the physical progress of the
program and the performance of contractors and hired labor. The PPRC would
also collaborate with a unit in MININTER, assisted by the above ILO-project,
which has acquired considerable experience in supporting labor-based
maintenance of local roads. An impact study of the program would be carried
out during the fourth year, to help the Government decide on possible future
expansion.
4.10       Both the proposed national road maintenance program and the PPRC
would involve substantial financing through the newly created Road Fund.
While the overall maintenance program would cost US$58.6 million, US$37.2
million (64 2) would be financed out of Road Fund resources. As regards the
proposed communal roads pilot project, costing US$16.2 million, US$3.9
million (24 2) would be contributed by the Road Fund. Road Fund resources
would be used primarily for the execution of road maintenance works (US$34.6
million) while IDA would largely contribute to the purchase of new road
maintenance equipment (US$7.0 million). The Rwandese Government would pay
MINITRAPE's permanent staff for the program from its ordinary budget.
-- Transport Program
4.11       The transport program, to be implemented by MINITRANSCO, would
need close coordination with the main users. For Lake transport the main
users are ONATRACOM for passenger traffic and two main operators for freight
traffic. For the operation of the Lake Kivu shipyard, an agreement between
the Government and an opsrator, acceptable to IDA, is a condition of
disbursements (para. 6.03). For vehicle inspection the two main insurance
companies have collaborated with MINITRANSCO and ought to continue to assist
in the development of a traffic safety program.



- 29 -
B. Procurement
4.12       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following Table.
Table 4.1  Transport Sector Project (1991-1994)
Procurement Arrangements (US $ million)
Project Element     ICB     LCB   Other  Not Appi.  Total
--------------------_---------------------------------------
a)      b)
Civil Works       29.65 c)  7.47   51.68   30.62   119.42
(10.56)   (5.16)   (6.21)    -     (21.93)
Equipment,                              d)
Materials,        13.57      -       7.05      -     20.62
Supplies, and    (11.24)     -      (0.50)    -      (11.74)
Support Service
e)
Consultant          -        -       8.81     -       8.81
Services            -        -       (6.33)    -     (6.33)
------------------------------------------------------------
Total             43.22    7.47     67.54   30.62  148.85
(21.80)   (5.16)   (13.04)    -    (40.00)
a) Force account civil works;
b) Procurement rules of EEC/EDF;
c) Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by IDA;
d) Including support services and Minitrape overhead cost; international or
local shopping based on at least 3 quotations;
e) IDA Guidelines. The consultant services for construction supervision on
the Gitarama - Kibuye road will be procured under EECIEDF Guidelines, for
section 1.
4.13       Construction of the Gitarama - Kibuye road would be carried out
by contractors under unit price contracts on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) after suitable prequalification process. While
section 1 of the road would be tendered and awarded in accordance with EEC/
EDF procurement rules, ICB on section 2 would be in accordance with the 1985
Bank Group Guidelines (IDA $10.56 million, Swiss Cooperation $9.37 million
and OPEC $4.0 million). These guidelines also apply to the Swiss and OPEC
financing which is managed by the Bank. During the July 1989 donors'
meeting in Kigali a detailed time schedule was established regarding
prequalification of contractors, preparation of bidding documents, timing of
tendering and bid evaluation as well as earliest possible contract award.
4.14       Communal road rehabilitation and reconstruction works under the
pilot project, totalling about US$5.48 million (IDA US$3.89 million), as
well as works under the transport component (IDA US$1.27 million), are too
small (lots of US$100,000 to US$500,000) and scattered to attract the
interest of international contractors. Therefore, LCB would be the most
appropriate procedure. It is expected that Rwandese SMEs (see para. 3.08)
would undertake these works. These contractors would be prequalified on the
basis of assessed capacity to undertake the works.



- 30 -
4.15       In the MINITRAPE road program for 1991-94 is included routine
maintenance works on paved and unpaved national roads. This maintenance
totalling US$46.27 million (supported by IDA by US$2.89 million for spare
parts) would continue to be executed by MINITRAPE already existing brigades.
These brigades for periodic and routine maintenance will be gradually
replaced by contractors as Indicated above (para. 3.11). Since maintenance
works on some communal roads are so scattered and spaced in time in certain
communes, that no local contractors are avtailable, or for which works no
outside contractors can be found at a reasonable price, work by force
account is proposed. Therefore, under Communal Roads Pilot Program such
minor works totalling US$8.3 million (IDA US$6.21 million) would be executed
by maintenance units in the sub-prefectures in addition to works by the SME
above.
4.16       Equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies would be grouped
into suitable lots and procured through ICB in general on a year-by-year
basis. Miscellaneous items of equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies
in lots of less than US$50,000 and totalling no more than US$500,000 may be
procured by international or local shopping on the basis of at least three
quotations.
4.17       Consultants for technical assistance, studies and other services
would be selected following the 1981 Bank Group Guidelines. Their terms of
reference and conditions of employment would be discussed and agreed upon
during negotiations. Construction supervision consultants for Gitarama -
Kibuye road would be shortlisted and selected in accordance with EECIEDP
guidelines, for section 1 and Bank group guidelines for section 2 (see para.
4.02. If possible, one consultant would be selected for both sections.
4.18       IDA's prior review of invitations to bid will be limited to
contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more. These
undertakings were also agreed upon as part of the covenants of the credit.
C. Staffina and Training
4.20       The shortage of qualified engineers and technicians is the
principal cause for the lack of qualified staff in the ministries concerned.
Two additional reasons have contributed to the present situation, i.e. low
salaries in Government services and the lack of serious manpower planning in
the past. Especially the latter is apparent from the fact that in the
ministries concerned the personnel and training functions have not been
given appropriate weight in their organizational structures. To make up for
the shortage of qualified Rwandese higher level staff, MINITRAPE draws upon
the services of several expatriates who are financed from bilateral and
multilateral sources.
4.21       These experts are employed as technical advisors, training
instructors, or as part of project teams. Due to the frequent lack of
sufficiently qualified local counterparts coordination of expatriate
activities has, however, proven difficult in the recent past. As regards
middle and lower level staff the shortages are less severe and certain
functional categories are even overstaffed. A general problem of the
education system in Rwanda is that it leads to uneven qualifications. This
has the severe implication for MINITRAPE that all too often employees for



- 31 -
the middle and lower grades are hired who do not have any vocational
training.
4.22       To overcome MINITRAPE's present personnel needs, a technical
manpower development program has been prepared. In this program, special
attention needs to be given to incentives for key staff in the form of
phased training (see para 1.25). In large part, this would be a
continuation of training activities already started under the Bank's Sixth
Highway Project. A total of 120 man-months of expatriate technical servizes
would be provided relating to training in civil engineering (especially road
maintenance management), data processing (on personal computers),
administration management, personnel management, and management and
maintenance of public works equipment. Some 730 staff would receive
training in these areas at MINITRAPE's training school. Only limited
overseas training (some 60 staff) has been foreseen. A detailed description
of the technical training program is contained in Annex 4.2. Agreement has
been reached on preparing manpower development program for key staff of this
Ministry and MINITRANSCO before the end of 1990 (para. 6.01).
4.23       As regards the proposed communal roads pilot project training
would be limited to training on-the-job, as a continuation of an ongoing
UNDP/ILO project. Given that this project would represent a new approach to
regional and communal road maintenance a sustainable maintenance structure
would first have to be be conceived and field-tested before any formal
training at the MINITRAPE training school would be undertaken. This would
relate to the organization, overall planning, and scheduling of maintenance
works on the sub-prefectural level, to the technical supervision of works
including quality and cost controls, and to the care of road maintenance
equipment.
D. Disbursements
4.24       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 31.1 (US$40.0 million) would be
disbursed on the following basis:
(a) 35% of total expenditures for civil works carried out by
contract for construction of section 2 of Gitarama - Kibuye
road, and 90% of total expenditures for civil works for the
rehabilitation of regional and communal roads by SME,
construction of a vehicle safety and inspection station in
Kigali, and construction of lake vessel facilities on Lake Kivu;
(b) 90% of total expenditures for civil works carried out by force
account for routine and periodic maintenance on regional and
communal roads;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of local expenditures for
equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies; and
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of local expenditures for
consultant services and technical assistance.



- 32 -
4.25       The project is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31,
1996 in accordance with the most relevant standard disbursements table, and
the credit closing date would be June 30, 1997. The estimated schedule of
disbursements, given below, is based on the project implementation schedule
and the disbursement profile of past transport projects in Rwanda. It also
allows for a one year delay from the end of the physical execution of the
project and the last payment to allow for delays in determining price
variations in contracts.
4.26       In order to expedite disbursements, a Special Account would be
opened at an institution acceptable to IDA. An initial deposit of
US$900,000, representing about three months of expenditures for contractors,
consultants, equipment, materials and supplies would be paid at credit
effectiveness. The Special Account for MINITRAPE would serve as a revolving
fund for all IDA eligible expenditures.
4.27       All expenditures from the special account would be reimbursed on
a net-of-tax basis. Reimbursement applications would be grouped into
packages of at least US$20,000 equivalent and would be fully documented. All
expenditures related to the communal roads pilot project would be reimbursed
against certified statements of expenditures for which documentation would
be retained for review by IDA.



- 33 -
4.28        The estimated schedule of disbursements (in U' $ '000)
looks as follows:
Bank Group Fiscal Year            Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarters Ending          at end of Quarter   as 2 of Total
1991
March 31, 1991                         900
June 30,  1991                       1,800
1992
Sept. 30, 1991                      2,700
Dec. 31,  1991                       3,600                9 X
March 31, 1992                       5,400
June 30,  1992                       7,200
1993
Sept. 30, 1992                      9,000
Dec. 31,  1992                      10,800               27 X
March 31, 1993                      12,700
June 30,  1993                      14,600
1994
Sept. 30, 1993                      16,500
Dec. 31,  1993                      18,400               46 S
March 31, 1994                      20,400
June 30,  1994                     22,400
1995
Sept. 30, 1994                     24,400
Dec. 31,  1994                     26,400                 66 2
March 31, 1995                      28,800
June 30,  1995                     31,200
1996
Sept. 30, 1995                     33,600
Dec. 31,  1995                     36,000                 90 S
March 31, 1996                      37,000
June 30,  1996                     38,000
1997
Sept. 30, 1996                     39,000
Dec. 31,  1996                     40,000                100 2
Closing Date: June 30, 1997



- 34 -
E.  Accountint, Auditing, and Reportint Requirements
4.29       The accounting unit which was created under the Fifth Highway
Project will be maintained for carrying out the following responsibilities:
(i) keeping separate general accounts for the project financed by IDA; (ii)
maintaining adequate accounts of all expenditures and operations with
respect to road maintenance and the Road Fund to permit cost accounting of
DE's operations and the determination of unit costs; and (iii) keeping
separate accounts reflecting the expenditures made under the investment
budget of the DPC. Separate accounts also need to be established by
MINITRANSCO for the transport components.
4.30       Agreements have been reached (para. 6.01) that, (i) project
accounts for the two Ministries and the Road Fund would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) such audits will be
extended to the accounting procedures and principles applied for the
preparation of DE's general accounts, its cost accounting and to an
assessment of the adequacy of costs reported and operations of the Road
Fund; (iii) the audited project and Road Fund accounts and the auditors'
report on the general accounts the Road Fund and cost accounting referred to
under (ii) will be submitted to the Association not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year during project implementation.
4.31       Every year, concurrently with the preparation of the annual
budget, the DE will prepare a detailed road maintenance work program for the
following year for the Road Fund Management Committee review and IDA for
comments, taking into consideration the overall maintenance targets set for
the program period. This program will describe the type of activities to be
carried out by each brigade; indicate the estimated output of the brigades
by major activity and the corresponding inputs required in terms of
personnel and equipment, equipment utilization, fuel and lubricants,
materials and spare parts.
4.32       Progress of implementation will be reported by DE on the basis
of the same indicators used in the preparation of the work program. DE will
ensure that the cost accounting system and different management tools which
currently exist in the Prefectures periodic reports are maintained and
improved under the project. These reports should be the basis for adequate
financial management. DE will prepare a quarterly progress report for all
its activities and specifically for the Project and the Road Fund operations
showing targets and achievements by major activity and explaining
significant discrepancies. An annual implementation report will consolidate
this information and provide details on inputs used in the execution of the
program, productivity developments and units costs of the various
activities. For details see Annex 4.3. The quarterly report will be
submitted one month after the end of the period and the annual report two
months after the end of the year. DE will be responsible for monitoring the
quantity and quality of the works carried out by the sub-prefecture and by
contractors. It will outline its findings and recommendations in a note to
be issued jointly with the annual implementation report.



- 35 -
F. Envirommental Aspects
4.33       Most of the project is not likely to have any significant
adverse effect on the environment. As part of the national road maintenance
program and the communal roads pilot project road drainage would generally
be repaired and improved thus substantially reducing erosion potential on
the affected roads. In addition, all rehabilitation and improvement works on
project roads under the maintenance program and the PPRC would remain on the
existing alignments. The technical assistance teams to MINITRAPE would also
assist in developing local capacity to review and evaluate the potential
environmental impacts of road works eithet carried out under contract or by
force account and to conceive and field-test appropriate mitigation measures
if needed.
4.34       The improvement and paving of Gitarama - Kibuye road would
require substantial earthworks amounting to some 7 million cubic meters
(about 93,000 m3/km) and costing (in terms of base cost) US$25.5 million (52
X of total construction cost including supervision). This would include
US$4.07 million to cover base cost for the transport of 100 2 of surplus
excavation material to properly selected deposit sites. In addition to
this, suitable safeguards would be incorporated into bidding documents and
contracts to minimize potential environmental damage caused by hillside
excavation, embankment compaction, erosion, lateral and cross-drainage
facility, and to provide treatment of quarries, borrow and deposit pits
after construction, and anti-erosion protection such as plantations. This
road has been the subject of a special environmental evaluation carried out
in early 1990, to ensure that these concerns have been adequately met in the
project design (Annex 4.4); actions required have been agreed. Furthermore,
such a resettlement and expropriation plan would be prepared for any
families which would need to be relocated as a result of their loss of
agricultural land. Submission of a satisfactory plan would be a condition
of disbursement for this component (para. 6.05).
G. Poverty Alleviation Aspects
4.35       The proposed Communal Roads Pilot Project (PPRC) would improve
road conditions in selected rural areas and would make markets for
agricultural products more easily accessible. It would have a beneficial
impact on the rural poor through lower prices for inputs and consumer goods.
The proposed utilization of local SME and the establishment of maintenance
work gangs under the maintenance cells in the selected sub-prefectures and
their use on routine and periodic maintenance operations is expected to
increase overall employment in the concerned areas. The Pilot Project has
been designed for replicability on a countrywide basis in the medium-term
future.
4.36       Labor-based routine maintenance under the proposed national road
maintenance program would be undertaken over the entire network of
inter stional and national roads which are largely traversing low-income
areas. The project would thus contribute to poverty alleviation on a
countrywide basis in the short-term future. Finally, the improvement and
paving of Gitarama - Kibuye road would provide the Kibuye prefecture and
areas along Lake Kivu with a permanent access which would enable year-round
transport of passengers and commodities and substantially reduce transport
cost.



- 36 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Benefits and Impacts
5.01       Reducing overall transport costs, for external trade as well as
for internal movements of goods and passengers, would have an important role
in the Government's strategy to reduce external imbalances. Other general
policy objectives are to ensure better economic integration of the country
and, by encouraging the private sector, through both transport operators and
construction firms, more cost-effective services could be provided. This
would lead to a reduction of Government expenditures and a more balanced
budget. Nevertheless, the overall reduction of transport cost is
potentially the most important of these aims and also the most directly
perceived effect of improved transport infrastructure and policy.
5.02       Another priority for the transport sector in Rwanda is to
maintain past investments, particularly when the resources available for the
sector are scarce, and to alleviate constraints in the movement, marketing
and export of agricultural products (mainly coffee and tea). The proposed
four-year road investment and maintenance program, which includes components
to be financed under the proposed IDA credit, has been designed to meet the
above objectives. The periodic maintenance program for paved roads (197
kms) and main earth roads (2,640 kms) should allow the saving of greater
rehabilitation costs in the medium term. In addition, about 600 km of
regional and communal roads, in PPRC covering five sub-prefectures, would be
improved and adequate road maintenance would be carried out on the whole
main network (4,100 km). The program, for only road rehabilitation works
and maintenance, is expected to yield an overall ERR of about 70Z.
5.03       Three features in this maintenance program are more emphasized
than in previous highway programs. One is the setup of a program of
systematic maintenance of the communal network, the second is an increased
reliance on private contractors for highway maintenance and the third strong
institutional development components within the sector. The economic
evaluation does not consider the last two aspects individually and
separately from the overall evaluation. Nevertheless the institutional
development thus promoted would provide advantages well beyond what is
traditionally measured by the economic evaluation.
5.04       The program also includes the participation by IDA for upgrading
to paved standards of the road linking Kibuye on Lake Kivu with the
remainder of the paved main road network. The Gitarama-Kibuye road serves a
population in its zone of influence of almost 700,000 (4% of the Rwanda
total) and the most important area for production of arabica coffee in
Rwanda. Improved access to the Lake shore area of Lake Kivu has been
supported by earlier IDA projects, the latest being the rehabilitation of
the main road along the shore from North (Gisenyi) to the South (Cyangugu)
through Kibuye and improved jetties for lake transport under an earlier
agriculture project (Credit 1126-RW), and will continue to receive support
under the recently approved Agricultural Services (Credit 2026-RW). One of
the sub-prefectures for communal roads selected as part of the pilot project
includes 3 communes directly in the zone of influence of the Gitarama-
Kibuye road. Improved access to one of the most spectacular parts of Lake
Kivu will also benefit tourism development of Rwanda. This road therefore



- 37 -
has an important regional development dimension, enhancing other support
provided under IDA financing.
B. Area of Influence of the Proaram and Beneficiaries
5.05       The roads selected for periodic maintenance and for upgrading
(Gitarama-Kibuye) directly serve densely populated areas in the northern and
western parts of the country and in the main coffee-growing areas. The
maintenance program will have a positive impact on virtually all parts of
the country.  The main immediate benefit of the rehabilitation/improvement
and maintenance program will be its impact in reducing vehicle operating
costs (VOCs) (see Annex 5.1 for VOC, Annex 5.2 for the Gitarama-Kibuye road
and Annex 5.3 for the maintenance program). Improved road conditions will
allow better access to productive areas, provide cheaper and more reliable
transport, arrest deterioration of road conditions and improve maintenance
capability. Important benefits not quantified in the economic evaluation
include reduced freight damage, accidents and travel time as well as better
access to social and medical facilities. Except for the institutional
development and transport components and for routine maintenance operations
and supporting MINITRAPE services for which no separate rate of return have
been calculated, all the other program components (covering about 86% of the
program) have been subjected to economic analysis.
5.06       The major direct beneficiaries of the reduced transport costs
will be the owners and operators of cars, buses and trucks. Since internal
freight transport is essentially free of regulation, it is expected that
transport users and consumers alike would benefit from the resulting reduced
transport costs. Avoiding rapid deterioration will prolong the lives of
both the vehicles and the roads. Reduced fuel consumption would also result
in savings, mostly in foreign exchange. The Government will also benefit
(i) from savings through its ownership of vehicles and from deferred costly
reconstruction and repairs, and (ii) from additional foreign exchange
earnings with the improvement of the communal (rural) roads allowing the
country to commercialize and export more coffee and tea at better prices.
Lastly, by developing a local road construction and maintenence industry of
SMEs, one can expect an increase in the utilization of labor in road works
and therefore an increase in employment in this sector.
C. Economic Analysis
5.07       For the maintenance (including resurfacing) of the main roads,
including earth roads, the road sections of the program have been analyzed
by groups of roads. The economic analysis of the road program is based on
an assessment of costs and benefits "with" and "without" the proposed works.
Both "with" and "without project cases assume basic routine maintenance is
adequately carried out. Various scenarios for the level of main road
maintenance have been developed. The analysis takes progressive
deterioration of the road surface into account, resulting in an increase in
VOCs (though at a slower pace in the "with" project case). Only savings in
VOCs have been quantified for the analysis, except for the communal roads
below, following the general methodology of the highway design model (HDM).
Savings in road maintenance cost for the Kibuye Gitarama road have also been
included. Benefits not quantified such as savings in time and reductions in
potential freight damage represent substantial benefits which, if



- 38 -
quantified, would increase the rates of return. The economic evaluation
therefore underestimates the expected rates of return.
5.08       The economic analysis of the communal roads program is based on
a different methodology. The pilot project for rural road maintenance and
improvement will gradually improve the road network within each of the
communes included under the project by providing a small unit with equipment
and other external support. With this support and communal labor, upgrading
and maintenance of a number of kilometers each year is fer3ible. A detailed
work plan will be developed annually, or biannually. The economic case for
this project component rests on the traffic and cost patterns of the roads
in one of the prefectures (Kibuye) for which detailed traffic and cost data
were developed. This information is representative of the situation in most
of Western Rwanda, where many of the pilot project roads are located. The
benefits for these roads are derived as the difference in transport cost
between the current transport cost, including partial transport by head-
loading, and use in the future by motorized transport after the project
roads have been improved. The details of this analysis are in Annex 5.4.
5.09       In 1987, traffic volumes were mainly in the 200-1,000 vpd range
for the paved network and in the 20-100 vpd range for the earthlgravel
network. Traffic growth has been estimated at 4% p.a. for the road sections
on the main highway system, on the basis of past traffic, vehicle fleet
growth (Annex 1.1), fuel consumption (Annex 1.3) and population growth.
5.10       The economic analysis was carried out with costs in 1989 prices,
net of taxes and duties. It was carried out over a 15-year period for
rehabilitation/improvement works (both on the paved and earth/gravel
network) as well as for resurfacing, and over a 6-year period for
regravelling. The costs included in the economic evaluation comprise civil
works, supervision and 10% physical contingencies.
5.11       The cost/benefit analysis which is detailed in Annexes 5.2 - 5.4
and based upon the above assumptions shows that the proposed program is
economically justified. The ERR for the Gitarama-Kibuye road is 132 and the
combined ERR for resurfacing and maintenance of the main roads is about 70%
with the lowest ERR for these individual groups of road sections at 14%.
The combined ERR for the improvement program of communal roads is expected
to be about 13%. For the overall program of road improvements and
maintenance, the ERR is 45%. Various sensitivity tests have been carried
out, with returns ranging from 10 to 59% (see Annex 5.5).
D. Risks
5.12       The proposed road components under the project would be subject
to a number of potential sources of risk: Cost overruns on the construction
of Gitarama-Kibuye road, delays in implementation of the road maintenance
program, implementation problems associated with the communal roads pilot
project, and some institutional and technical risks. As regards the
transport components there would only be the minor risk of slight cost
overruns for civil works.



- 39 -
5.13       The risk of cost overruns on Gitarama-Kibuye road has been
minimized due to a properly done engineering design study and the
availability of recent unit cost data from ongoing construction works on
similar roads.
5.14       The proposed communal roads pilot project constitutes a risk in
itself because as yet unknown terrain would be entered. However, this risk
would be minimized by providing sufficient technical assistance for overall
project implementation, by operating in five selected pilot sub-prefectures
thus spreading the risk geographically, and by limiting the amount of
resources available to the minimum needed in order to establish and field-
test a new approach to communal road maintenance. The success of this
project would also be subject to some institutional and technical
uncertainties. The institutional uncertainties concern the future
allocation of responsibilities for road maintenance, and the level of
funding available for this purpose (Road Fund resources for national road
maintenance vis-a-vis communal road maintenance needs). Technical
uncertainties would concern optimal road surface treatments on national and
communal roads, optimal periodicity of periodic and routine maintenance
operations, and the extent of traffic growth and the benefits associated
with it.
5.15       The most important measures in response to these risks would be:
(a) intensive project monitoring and evaluation; (b) conditioning of
disbursements on satisfactory prior performance and actions regarding
maintenance on national and commur.al roads in particular; and (c) a
possible mid-term review which would provide a formal mechanism for an
orderly restructuring or discontinuation of certain project elements should
that be required.



- 40 -
Vi. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONKENDATION
6.01       During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
a.   an annual PEP for the sector for the next three years be
prepared and annually updated in consultation with IDA (para.
2.06).
b.   an Action Plan be prepared covering particularly the following:
(para. 2.10)
-    remove obligation for certain products to use air transport to
or from Mombasa (para 2.10);
-    new legislation concerning international transport (para. 2.10);
-    regulations changed so that consular clearance for truck
transport from Kenya only be used for statistical registration
(para 2.10);
-    a review of freight handling at Kigali airport be undertaken
(para 1.20);
-    restructuring of Air Rwanda (para. 1.20);
-    a plan for privatization of STIR be undertaken (para 2.03);
-    signature of a performance contract for ONATRACOM (para. 2.04);
C.   the Action Plan be reviewed on an annual basis and updated or
modified as necessary (para 2.10);
d.   a Manpower Development program for MINITRAPE and MINITRANSCO
would be developed before the end of 1990 (para 4.22);
e.   arrangements for auditing are undertaken including the road fund
(para. 4.30).
f.   resources from the Road Fund amounting to at least PRW 640
million (SDR6 million) annually would be used for road
maintenance, with at least 10 percent for communal roads (para.
2.18).
6.02       Promulgation by the Government of the Presidential Decree on
road reclassification (para. 2.19) would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.



- 41 -
6.03       The following conditions of disbursements of funds against
related expenditures would also apply:
a.   For the Gitarama-Kibuye road: that conditions precedent to the
signature of financing agreements between the Government and
EDF, OPEC, and Swiss Development Cooperation for this road have
been fulfilled (para. 4.02); and a resettlement and
expropriation plan (para. 4.34);
b.   for the transport component: that a contract, between the
Government and an agency, acceptable to IDA, be made for
operation of the shipyard on Lake Kivu (para. 4.11); and
c.   for the Communal Roads Pilot Program: that operating agreements
have been concluded between the communes affected and MINITRAPE
(para. 4.07).
6.06       With the assurances and conditions '!dicated above, the project
is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR31.1 mill! a (US$40.0 million) to the
Government of Rwanda.



- 42 -
RWANDA                       Annex 1 1
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Traffic distribution for East Africa - 1987
(000) tons
NORTHERN CORRIDOR
Imports  From      From       Oil      Total       Modal distribution
Mombasa  Region    Imports  rmports    Road        Rail      Air
To:
Rwanda          84       48        82       214       210                  4
Uganda         171       125      188       484      346       138
Burundi         17        5        46        68       68
Zaire           18        18       49        85       85
Sub-total      290      196       365       851      709       138         4
Exports  To        To                  Total       Road      Rail      Air
From:    Mombasa  Region               Exports
Rwanda          46         3                 49        44                  5
Uganda         125                          125        13      112
Burundi          4                            4         4
Zaire           43                           43       43
Sub-total      218         3                221       104      112         5
Total corridor                             1072       813      250         9
CENTRAL CORRIDOR
Imports  Dar-es-  From        Oil      Total
Salaam   Region    imports  Imports    Road        Rail
To:
Rwanda          35                           35        35
Uganda          36                 12        48                 48
Burundi         73        11        5        89        20       69
Zaire           14                           14         5        9
Sub-total      158        11       17       186        60      126
Exports                                Total
From:                                  Exports    Road       Rail
Rwanda           1                            1         1
Uganda          48                           48                 48
Burundi         37                           37         8       29
Zaire           46                           46        11       35
Sub-total      132                          132        20      112
Total corridor                              318        80      238
SOtrHERN CORRIDOR                                  Lake
Imports                                   Total    transport
To:
Rwanda                                        6         6
Burundi                                      87        87
Total                                        93        93
Source: Great Lakes Corridor Study



RM)A                                   Anmes 1.2
Trogwrt Soctor Project
STATITICAL MOTOR VEHICLE FLEET iS4-im6
Averao Annual
---~-------------------------9---------------------------------------------1   Growth note
Vehiclo Type                        164      1986      1966     too?     1096  I   (1964-199W)
P"Gooe r Cars and Jepo         1  0,448    7,144    7,391    7,617    7,906            5.651
Pick-UPC and Mirnibue.             6,706    6.468    7,692    e,536   6,286 1          9.81
Truck*                         I  1,488    1,829    1,767    1,68       1,9369         7.7x
Track/Traileo Ceobintio  1           471       57       00"      746      637 1       16.65
Bu"s                                  111      so       e6       1        133 1        4.6%
Special Vehicles                     225      257       286      266      26 1         4.21
TOTAL                          t 14,479   10,143   17,733   16,054   19,427 t          7.63
I                                              I
Of which privately oeae    I 11,6l1  12,941   14,296   16,0S9   16,490 t            7.6%
Of which publicly oned    I  2,60S   8,202    8,485    8,706    8,937 I            6.21
                         ------------                      -----------
Anal Grow"    e                I       -      11.651    0.61     0..1 8.
Sorce: MINITRANSCO, tigali, Jouly 160



- 44 -
RWANDA             Annex 1.3
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Average daily traffic
(passenger-car units)
1979     1981      1983      1986     1987
CYANGUGU
Cyangugu-Gasare          139       76                264       436
Ntendezi-Kilimbi         165       78        75       120      171
Cyangugu-Bugarama                 364       315      356       426
KIBUYE
Kibuye-Karonge          486      1140       238       184      344
Kibuye-Rubengera        334       746       296      213       296
Rubengera-Gisenyi       332       448       239      395       215
Ruragwe-Nyabisindu      319       151        77       94       242
Rubengera-Gitarama       199      207       496      211       192
GISENYI
Gatumba-Kivumu           62       154       172       323       30
Pfunda-Kibuye           136       222       266       140      152
Mutura-Gisenyi          798      1063      12?1      1166      740
BYUMBA
Kigali-Gaseke           261       580       718       477      675
Kyonza-Gabiro           202                 158       156      253
Cyuru-Gatsibo            179      108       115       164      198
Nyarubungo-Gabiro         37       61        91       104       61
Byumba-Kisaro           280       327       441      517       144
Gatuna-Byumba           244       525       511      336       240
KIBUNGO
Kabarondo-Cibungo       316       333       426      1144      733
Rukira-Ntaruka           162      372       448      477       277
Rwamagans-Kayonza       594       446       563      824       738
Karuso2i-Rusumo          84        74       125       723      220
RUHENGERI                                                      3
Ruhengeri-Muko          450       394       653      380       388
Ruhengeri-Ruger-a       365       537                224       255
Ruhengeri-Gisenyi       796      1168      1563      1289     1026
KIGALI
Rulindo-Base              52      207                914       960
Nycyonga-Tare           481       545       416       289      166
Kicukiro-Kanzenzo       328       123       537       358      464
Remora-Rgendo                    2060      1091      1062     2422
GITAR3UA
Meru-Nyabarongo          149      137       153       178       178
Kigali-Gitrama          919       926      1270      1129     1654
Meru-Mehshiro            272      190       239       188       136
Cykbili-Ndubu             63      124       135       146       145
BUTARE-GIKONGORO
Nymgana-Buhanda          92       208       266       162      202
Butaro-Rubona           998      1107       949      1027     1211
Nyan:a-Muyira            109      178        96       113        55
Gikongoro-Kitabi         197      280       311      1055       330
TOTAL                 10600    15659    14720    16902    16375
Source: Minitrape yearly traffic counts



- 45 -
RWANDA                                       Annon 1.4
Transnport Sotor Project
A.  FML IPORTS l102-1067
(in thousando of tons)
Annuol
1902     198      1964    185      190      1907   Crost Rate
-      ____ --__-          .-    - -   (1082-1907)
Pra>;um Cacoline                   27.41    34.19    33.30    35.52   38.72    37.13         6.32
O;ooiel Ful                        10.51    22.04    21.0    31.83    36.61    27.02         S.?%
TOTAL                              40.98    57.18    S9.30    07.36    73.72    64.15        6.4%
Annuol Groith Roto                     -     21.75      5.62    11.715    0.53  -43.
Sourcos:  iniotry of Economy end Finance, Kigall, July 1080
S.   FUEL PRICES (in Fi  per liter)    1/
Pr;uha Casollno       Olool Fuel
CF Hoabaoo                                   0.60               0.06
Port Handling and 545 Cosat                  0.15               0.16
Pipeline Moaoa-Nairobi                        3.75              3.75
Road Traneport Nairobi-Klgal1               14.96             14.50
Insurance (13 CF Ki;00l)                     0.20               9.20
CIF Kiga;l                                  20.27              26.4
Vagorue CoS" (48 CIf Kigali)                  1.18              1.15
Banking Costa (35 CIf Kigali)                 0.85              9.96
Road Fund                                     0.68              8.68
Import Outioe                               17.64              17.64
Turnovor Tax                                 8.85               3.36
Distribution Profit                           7.06              4.23
Retail Price                                06.00              83.90
tOe; I Pe;co                       _                ss-ome
1/   Moro then 900  of fuol mporito ceow throug  Imboon.
Source:   Direction GOeeieo dse Treansporte, 1N1tRANSCO, tigali. July 1909.



-46-
RWANoA                   Annex 1.5
Transport Sector Project
Traffic AcCldents (1980-1988)
!-------------------------------!   Annual
KigalI ! %  i Other I Total !Growth Rats
1980 !      86 !  8%I  1,607 !  1,693
1981 !     710 ! 47%!    789    1,499 !         -11.56%
1982 !   1,110 ! 52%!  1,022 ! 2,132 !           42.2%
1983 !   1,708 ! 62%!  1,050 ! 2,758 !          29.4%
1984 !   1,668 ! 72%1   658 ! 2,324 !          -15.7%
1986 !  3,133 ! 69%'  1,400 ! 4,533 !            95.1%
1986 !  2,410 1 73%1    913 ! 3,323 !           -26.7%
1987   I       i      i        I        !
!-------------____-_---------------!
Annual Growth Rate (1980-1986) -           11.9%
Source: Pollce Judlclalre Contral  dse Nyablsundu, KigalI, 1989



- 47 -
RWANDA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT               Annex 1.6
Kigali Airport Traffic
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984     1985      1986      1987      1988
Passenger
traffic:
Europe       18008    24865    24191    24540    27870    28562    29601    31063    34051
Africa       23960    23140    22500    20196    21140    20671    23214    26609    30661
Rwanda       13920    20114    29000    28855    18671    14907         8640      7112      8635
Total        55888    68119    75691    73591    67681    64140    61455    64784    73347
Freight
traffic tons:
Intercontinental
Departing    4812      4839      5931      4471      5530      5908     4990      4781      4847
Arriving      4147      5122     5014      4266      7263      4749      6549      3920     2869
Africa (except Mombasa)
Departing      382        11       132       89        66       195       328      304       191
Arriving       152        79        48        4       108        12        11        14       33
Mombasa
Departing   11752    11103       8136      7577      6871      7405     4686      4219      3141
Arriving    17734    15121    11444        9368      7815      8652      5100     4648      3713
Total
Departing   16946    15953    14199    12137    12467    13508    10004           9304      8179
Arriving    22033    20322    16506    13638    15186    13413    11660           858Z      6615
TOTAL        38979    36275    30705    25775    27653    26921    21664    17886    14794
September 1989



- 48 -
RWANDA                       Annex 1.7
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Suinary of investments in the transport sector
1989-1992
TRW millions
Internal financing           External financing   Total
Development Regular Other  Credits  Grants
Budget      Budget
Minit ransco
Kigali bus term.         205                                             205
Veh. inspection        85.6      16.4                                    102
Driver training                   1.2                2.7      28.2      32.1
Provincial bus                                                             0
terminals            126.4                        505.6                 632
Lake Kivu shipyard                                   215       135       350
ONATRACOM buses                                                476       476
MAGERWA storage                             120       350                470
Cyangugu airport          75                                              75
Isaka terminal           60                          545                 605
Mombasa termirnal                                     400                400
Sub-total               552      17.6       120   2018.3    639.2   3347.1
Minit rape
Road maintenanco    4219.7    182.5               2884.5              7286.7
Earth roads           128.6                        361.7               490.3
Bridges                23.6                        172.6               196.2
Kigali-Gatuna          33.8                        304.2                 338
Kayonza-Rusuma         49.3                        495.6               544.9
Kigali by-pass                                      166.6              166.6
Urban streets          19.4                        129.1               148.5
Kigali-Butare          134.4                       1210.5             1344.9
Gitarama-Mukamira    405.4                        3214.6                3620
Gitarama-Kibuyo       329.9                       2480.8              2810.7
Kigali-Nembe          299.5                       2196.5                2496
Technical anseLa.                                     480                480
Sub-total            5643.6    182.5          0  14096.7         0  19922.8
Total sector         6195.6    200.1        120    16115    639.2  23269.9
Sources Public Expenditure Program, May 22, 1989



mum
TRANSPORT SECTOR PMOJECT                    Amece 1.6
Mishwow Expooditureo: I_-1988
(FM mlR Iins, curroet prices)
1960       1961       1962       198"       1904       196l 1966              1967       1986
I. Hiebwy C.metructioe
Govmmee ts tevootmeat budget       a8a.6     14.6        761.4      720.?      634.6     1690.7        676      629.6       654.0
Eutoreol fieociacg (1)             866.3        a..      2749.3     2466.6     3265.3     3362.0     2639.a     1277.6      1729.4
Subtotal                          116.80        ERn      8610.7     32SS.2     6616.9     4332.7     3214.3     18S.0      2263.4
2. Hiowey Moiateaaec.
Oovoramet's recurrent bdgoet       208.9      247.2       316.6      486.9      421.8      430.0      676.0      671.0      67.60
Entereod fioaFcteg (1)             414.6      461.6       868.6      223.6      678.6      270.7      665.4      026.0      649.6     t
Subtotal                          o09.4       699.0      094.3       66.4       899.0      703.?     1126.4     1896.0      1424.6
Total unpealtroo0                 1882.6        ERR      4266.0     38a6.6     4919.7    6038.4      4343.7     a202.0    3807.9
So"ucee: SCUM etudy (aptiI 1966), MINIIRWE
(1): ; ltUleterel sad b lateral



- 50 -                    Annex  2.1
Page 1 of 9
STATEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION SECTOR POLICY
I. Introduction
1.          In Rwanda, a mountainous landlocked country, maintaining an
efficient and safe system for moving goods and people has always been of prime
importance for the nation's development. As a result, the transportation
sector's role -- in accordance with the overall policy reflected in the Fourth
National Economic, Social and Cultural Development Plan (1990-94) -- is to
support food self-sufficiency and other basic development goals. A dense
network of well-maintained roads will obviously promote both increased
agricultural activity and regional specialization in agriculture. Similarly,
i&?roved management of international transportation routes and systems will
help reduce high transportation costs (which currently account for over 30% of
the retail price of goods in Rwanda) and increase access to external markets.
2.          Consequently, there is a need for transportation strategies based
on principles of transparency and applicable within a rapidly changing
economic context. Road maintenance provides an example of this. In 1973, the
Rwandese Government launched a vast road maintenance program, executed on
force account. Because of the success of this policy (and the program of new
road construction), Rwanda nowadays possesses one of the densest road systems
in Africa. At the same time, the experience obtained during that period
suggests that old formulas should not be perpetuated, and that a new
partnership should be sought between the public and private sectors, and the
central and local authorities, in order to maintain and upgrade the road
system.
3.          Because of the need to ensure that transportation policy is fully
integrated into the nation's economy as a whole, the strategic objectives and
the activities to be undertaken in the sector must oe periodically re-
examined. The present document sets forth the main conclusions resulting from
such a re-examination.
II. Strategic Objectives
4.          Before presenting the specific policies that the Rwandese
Government intends to implement, it will be helpful to examine the principles
on which all its future transportation activities are to be based.
5.          First, sector policy will continue to be guided by the objective
of increasing the accessibility of both the country and its various regions.
Each of the international routes linking the administrative centers of
prefectures with the country's frontiers serves to reduce the isolation of
several important regions, and the Government must therefore continue to pay
special attention to such roads.



- 51 -                     Annex  2.1
Page 2 of 9
In future, maintenance will be particularly emphasized, because
sufficient progress has been made on the construction program. However,
although the national and international road network is already making a
considerable contributian to development, the poor condition of the roads
linking communes and within individual communes all too often hinders the
marketing of goods and the movement of people.
6.          The transportation sector is a net consumer of foreign exchange,
particularly as regards equipment, energy (fuel) and lubricants. As a result,
measures must be adopted for reducing transportation costs. This second
objective has several implications. With regard to internal activities, the
use of labor-intensive methods using local materials will be intensified,
while, at international transportation level, considerable efforts will be
devoted to ensuring that there is greater competitiveness among public and
private operators, and that Rwandese operators continue to be encouraged.
7.          Third, transportation management will be imRroved in order to
enhance the performance of public and private operators. The necessary
measures will be adopted to improve the operations of transportation agencies,
particularly ONATRACOM, STIR and Air Rwanda. The Government will also improve
road safety and the management of government freight transportation.
Similarly, the maintenance program for commune roads (soon to be implemented)
will employ both national and local resources, strengthen intercommune
cooperation, and support local initiatives (particularly umuganda) by
providing appropriate training.
III. Internal Transportation
8.          In order to improve internal transportation, measures must be
adopted for maintaining the existing system and rehabilitating priority
sections of road, training personnel, establishing an institutional framework
using a maximum of local and national expertise, and regularly allocating
financing for maintaining the system at all levels.
III.1 Road Maintenance Strategies
A. National Roads Serving International and National Routes and Communes
9.          Currently, a new classification for national roads is being
examined, and, once promulgated, will establish the following types:
-     RNIs (Routes nationales d'int6r6t international:  national roads
serving international routes);
-     RNNs (Routes nationales d'int6rdt nati onal:  national roads
serving the nation);
-     RRNCs (Routes nationales d'int6r6t communal:  national roads
serving communes).



- 52 -                     Annex  2.1
Page 3 of 9
10.         MINITRAPE (The Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Water
Resources) will continue to be administratively and technically responsible
for RNIs, RNNs and RNCs. Over the last five years, the construction and
upgrading of RNNs and RNIs (supervised by MINITRAPE) has increased the
accessibility of many regions of the country. However, this does not mean
that the period of new construction is at an end, because the Government
intends to finance certain other roads, particularly those serving Gitarama-
Kibuye, Kigali-Nyamata-Nemba and Ntendezi-Kibuye-Gisenyi, which are essential
for developing tourism on the shores of Lake Kivu. Nevertheless, the country
will soon have used up all its capacity for paving national and international
roads, and this justifies the emphasis on maintenance that has been evident
over the last several years. For the near future, MINITRAPE will continue to
perform maintenance, mainly on force account. However, it will also seek to
identify the best ways of transferring such works to local enterprises. In
the case of new construction, MINITRAPE may withdraw more rapidly from its
force account operations.
. I
B. Communt Roads
11.         The communes themselves will continue to be responsible for
commune roads, with technical support from MINITRAPE. So far, a lack of
physical and human resources has prevented communes from properly maintaining
the network of "intercommune" and lintracommune" roads. In response to
increasing demands from local officials that this problem be solved, the
Government has decided to launch a pilot maintenance program for commune
roads, and this will be implemented in geographically diverse areas. Because
these roads often serve several communes, the subprefects in the various
subprefectures will supervise maintenance services. Road inspectors (either
seconded or assigned to the subprefectures by the central Government) will
manage these services on behalf of the subprefectures. Operations will be
constantly monitored by MINITRAPE, which is responsible for the road
maintenance strategy. Monitoring at prefecture level will be by the Public
Works Supervisor (Surveillant des Ponts et Chaussees, acting as a technical
advisor), and at national level by the Directorate General of Public Works
(Direction GUn6rale des Ponts et Chaussdes), which will coordinate the program
with the overall road maintenance strategy. In certain groups of communes,
SMEs will be encouraged during the pilot program to undertake upgrading and
maintenance operations on commune roads.
C. Urban Streets
12.         Responsibility for urban streets is currently being decentralized
from MINITRAPE to the urbanized communes. The process will be gradual, and
implementation will depend on the technical and financial capacity of the
urban centers in question. It will begin with Kigali, and the Prefecture of
the City of Kigali will assume responsibility for street and road maintenance
in about 1992. Meanwhile, MINITRAPE will continue to maintain urban streets.
III.2 Road Safety
13.         Several measures will be adopted to reduce the high accident rate
and improve road safety. A new Haulage Code is soon to be promulgated, and



- 53 -                     Annex  2.1
Page 4 of 9
this will govern axle loads, compulsory use of seat belts, and improved
enforcement of the Code by the gendarmerie. The Government also intends to
establish an automobile inspection center in Kigali, and this service may also
be extended to other urban centers. Similarly, the Automobile Register will
be completed, modernized and computerized, thus increasing its efficiency. A
network of driving schools will be established, and a program introduced for
training driving instructors and implementing the findings of the road safety
study.
III.3 Management of Government Vehicle Fleet
14.         A program will be introduced for improving the management of
government transportation, its immediate purpose being to computerize the
registration procedures applied to government vehicles and trucks.
III.4 Road Infrastructure
15.         Special attention will be given to identifying the causes of the
excessively rapid deterioration of road infrastructure. An action program
will be prepared, placing particular emphasis on standardization of road
infrastructure and support for the prevention of vehicle overloading.
II.5 Road Terminal
16.         Because the only road terminal in Kigali has reached
saturation point, a study has been made of the need for new installations.
The Government has decided to begin construction of the first of these in
Nyabugogo (Kigali), and a decision on the second center -- in Kicukiro/Remera
(Kigali) -- will be taken in light of practical experience with the Nyabugogo
center and projected demand.
111.6 Passenger Transportation
17.         Internal passenger transportation on paved roads is unregulated,
and this leads to overloading, excessive speeds and accidents. In the case of
unpaved roads, problems result from the reluctance of private operators to use
them, so .hat all the responsibility for operating on such routes is left to
ONATRACOM (the National Board for Public Transportation), and the resulting
financial losses, together with other factors (in particular, inadequate
management resources), have a negative impact on the agency's performance. To
solve this problem, a committee was formed consisting of representatives from
all the services concerned, its purpose being to draw up a Performance
Contract setting forth the reciprocal duties of the Government and ONATRACOM.
The document is based on a statement of ONATRACOM's objectives and on the
preparation of an operating program in line with these objectives. The
Contract will be signed in the near future.
III.7  Freight Transportation
18.         Within Rwanda, there is little commercial transportation of
freight, since operators usually transport their own goods. Because of the
boom in producers' associations and the problems facing interregional



- 54 -                         Annex  2.1
Page 5 of 9
commerce, the Government will do everything possible to establish a favorable
environment for restructuring and professionalizing this sector. These
efforts will be coordinated with the organization of supply and distribution
channels.
III.8 Lake Transportation
19.         Action to develop lake transportation is a priority, because of
the natural conditions favoring water-borne transportation, particularly on
Lake Kivu, and the problems hindering trade among the Cyangugu, Kibuye and
Gisenyi Prefectures, which are located on the shores of the Lake. Such action
is especially important because land transportation costs are particularly
high, and this hinders the movement of coffee and tea.
20.         The Government intends to develop transportation on Lake Kivu by
rehabilitating the fleet. The following measures are planned:
-     constructing new wharfs and berths;
-     constructing a shipyard for building and maintaining new vessels;
-     acquiring new passenger and freight vessels;
encouraging private enterprise to produce more launches and other
craft.
III.9 Air Transportation
21.         Because the distances between the administrative centers of
prefectures are short, road transportation is preferred to air transportation.
Consequently, Air Rwanda's internal operations will be more concerned with the
development of tourism.
IV. International Transportation
22.         For several years, the aim of the Government's external
transportation policy has been to mitigate the effects of the country's
isolation. The following have been the basic objectives:
-     diversifying access routes to external markets;
-     reducing transportation costs;
-     making air transportation management more efficient;
-     improving the coordination of transportation at regional level.
IV.1 Diversification of Access Routes
23.         For the transit of goods to be assured, it is essential for the
country to have a number of access routes to the Indian Ocean. The efforts to
revitalize the Central Corridor (the road and projected road/rail link across



55 -                      Annex  2.1
Page 6 of 9
Tanzania to the port of Dar es Salaam) are evidence of the progress made in
this regard. Future efforts will concentrate on reducing the main obstacles
to greater diversification (i.e. the condition of the infrastructure in the
Corridors, and administrative and regulatory obstacles).
24.         As regards the Northern Corridor, the priorities were defined at
the meeting of ACTT (the Transit Transportation Coordination Authority) in
Kigali in May 1987. The EC has provided financing (although additional
sources of funds must be identified) for surfacing a number of sections so
that, by 1992, there will be a good paved road from Mombasa to Kigali.
Construction of a Rwandese warehousing facility in Mombasa could help limit
storage costs in the port.
25.         So far, institutional, legal and management considerations
regarding the Central Corridor have been dominated by infrastructure
requirements, particularly at Isaka, the rail/road transshipment point between
Dar es Salaam and Kigali. The emphasis on infrastructure must be maintained.
Aside from work on the terminal (which is about to be initiated), the
additional facilities (already identified) must be promptlv installed, so that
the investments already made can produce a return. The EC has provided
financing for the final section of the road (from Bukombe to Isaka, in
Tanzania). In view of the physical progress made, much more attention will be
given in future to the organizational and legal prerequisites for the
efficient operation of the Central Corridor. In the very near future, the
Government plans to enter into a management contract with MAGERWA, and this
contract will also govern certain issues relating to TRC (Tanzanian Railways).
Greater efforts will be made to ensure that all interested parties ratify the
general agreements providing for the proper operation of the Central Corridor.
As regards the Isaka Terminal project, an interagency task force will be
established consisting of lawyers and other specialists from the ministries
and other bodies concerned. It will examine all aspects of the matter, so
that an organization plan for activities in Isaka can be prepared, together
with an institutional and legal framework for the terminal.
IV.2 Reduction of Transportation Costs
26.         Criteria for ensuring economic and financial profitability will be
applied to the activities undertaken for facilitating external access, and
such criteria obviously provide the best guarantee against increases in
transportation costs. At one time, the reason for the unaffordable prices
charged was the lack of Rwandese nationals operating in the Corridors.
However, establishment of the STIR transportation enterprise, together with
other related measures, has changed this situation, and Rwandese trucks now
account for a considerable share of operations. For example, this is true in
the case of tank trucks, future purchases of which will be limited to
replacements. Future efforts will be increasingly devoted to increasing the
competitiveness of Rwandese operators vis-A-vis foreign carriers. In this
regard, it should be noted that a management audit of STIR has been initiated,
and its conclusions will provide the basis for recommendations on the
enterprise's internal management and external development. These
recommendations will be incorporated into external transportation policy. In
addition, truck operators will be encouraged to form transportation



Annex 2.1
- 56 -                      Page 7 of 9
enterprises that can negotiate genuine "transportation contracts" with the
various economic operators. Consequently, professional enterprises and
associations in the transportation sector -- such as STIR, Air Rwanda,
Association des Transporteurs Rwandais (the Association of Rwandese
Transporters) and Conseil des Chargeurs (the Council of Shippers) -- will be
reorganized and developed.
27.         The Government will also continue to encourage the adoption of the
DTDR (Document de Transit Douanier par Route: Customs Road Transit Document),
in accordance with the recommendations of the Preferential Trade Area
(PTA/ZEP). Similarly, under the Central Corridor agreements with Tanzania,
the Government will ensure that any agreements made will serve to reassert the
preferential customs treatment applied to the use of the Corridor
(particularly as regards the use of transit passes, the correct services to be
provided, and the legal levels of fees and taxes).
IV.3 Air Transportation
28.         The same criteria of economic and financial profitability and
safety will govern the policy on air links. The findings of a seminar held in
Kigali in May 1988 apply to all economic operators involved in air
transportation: i.e. Air Rwanda's choice of aircraft and operating methods,
price policies, the relationship between the company and the Government, and
measures relating to competition among the various modes. From 1990, anti-
noise regulations will prevent Air Rwanda's Boeing 707 from operating in
Europe, and the Government now plans to seek other routes for this aircraft,
and lease space for international passenger and freight transportation from
other airlines serving Kigali. The price levels set must encourage traffic,
but also provide the operator with adequate profits. As far as possible, they
must also be in line with those applied in neighboring countries, so that
traffic will not be diverted to these.
29.         In order to promote healthy competition for freight between air
and road transportation, the Government plans to adopt measures to avoid
favoring any one particular mode, improve the air transportation tax system,
and simplify administrative procedures.
IV.4 The Regional Coordination of Transportation
30.         Several measures will be adopted (including those identified
above) in order to coordinate transportation systems at regional level. In
addition to the above examples, the Government will closely examine the
justification for the planned establishment of a joint airline by the member
countries of CEPGL, and will accept this proposal if it appears viable.
Rwanda is also expected to play a greater role in IATA and AFRAA pricing
negotiations, and will adopt the policy of engaging in consultation with
neighboring countries with regard to airline prices.
V. Implementation
31.         The above programs will be monitored by MINITRANSCO (the Ministry
of Transportation and Communications) and MINITRAPE (the Ministry of Public



- 57 -                        Annex  2.1
Page 8 of 9
Works, Energy and Water Resources). To this end, a standing joint
consultative body will be established by these two agencies, to be responsible
for tasks such as the following:
-     planning and programming road infrastructure;
-     imposing the appropriate technical standards for this
infrastructure;
-     coordinating and supervising the use of this infrastructure in
order to achieve improved performance and durability.
For each subsector, an Action Plan will indicate the specific activities that
the Government intends to undertake in order to implement its strategies. The
scheduling of these activities will be indicative, and will be periodically
adjusted in consultation with Rwanda's partners in this sector.
32.         Several of these activities relate to the establishment of
modalities for applying transportation policy. The Road Fund will help
provide more regular financing for the maintenance of all roads, both national
and commune. The Government will also adopt two additional measures. First,
it will apply a formula to ensure that a specific share of the financing from
the Road Fund is allocated to each road category. It will also supplement the
Road Fund by means of annual budgetary appropriations. The level of these
will vary, of course, depending on economic and financial circumstances.
33.         The development of the sector calls for a considerable upgrading
of personnel qualifications, and -- therefore -- of training at all levels, so
that the activities of the Civil Engineering Training Center (currently
limited to the training of CAP-level mechanics) must be broadened. Training
activities will be intensified, with the particular purpose of improving road
maintenance at local level, using local enterprises as much as possible.
34.         The Government will rapidly transfer to local enterprises those
tasks that are currently performed on force account. The following two lines
of action are necessary for implementation of this policy:
-     providing encouragement to SMEs, including Rwandese construction
enterprises;
monitoring and, if appropriate, disseminating the experience
gained in the commune roads program from the use of local
enterprises to perform maintenance work.
The Government is also seeking other ways of encouraging the construction
sector, particularly by the use of local construction materials and the
promotion of labor-intensive methods.
35.         In the long term, Intercommune Development Credit will become a
source of financing for productive investment for the communes, and feeder and
connecting roads are certainly productive investments. Consequently,



- 58 -
Annex  2.1
Page 9 of 9
consideration will be given to any means by which communes can obtain access
to this Credit on sound financial terms and thus make such investments.
Conclusion
36.         The Rwandese Government has spared no effort in the vigorous
implementation of its transportation policy. It will at all times endeavor to
maintain and increase the progress made in this sector, so that transportation
can play an increasingly important role as a source of stimulus and experience
for the country's economic activity as a whole.
Kigali, February 8, 1990
A. Ntagerura                                          Joseph Nzirorera
Minister of Transportation                            Minister of Public Works,
and Communications                                    Energy and Water Resources



- 59 -
Annex 2.2
Page 1 of 3
RWANDA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Action Plan
Objective            Plan of Action                      Calendar
Interior transport
1. Surface transport
Improve road        Prepare final legislation            Done in 1989
maintenance          concerning the Road Fund
Begin pilot program for             15 December 1990
communal roads
Decree concerning                   end June 1990
road classification
Improve public      Sign performance contract            end September 1990
transport            for ONATRACOM
enterprises
Road safety         Approval of Road Law to              end October 1990
reduce truck overloading
Program of trainers for             end 1990
driving school
2. Water transport
Improve Access      Prepare detailed engineering         Third quarter 1990
and an economic and financial
evaluation for small ship-yard
with a slip-way for upto
100 ton capacity vessels
Prepare a program of additional    end 1990
jetties on Lake Kivu -



- 60 -
Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 3
International transport
Diversification of  Contract between the Goverrment    end 1990
of access corridors and Magerwa concerning the
operation of the Isaka terminal
Establish the organisation of       end 1990
the Isaka terminal for operations
of the terminal
Reduction of         Program of support to the           during 1990
external transport  Secretariat for coordination
costs                of the Northern Corridor Transit
Agreement
Privatization  of STIR              during 1990
after current audit
Legislation for international       First quarter 1991
transport
Change Decree concerning price      March 1990
for international transport to
reduce tariffs
Revitalize the Association of       June 1990
International Transporters
Continue to encourage operators    June 1990
to use the corridors without
distinction
Progressively increase competition during 1990
in international transport
Use the ITAR document               First quarter 1991
only for statistical
data collection
Modify tariffs to reduce            First Quarter 1991
overload of trucks
Modify Magerwa tariffs to be more  Fourth Quarter 1990
cost-based
Modal competition   Remove the obligation by BNR for   end 1990
certain products to use air
transport
Improve division of responsi-       end 1990
bilities for cargo handling at
Kigali airport



- 61 -
Annex 2.2
Page 3 of 3
Coordination of      Coordination of air transport       First quarter 1990
transport           with other CEPGL countries
including possible use of
medium-range aircraft for
regional routes
Financial restructuring of          during 1990
Air Rwanda
Simplification of procedures        during 1990
of BNR and customs
Prepare an investment program       November each year
and expenditure program for three
years and update yearly
Organize a donors meeting for the yearly
sector each year to coordinate
action



RWANDA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT                                  Annex 3.1
Financing Plan     1991-1994
USS million
Project components         Total      Administration                IDA               EDF    Fed. Rep.  OPEP   Swiss    TOTAL
cost   Ordinary Developm.Road      HWY 6    Transport             Germany            Cooper.
Budget   Budget   Fund               project
A. Transport component
Lake transport              2.89              0.29                         2.60                                             2.89
Vehicle Insp./Safety        2.04              0.20                         1.84                                             2.04
B. Road component
Gitarama-Kibuye road
-road construction         60.27              5.72                        10.56      30.62               4.00      9.37    60.27
-construct. supervision    3.68                                            1.70       1.98                                  3.68
Road maintenance
-periodic                  29.10                       21.63     2.72                           4.75                       29.10
-routine                   17.17                       14.01     1.35      1.81                                            17.17
Other Minitrape Service
-New road equipment         6.38                        0.63               5.75                                             6.38
-Laboratory & support       2.73     0.66               2.07                                                                2.73
-Salary cost                3.22     3.22                                                                                   3.22 o
Communal roads project
-road rehab. by SME         5.48                        1.59               3.89                                             5.48
-rehab. by force acct.      8.30                        2.30               6.00                                             8.30
-equipm. & vehicles         1.36                        0.14               1.22                                             1.36
-supporting services        1.10     1.10                                                                                   1.10
Institutional develop.
-TA road maintenance        1.34              0.13                         1.21                                             1.34
-TA profes. training        2.24              0.22                         2.02                                             2.24
-TA coun. road proj         0.44              0.04                        0.40                                              0.44
-Training & Studies         1.11              0.11                         1.00                                             1.11
TOTAL                      148.85     4.98     6.71    42.37      4.07    40.00       32.60     4.75      4.00     9.37   148.85
April 1990



- 63 -
Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 5
Terms of Reference for Construction Supervision Consultants of Gitarama -
Kibuye Road / Transport Sector Project - Rwanda
I. General
For the construction of Gitarama - Kibuye road (75.5 km) the
Government of the Republic of Rwanda is giving notice of a restricted
invitation to tender for the supervision and technical control of the works.
The road has been divided into two sections which are to be supervised by one
consulting company.
Section 1, from Gitarama to PK 40,6 will be financed by:
- The European Development Fund (EDF), and
- The Republic of Rwanda (RR).
Section 2, from PK 40,6 to Kibuye will be financed by:
- The Swiss Development Corporation (SDC),
- The Special Fund of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries (OPEP),
- The International Development Association (IDA), and
- The Republic of Rwanda (RR).
II. Terms of Reference for Consulting Engineers
1.        Task of Consulting Company
1.1       The task of the consulting company shall be to supervise the
improvement and asphalting of the Gitarama - Kibuye road and to control the
execution of the works. The consulting company shall provide the personnel and
all other inputs necessary -i make sure that the requirements of the Rwandese
Administration are met.
1.2       The consulting company will perform its tasks under the control of
the Rwandese Administration and in accordance with the regulations and
standards in force in Rwanda, and the provisions of the present terms of
reference. The consulting company will be responsible to the Administration for
the timeiy and efficient execution of the works.
1.3       The  tasks  of  the  consulting  company  will  also  include  the
preparation of monthly reports and of administrative and technical documents
concerning the project, as the case may be. To carry out the tasks involved,
the consulting company will provide the personnel listed in section 3 of these
terms of reference and will appoint a team leader.



- 64 -
Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 5
1.4       The consulting company's team leader will report directly to the
Administration. The latter can delegate part of its powers to him. The
Administration will regard the consulting company's team leader as the contact
person responsible for the consulting company's entire personnel.
1.5       The team leader and each member of his team will keep away from all
political and/or religious Rwandese groups during the entire term of the
contract and shall conduct himself in a dignified way which will not be harmful
to the performance of his duties.
1.6       Vis-a-vis third parties, the team leader will treat as strictly
confidential all data, information, and documents he becomes acquainted with
in the course of the performamce of his duties under the present contract. He
will remain absolutely independent of the contractor whose supervision forms
the subject of the present contract.
2.        Functions to be performed by Consulting Company
2.1       The following preparatory work will be requireds
-     Preparing and conducting an information meeting for contractors
interested in the works;
-     Assisting the Administration in the evaluation of contractors' bids,
preparing an evaluation report, and preparing the contract;
-     Reviewing the design consultant's final engineering design.
2.2       The following supervision work will be required:
-    Checking the work schedule(s) submitted by the contractor(s);
-    Checking other calculations and working drawings submitted
by the contractor(s);
-    Submitting to the Administration the above documents with coments,
if any, and approving these documents;
-    Checking topography and lay-out;
-    Directing and supervising controls of the quality and placing of
building materials, evaluating the results;
-    Checking the proper application of the tender documents governing
the contract(s) for the works;
-    checking and approving the construction log book with:
- date
- weather conditions
- work progress
- detailed instructions
- comments on the quality and volume of the works carried out
- counter-signature of contractor(s);
- preparing instructions for signing by the Administration and
informing the contractor(s) of the instructions;
- holding site meetings and preparing reports.



- 65 -
Annex 4.1
Page 3 of 5
2.3       The consulting company shall check the execution of the works by:
-     dealing with contradictory statements of  work done;
-     checking the quantity measurements presented by the contractor(s);
-     checking the contractor(s)' monthly accounts and transmitting them
to the Administration;
-     reviewing,  at quarterly intervals,  the quantity estimates  and
updating the bill-of-payments book vis-a-vis the estimates,
indicating the delays in the works as well as any modifications of
the financial planning that might become becessary;
-     analyzing  unforeseen  elements  and  events,  e.g.  requests  or
complaints on the part of the contractor(s), additional works
required, etc... .
2.4       The consulting company will prepare a monthly report for each
construction section:
-     work progress compared with the schedule;
-     statements of account and comparison with the schedule;
-     evaluating the work proposal for the subsequent quarters;
-     description of conditions under which works are executed;
-     listing of Important correspondence made and their acceptance;
-     statement of accounts of consulting company;
-     composition of supervisory team;
-     services rendered by the consulting company;
-     technical proposals and service instructions;
-     comments on the results of laboratory tests and the quality of works
achieved.
Each progress report for section 1 must be submitted in French in
(5) copies. Each report for section 2 must be submitted in French in (10) and
in English in (5) copies.
2.5       Together with its technical and financial proposals the consulting
company will submitt the curricula vitae of each expatriate team member. The
personnel proposed can only be replaced for valid reasons (sickness confirmed
by medical certificate, resignation, etc.) and must be replaced by persons
whose qualifications and professional experience are equal or better than those
of the candidates initially proposed.
2.6       The consulting company will re-examine the engineering designs and
tender documents until it is completely satisfied and able, wP-h a thorough
knowledge of the subject matter, to assume full responsibility i r the proper
supervision and technical control of the works execution. The consulting
company will re-examine the plans, drawings, and tender documents, and make any
modifications necessary. The consulting company will be completely responsible
for the reviewed engineering study.



- 66 -
Annex 4.1
Page 4 of 5
2.7       The consulting company will submit to the contractor(s)
free of charge and in the form of an addendum to the tender documents any
modifications it might make. A lump sum payment for the review of the
engineering studies and tender documents will cover all expenditures of
experts' fees and costs involved in the modification of the documents, air
tickets, temporary accommodation in Rwanda, local support personnel, local
travel, the costs of equipment, etc... . This lump sum payment will be made
upon completion of this work.
3.        Composition and Qualifications of the Supervision Team
3.1       A qualified engineer with at least 10 years of experience in road
construction work will be put at the disposal of the Administration by the
consulting company free of charge for the contractors' information meeting and
the inspection of the sites. The duration of this assignment is estimated to
take one week. One public works civil engineer with at least 15 years of
experience in road construction, including 10 years in Africa, and with a good
command of written and spoken French and English will assist the Rwandese
Administration in the evaluation of contractors' bids and in the drafting of
a contract.
3.2       The consulting company's supervision team to be based permanently
in Rwanda for the period of construction will consist of the following members.
The Rwandese Administration reserves the right to ask for any personnel whose
services it might consider to be inadequate to be replaced. In this case the
costs involved will be borne by the consulting company.
A) One (1) TEAM LEADER (31 months): A civil engineer with at least
12 years of experience in the design and supervision of civil engineering and
road construction works, including 8 years in developing countries, preferably
in Africa, and with a good command of spoken and written French and English.
B) One (1) ROAD/STRUCTURAL ENGINEER (28 months): A civil engineer
with at least 10 years of experience in road construction works, including 8
years in developing countries, preferably in Africa.
C) Two (2) SURVEYORS (each 30 months): Qualified surveyors with at
least 10 years of professional experience in surveying work, capable of
verifying the contractors' quantities in their statements of work and overall
making any necessary quantity corrections, and with 8 years of experience in
developing countries, preferably in Africa.
D) Two (2) GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERS (each 28 months): Qualified
geotechnical engineers with at least 12 years of professional experience, out
of which 8 years in developing countries, preferably in Africa, in the field
of roadworks and geotechnical engineering, and capable of checking the quality
and placing of building materials.



- 67 -
Annex 4.1
Page 5 of 5
E) LOCAL PERSONNEL TO BE TRAINED: For the purpose of training local
personnel the consulting company will cooperate closely with BUNEP and engage
a surveyor and a geotechnical engineer from them for a total of up to 60 man-
months.
3.3       The consulting company will put at the disposal of the above
personnel all work, equipment, and  material inputs for their work. The
contractor(s) will provide six furnished houses for the consulting company. The
contractor(s) will also be responsible for the upkeep of these houses. The
contractor(s) will pay for the accommodation of the consulting company during
the time the accommodation to be provided by him/them is not ready.
3.4       The contractor(s) will provide six furnished offices including a
meeting room for the consulting company at the roadwork site. The contractor
will also be responsible for the upkeep of these offices. Overall, the
contractor(s) to whom the contract(s) islare awarded will be responsible for
and assume the costs of the upkeep and the water and electricity supply of
the above buildings.
3.5       The  surveying  equipment  necessary  for  the  supervision  of
construction works will be provided by the consulting company. It will remain
at the disposal of the Administration after the end of the mission. A fully
equipped laboratory for the testing of construction materials and works will
be provided by the contractor(s) in accordance with the requirements of the
consulting company.
3.6       Seven 4WD vehicles to be used exclusively by the members of the
consulting team will be provided by the consulting company. It is pointed out
that the team's vehicles must at any time be in good working order. The
consulting company will also be responsible for the operating, maintenance and
repair costs of these vehicles. The vehicles will remain at the disposal of
the Administration after termination of the consulting comany's supervision
mission.



- 68 -
Annex 4.2
Page 1 of 8
Professional Training Program as part of the Transport Sector Project Rwanda
------------------------------------------------------------
The following program describes the proposed professional training
component during the project period from i991 to 1994. The following five
areas would be covered:
1.   Civil engineering, especially road maintenance management
including bridge construction and maintenance;
2.    Data processing on personal computers;
3.    Administrative development and management;
4.   Personnel development and management; and
5.    Management and maintenance of public works equipment.
A total of 120 man-months for international training experts would
be made available and the following personnel is proposed:
1.   Team Leader and Trainer for Equipment and Workshop Management for
48 man-months;
2.   Trainer for Civil Engineering for 24 man-months;
3.    Trainer for Data Processing for 48 man-months;
1.        Trainina in Civil Engineering
1.1       Technical training of site supervisors
This training course would be intended for permanent employees of
DPC who dispose already of a basic training and experience background but
who lack experience in the supervision of road maintenance works. The
program would cover a broad overview of road maintenance works, information
on and management of roadwork sites, usage of drawings, maintenance of
surfaced and unsurfaced roads, maintenance planning, taking of site
measurements, site preparation, use of reinforced concrete, and principles
of bridges and culverts.
Duration of the program 12-13 months.
1.2       Training of works foremen
This course would train workers with experience in road
construction and maintenance who appear qualified for the supervision (as
capita) of road maintenance gangs (cantonnage). The program would cover an
overview of road maintenance works as well as teach the techniques of work
planning, scheduling, and supervision at teh capita level. It would treat



- 69 -
Annex 4.2
Page 2 of 8
road construction and maintenance techniques, both labor- and equipment-
based, material supply and quality control, equipment maintenance, and
supervision and control of works. This training would be provided to groups
of eight participants. It would be of a practical kind and cover a 7 months
period.
1.3 Training of analytical cost accountants
Primary objective of the course would be to give the analytical cost
accountants an introduction to road maintenance works (not as regards
practical execution of works but regarding the different operations
involved). This training would be provided for up to eight analytical cost
accountants who would become part of the road maintenance group. The program
would cover: Basic technical concepts, site equipment, transport vehicles,
site management, analysis of data sheets currently in use, work of road
maintenance gangs, individual road maintenance operations.
1.4 Further training of senior staff
This training would consist of short-term programs of 1 week duration
covering specific topics. It would be intended for    maintenance and
administrative staff of DPC. The topics of the programs would be chosen
jointly by the participants and could, for instance, cover the following
areas: individual road maintenance operations, surfaced roads and the use of
mixes and surface dressings, typical Rwandese bridges. Four seminars of this
kind would be organized per year.
1.5 Training of Trainers
To ensure the sustainability of the training measures at the Professional
Training Center it would be desirable to train a team of trainers. In civil
engineering two persons would be sufficient for this purpose. It would
complete their training as instructors acquired from the ORT trainers. The
program would cover the following fields: Information systems, preparing a
teaching season, preparing course material (text-books) and teaching aids,
checking the acquired knowledge.
2. Data Processing on Personal Computers
----------------------------------------
2.1       The basic training would comprise operating systems and
hardware, word processirtg software and calculation programs, as well as data
base programs. This would be followed by training in specific software used
in the different departments such as for wages, for personnel mamagement,
for spare parts inventory, etc.
Finally, there would be training in the practical use of data processing in
the departments for which it is suitable, e.g.:
- Financial management for road construction/maintenance
sites;



- 70 -
Annex 4.2
Page 3 of 8
- Planning, Programming, budgeting, and scheduling of road
construction and maintenance works;
- Management of construction and maintenance equipment and
vehicle.
2.2 Development efforts would relate to:
- studying and analyzing possible fields where data
processing should be developed;
- identifying the hardware and software requirements in
these fields;
- assisting in setting up appropriate systems;
- training the users and follow-up;
- assisting with the training in key areas.
2.3 Implementing the program:
Due to the diversity of the fields suggested above a team of several persons
would be required and the active cooperation of the personnel in charge
would be necessary. It would be desirable to form a group of counterpart
trainers specialized in specific areas. These counterpart trainers could
then hold the elementary courses under the person responsible for data
processing who would coordinate the whole program. Additional equipment
would have to be provided for these trainers. The person in charge of data
processing would be responsible for the above development program and for
coordinating the basic training.
3. Administrative Development and Management
--------------------------------------------
3.1 The current phase of basic administrative development and management
training will end in January 1990. By that tiue, the following staff will
have been trained:
- Storekeepers,
- Typists;
- Accountants, and
- Analytical cost accountants.
These training measures have produced very good, serious and competent staff
members. With their assistance it will in the near future be possible to
achieve higher standards in DPC's administrative work.
3.2 The following needs which were either pointed out by the authorities or
emerged during preceding training measures currently exist in the field of
administrative development and management:
- sensibilization to the need for control and evaluation of costs   in the
production departments;
- provision of assistance to the accounting department,
particularly to the analytical cost analysis section, regarding   the
calculation of their costs;
- addition of competent personnel to the accounting staff of
the production departments;



- 71 -
Annex 4.2
Page 4 of 8
- improvement in the knowledge and handling of
administrative procedures and techniques.
3.3 The objectives of this program would be:
- to provide DPC with competent and reliable personnel in the
following fields:
- general accounting
- analytical cost accounting
- secretarial work.
- to ensure that the departments using these services
are supplied with reliable administrative and
information and analytical cost data.
3.4 The following training approach and methodology is proposed:
Accounting: Undeir the supervision of the trainer the personnel already
trained or just being trained would assist the production departments with
general and analytical cost accounting at the roadwork sites and in the
stores and workshops. If necessary, additional training could be provided
when the need for such training becomes apparent in the departments or when
new personnel is engaged. Simultaneously, the personnel in charge on
roadwork sites, stores, and workshops will be made aware of the need for
control and analytical cost accounting.
3.5 Secretarial work: Additional training in secretarial skills
(organization, filing, ...) and French for the best typists already trained
is proposed to enable them to become real executive secretaries. This would
include a follow-up in the departments using these services. Additional
training in typing for any new staff would also be necessary.
3.6 Other areas:
- further training in Fren:h, all levels, to be geared
towards the requirements expressed by the staff;
- introduction to English for the staff either having to
work in English or to deal with documents written in
English;
- training in the use of a keyboard for the staff who will have to use
data processing.



- 72 -
Annex 4.2
Page 5 of 8
3.7 The following procedures and organization are proposed for
accounting: Analytical cost accounting would be handled by the expatriate
trainer assisted by a Rwandese counterpart who would be designated by DPC
and might well be a staff member currently being trained in analytical cost
accounting. The training would include the sensibilization to control and
analytical cost accounting, follow-up in the production departments, at the
roadwork sites and in the workshops with the support of the personnel
already trained, possibly additional training. General accounting in the
departments could be handled - under the supervision of the expatriate
trainer - by a staff member already trained or just undergoing training. The
same applies to any additional training or any new staff to be trained.
3.8 Secretarial work: Training in secretarial skills would be handled by a
professional secretary with several yerars of experience as a director's
secretary to enable the training to be folowed up in the departments.
Supervision would be executed by the expatriate trainer. The additional
training in typing could be provided by the present counterpart for typing.
3.9 Other areas: The training in the French language would definitely be
handled by a native French teacher. A French volunteer from the civil
service could be used for this purpose. As regards English language teaching
instructors from the US Embassy could be approached. The present counterpart
for typing could introduce the staff concerned to the use of the keyboard.
4. Personnel Development and Management
4.1 This would include: Organizing and modernizing the Personnel
Department, i.e.:
- Reorganizing work flow and proceduresto achieve greater
efficiency regarding distribution of tasks, definition of procedures,
administrative channels, etc.;
- renewing part of office furniture and purchasing office hardware;
- updating each individual file and reorganizing filing systems and
archives.
4.2 Computerizing the Personnel Department:
- preparing the wages for the daily laborers;
- coding the data sheets of the daily laborers and
feeding the data into the computer;
- planning and setting up a job rating system;
- keeping salary records and other files;
- intensifying the use of word processing and training
all the typists of the department;
- developing systems on LOTUS calculation program for:
- processing of social security data;
- management of daily personnel;
- integration of administrative tasks
(registering incoming mail, keeping registers);



- 73 -
Annex 4.2
Page 6 of 8
- acquisition of software for personnel resources management
permitting all aspects of the field to be monitored and planned, i.e.:
- absenteeism and leave,
- career management and continuous training.
4.3 Training the specialists of the department in personnel management a.4d
providing further training for the senior personnel in the fields of human
relations, management and communication techniques as well as labour law.
Forming study groups in the fields of hygiene and safety (production
personnel). Training groups of employees in human relations.
5. Management and Maintenance of Construction Equipment
5.1 The following areas would be dealt with:
Organization of workshops: The central workshop and the satellite workshops
would be responsible for equipment management and maintenance, and for the
procurement and inventory control of spare parts, lubricants, and supplies.
As regards the activities of the workshops, it would be necessary to divide
the personnel into different repair teams (machinery, heavy vehicles, light
vehicles, overhauling of main parts, electricity, general mechanics, etc.)
and to put competent Rwandese foremen in charge of these teams. To obtain
maximum workshop efficiency, the profitability concept would have to be
introduced. To this end, a management system along private enterprise lines
would have to be started. By setting up an analytical cost accounting system
for equipment repairs and reconditioning of equipment it would be possible
to continuously monitor the output of the workshops and the actual cost of
using equipment and vehicles.
5.2 Spare parts depot: The spare parts depot would handle the
administrative part of the ordera. The technical part (determining
requirements, establishing lists of inventoried spare parts necessary for
reconditioning, making out stock orders, etc.) would only be dealt with by
the senior technical workshop personnel. It is out of the question that
store personnel would make orders for spare parts on their own. Too many
mistakes would be made and the responsibility for workshop efficiency would
be unevenly distributed. In this way, a large part of the old equipment
which has been out of order for a long time would again become operational.
5.3 Management of vehicles and equipment: Equipment and vehicles have to be
managed on the basis of rational criteria of utilization. The personnel
responsible has to be able at any time, based on complete and constantly
updated records, to report on the location and condition of each vehicle and
piece of equipment. With proper equipment and vehicle management, it would
be possible to determine the state of repair of equipment and vehicles, and
to plan large-scale repairstoverhauling or the replacement of equipment or
vehicles to be discarded. The personnel responsible for vehicles and
equipment should also participate in driver/operator management.



- 74 -
Annex 4.2
Page 7 of 8
5.4 The technical training would encompass workshop personnel: To achieve a
rapid improvement in workshop efficiency, training of the senior workshop
personnel would be necessary. Once these would have been re-tained, they
could in turn retain the personnel under them. The training would mainly be
of a practical kind, geared towards actual requirements of the workshops.
The re-training of the sub-ordinate personnel (mechanics, electricians,
welders, storekeepers, etc.) would be in the form of on-the-job training to
ensure that the operation of the workshops would not be interrupted.
5.5 Personnel using equipment and vehicles: In this field re-training and
further training would be provided for the personnel already employed. To
achieve rapid improvement, the trainer concerned should set up a training
unit along the lines of a driving school with national instructors for the
different specializations: machinery, heavy equipment, light vehicles, etc.
Re-training and further training should cover the following areas: optimal
equipment usage, vehicle driving, highway code, safety, maintenance of
equipment, efficiency of the works carried out, etc. Instruction in these
subjects should be both theoretical and practical. For the theoretical
instruction, a room with modern teaching aids (demonstration models,
illuminated diagrams, video, simulator, etc.) should be set up; two heavy
trucks and two light trucks should be fitted with dual controls for
practicing driving (driver training).
5.6 Once the training unit has started to operate it could be run by
national instructors. The main aim of the technical training should be to
motivate all personnel for their tasks and responsibilities in the upkeep of
the equipment and vehicles of DPC - equipment and vehicles forming part of
Rwanda's national assets. Output and efficiency of the central workshop
would meet the expectations of DPC management.
5.7  Technical advice on training and on the management of the central
workshopt This activity should be directly integrated into the central
workshop and should not take the form of "passive advisors". For this
component the following personnel should initially be available:
- one mechanical engineer with experience in the management
of public works equipment and vehicles, and in the
management of a large repair center;
- one technician for heavy machinery, heavy trucks, general
mechanics, welding and motorcar electrics;
- one trainer for operatorsidrivers of equipment and heavy
trucks.
5.8 Advice on and development of analytical cost analysis systems by data
processing and administrative training teams in the following fields:
- vehicles (light vehicles and heavy equipment)
- the work carried out by the workshops
- stores (stock)
- orders
- distribution of spare parts.



- 75 -
Annex 4.2
Page 8 oe 8
This measure would include the development of systems, the computerization
of these systems and the training of staff intended to use the systems.
Subsequently, once the departments would have been reorganized and would
operate satisfactorily, this technical advice component could be reduced to
two experts.



- 76 -
Table      Professional Training Program
Transport Sector Project Rwanda (1991-1994)
-------------------------------------------
Training Fieldl                  Duration        No. of Participants
Training Element               in months    1991 1992 1993 1994 Total
----------------------------------------------------------------
1. Civil Engineering
____________________
Site and Work Supervisors           13         10          10           20
Foremen                              7               12           13   25
Analytical Cost Accountants          3          4    4                  8
Senior Personnel                     1         12   12      12   12   48
Training of Trainers               24            1            1         2
----------------------------------------------------------------
Subtotal                                       27   28      23   25 103
----------------------------------------------------------------
2. Data Processing
Financial Management on Sites  6                2       2    2    2  8
Planning of Works                    6          2       2    2    2  8
Equipment/Vehicle Management  12                 1      1    1    1  4
Workshop Management                 12           1      1    1    1  4
Spare Parts Management              6           2       2    2    2  8
Road Management Group                6          2       2    2    2  8
Laboratory Personnel                 6          2       2    2    2  8
Personnel Management                 6          2       2    2     2  8
Secretarial Staff                    1         12     12   12   12  48
Training of Trainers               24            1            1         2
--_.-------------------------------------------------------------
Subtotal                                       27     26   27   26  106
----------------------------------------------------------------
3. Administration
_________________
General Accounting                 24                   13              13
Analytical Cost Accounting          24                  12               12
Secretarial Staff                   8            10     10              20
Training of Trainers                12            1      1               2
French and English Courses          12           10     10   10   10  40
----------------------------------------------------------------
Subtotal                                        21      46   10   10  87
----------------------------------------------------------------
4a. Personnel - Personnel
Department
Perso___el_Manager__24_2_2
Personnel Manager                    24           2                     2
Personnel Paying Wages               24           2                     2
Wage Accountants                     24           2                     2
Social Security Accountant           24           2                     2
Career Manager                       24           2                     2



- 77 
4b. Personnel - Human Relations
_________________________
Site Supervisors                24         20                   20
Assistant Supervisors DPC       24          6                   6
Foremen                         24         20                   20
----------------------------------------------------------------
Subtotal                                   56                  56
_______________________________-                           -___   5.
Management and Maintenance
of Equipment and Vehicles
_____________________________
Workshop Managers               24               2               2
Foremen                         24              10              10
Store Managers (Stock)          12          1                    1
Fleet Manager                   24               2               2
Mechanics - Motorcars           12         20                   20
- Heavy Trucks        12        20                   20
- Heavy Equipment    12              10         10   20
Site Mechanics                  12                   20   20   40
Assistant Mechanics             12         10   10   10   10   AO
General Mechanics               12          2    2    2         6
Sheet-Iron Workers-Welders      12               2    2    2   6
Motorcar Electricians           12          2         2         4
Storekeepers                    12          3    3              6
Assistant Storekeepers           6          3    3              6
Workshop Secretaries-Word Proc.12           2                   2
-Data Proc.12          3    3             6
Data Processing Operators       12          3                   3
Multi-Purpose Equipment Operat. 5          10                   10
Loader Operators                 5         10                   10
Grader Operators                 5              10              10
Bulldozer Operators              5         10                   10
Pullscoop Operators              5              10              10
Light Vehicle Drivers            3         30   30              60
Heavy Truck Drivers              3         30   30              60
Low Loading Vehicle Drivers      3          5                   5
Training of Trainers            12          4    4              8
----------------------------------------------------------------
Subtotal                                  168  131    36  42 377
Total-----------299--------231--------96------103-------729-----
Total                                     299  231    96 103 729
----------------------------------------------------------------



- 78 -
Annex 4.3
Page 1 of 3
RWANDA
Transport Sector Proiect
PROGRESS REPORTING REOUIREMENTS
Project Progress Reports
1.        The Borrower will prepare quarterly and annual progress reports
to be submitted to the Association. The quarterly report will be submitted
not later than one month after the end of the period and the annual report
three months after the end of the year.
2.        The progress reports shall contain the information described below:
(a) the physical progress accomplished to the date of report and during
the reporting period including:
(i)  volume of works completed and volume to be programmed for the
following quarter with their precise location (both force
account and under contract, to be shown separately):
-maintenance of paved road (km)
-regravelling (km and average thickness)
-local improvements/earth works/ditch cleaning (m3)
-grading (km)
-manual maintenance (km)
-manual maintenance (m3 of select material)
-maintenance)reconstruction of culverts (number)
-bridge maintenance (number)
-maintenance/reconstruction of pipes (meters)
(ii) for each of the operations above under (i), percentage
achieved in relation to the program established for the
previous quarter
(iii)inputs required to execute the works by force account under
(i) and to be programmed for the following quarter for each
brigade or service:
-labor (by qualification)
-equipment (well identified, hours worked for equipment and
km operateJ for heavy and light vehicles)
-fuel (litres)
-lubricant (litres)
-spare parts (in FRW)
-construction materials (suitable units)



- 79 -
Annex 4.3
Page 2 of 3
(iv) efficiency indicators such as availability rates for the
equipment fleet and utilization rates for the different
categories of equipment.   The combination of input and
(production) output indicators will also provide measures of
productivity and unit costs, in particular concerning the
consumption of fuel and lubricants per hour of operation for
equipment or km of distance for heavy and light vehicles.
(v)  workshop activity indicators and supplies of spare parts, as
well as labor provided by workshops and service centers,
length of overhauls, cumulated length of breakdowns since
beginning of the current year and use of spare parts per
equipment unit (in FRW);
(vi) training indicators and human resource management, such as the
number and level of trainees which have achieved a training
session during the quarter, proposals for changes in
assignment as a result, feed-back from questionning the
satisfaction of services from trainees which have received
training in earlier quarters, description of the training
sessions and seminars which have taken place during the
quarter and which are planned for the following quarter
(including the number of trainees concerned);
(vii)other key information which is not provided by the
quantitative indicators;
(b) progress on procurement of goods, materials, equipment and services
(status  of  procedure,  contracts,  implementation  rates  of
contracts);
(c) progress on procurement of civil works (number of contracts,
amounts, rate of completion, payments);
(d) actual or expected deviations from the implementation schedule;
with explanations and descriptions of corrective measures taken or
being prepared;
(e)  information on difficulties encountered and unforeseen events which
have a bearing on the implementation of the program;
(f) expected changes in the completion date of the project;
(g) information on key staff changes in DGR, consultants or
contractors;
(h) financial information on the execution of the budget, the Road Fund
and on budget revisions;



- 80 -
Annex 4.3
Page 3 of 3
(i) financial information on each project component indicating the
original estimated cost, the revised cost if appropriate, the
actual expenditure, the planned expenditures, and the actual and
planned withdrawals from the Credit Account; and,
(j) status of action on each covenant of the Credit Agreement.
Prolect Completion Report
3.        The Borrower will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) to be
submitted to the Association not later than six months after the closing
date.
4.        This PCR should:
(a) review all the objectives and all the conditions of the Borrower
and IDA and for each one of these, evaluate the extent to which
they have adhered to;
(b) evaluate the overall degree of satisfaction of the Borrower based
on the difference between objectives and results; and
(c) provide comments concerning certain actions which could have
improved the level of outcome of the project.
5.        The PCR should also include, for elements of the project for which
an objective has been established, a final estimate of the results and an
nalysis of the physical and economic differences compared to the original
project.



- 81 -
Annex 4.4
Page 1 of 2
RWANDA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Environmental Evaluation
1.       A limited environmental impact study has been carried out in early
1990 to review the impact of the improvement and paving of the road
Gitarama-Kibuye. The major categories of impact reviewed were as follows:
(i) increased erosion; (ii) reduced availability of agricultural land;
(iii) changes in hydrology of the area; (iv) impact on tree cover and
landscape; and (v) safety and human health. An assessment of the level of
impact and its duration (long term - short term) was also made.
2.       It is clear from this assessment that the excavation and deposit
of excess material during construction represents the major impact on
erosion, agricultural land, tree cover and hydrology, with long term
traffic growth the most important factor for protection of landscape and
safety aspects. Prior to construction a number of measures are needed to
reduce the adverse effects indicated.
3.       The main conclusions of the review were the following:
(a) a substantial volume of excess material from the road
reconstruction will be deposited in selected areas, their location
would need to be more accurate, and specified clearly in the
bidding documents;
(b) due to the widening of the road, some expropriation of land
is unavoidable. A special survey of any dwellings or families
that would have to be relocated is needed. Such a survey has been
started and would lead to a relocation plan;
(c) road safety for the residents of the area could be adversely
affected by higher speeds on the improved road. Special measures
for educating the affected residents are proposed; and
(d) tourism will develop further in the Kibuye area as a result of
improved road conditions. A special study of tourism development
for this area has been proposed under Swiss financing.
4.       A number of specific measures are needed, the most important one,
the preparation of a resettlement plan for any families, which would need
to be relocated as a result of their loss of agricultural land. In order to
do this steps such as the following will be required; (i) actual siting and
mapping of quarries, borrow pits and fill deposit areas; (ii) actual
demarcation and measurement of land used in road widening; (iII)
identification of land owners and a socio-economic census of the affected
population; (iv) preparation of a compensation and, if necessary a
resettlement plan; and (v) determination of the overall cost of the plan
prior to final request for bids. Submission of a satisfactory resettlement
plan would be a condition of disbursement for this road component.



- 82 -
Annex 4.4
Page 2 of 2
5.       Some other specific points would be implemented by MINITRAPE as
part of project execution, and included as appropriate in bid
documentation:
(a) Excess material would not be deposited in any location where
it would affect the visual or physical character of the following areas
with important tourism potential: Ndaba rock and waterfall, Lake Kivu and
surrounding shore line.
(b) Rural roads leading from the improved highway to the forest of
Mukura would not be improved under the project.
(c) Arrangements for the deposit of excess material during
construction should ensure that unprotected fill is not exposed to heavy
rainfall before erosion protection measures are in place.
(d) The number of trees planted under the project would at least
equal the number of trees cut down.
(e) Special attention will be paid to the vegetation of side
slopes and revegetation of borrow pits, temporary roads, and fill deposits
in order to reduce the potential for accelerated erosion.
(f) Provision would be made for monitoring of the environmental
impacts of road construction by a national team of experts.
(g) MINITRAPE would ensure interministerial coordination
concerning health, traffic safety, agriculture, resettlement and tourism
aspects of the project.



- 83 -
RWANDA                     Annex 5. 1
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs
FRW per vehicle-km net of taxes
Vehicle type                Paved Road                  Earth Road
Road condition       Good      Medium   Poor     Good      Medium   Poor
Car                     24      26.1     33.8     31.4      34.5     41.4
Pick-up truck,
minibus             46.8      50.6     64.9     59.6        66     78.2
Light truck           54.2        57     67.4     65.5      70.1     83.1
Heavy truck           131.1    140.4    174.9       167    184.5    232.8
Semi-trailer         189.4       204    258.9    243.8    272.1    346.9
Bus                  124.7    133.6    166.3        160      194    261.3



- 84 -
AARoN 5.2
RWANOA
TRANSPORT sIcr:R PqO4gCT
Ona,;I of leGtihway r,ftab; I itao;Al
PRW mio; om
Costo    ge,ef to    met
1m2       322         0     -322
L9ot      663         O      -443
14        009       156      -634
1966      71.S      326      -307
1low      858       346     -510
1"?       358       349       1I
1906      -28       391       416
199       -20       414       442
2096      -28       439       447
201       -20       406       493
22        -28       493       521
203       -28       523       551
2084      -20       554       ot2
29"6      -28      5so        GIs
2606      -20       823       $0O
2?        -28       6of      s8e
206       -28       700       727
2908               1741      1741
ERR        is
Note: -20
r*epresnts
tedscti on
in maintenance
ouR"R



- 85 -
RWANDA                                Annex 5.3
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Maintenance Program
FRW millions
Paved roads - above 900 veh/day       Earth roads - above 100 veh/day
Costs    Benefits      Net            Costs    Benefits      Net
1991     1115              -1115      1991      772         0     -772
1992                 55       55      1992                568      568
1993               1129     1129      1993                330      330
1994               2208     2208      1994               1464     1464
1995               2078     2078      1995               1552     1552
ERR           0.8 70.33680            ERR            0.8 84.48375
Paved roads - 200-900 veh/day         Earth roads - less than 100 veh/day
Costs    Benefits      Net            Costs    Benefits      Net
1991      311               -311      1991       98                 -98
1992                121      121      1992       25                -25
1993                170      170      1993                 51        51
1994                223      223      1994                143       143
1995                255      255      1995                226      226
ERR           0.8 41.83107            ERR            0.8 47.83458
Paved roads - less than 200 veh/day            Total program for main
road maintenance
Costs    Benefits      Net
1991        9                 -9               1991    -2305
1992       11                -11               1992       708
1993       10                -10               1993      1670
1994        1                 -1               1994      4037
1995                 17       17               1995      4128
1996                 17       17               1996        17
1997                 17       17               1997        17
ERR            0.2 13.58880                0.8 70.20284
Source: Minitrape - Road Maintenance Program 1991-1994



- 86 -
RWANDA                               Annex 5.4
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Evaluaticn of Communal Roads
Estimate for a typical road in hilly terrain
Assumptions:
Road length 14.7 km
Daily traffic 4.5 tons by pick-up (3 x 1.5 tons)
1.50 tons by head-load
Transport costs: Pick-up truck poor road 78.2 FRW/vehkm - 57.3 FRW/tonkm
good road 59.6 FRW/vehkm = 43.7 FRW/tonkm
Head-load (20 kg per day over 14.7 km at FRW 100/day)
340.1 FRW/tonkm
Benefits:                                               FRW per year
4.5 tons x 365 days x 14.7 km (57.3-43.7)         328,368
1.5 tons x 365 days x 14.7 km (340.1-43.7)    2,385,501
2,713,869
traffic growth the first year 10%, thereafter 5% per year
Costs    Benefits    Net
FRW millions
1991      17.64             -17.64
1992       0.35     2.99      2.64
1993       0.35      3.14     2.79
1994       0.35      3.30     2.95
1995       0.35      3.46     3.11
1996       0.35      3.63     3.28
1997       0.35      3.82     3.47
1998       0.35      4.01     3.66
1999       0.35     4.21      3.86
2000       0.35      4.42     4.07
2001       0.35      4.64     4.29
0.20 ERR          12.87 %



- 87 -
RWANDA            Annex 5. 5
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests
Project           Best       Benefits Costs    Benefits -101
component         estimate    -201      +20S    Costs +10l
Periodic                  70        56       59       58  X
maintenance
Communal roads             13       10       11       10
Giterama-Kibuye           13        10       11       10
Overall road project      45        33       35       34
'S '4   4S    -4*



- 88 -
Annex 6. 1
RWANDA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. SOMEA - Etude Economique de la Route Gitarama-Kibuye, 1987
2. Rhein-Ruhr - Detailed engineering study for the
Gitarama-Kibuye road (several volumes 1988)
3. BUNEP - Etude des Routes Communales (1988 and 1989)
4. MINITRANSCO - Les Transports Internationaux au Rwanda
Evolution et Perspectives, 1988
5. MINITRANSCO - Les Transports Interieurs de Voyageure at de
Marchandises, 1988
6. MINITRAPE - Etude du Premier Projet Transport, Volet
d Entretien des Routes, 1989
7. OACIIPNUD - Etude sur le Devoloppeuent du Transport Aerien
au Rwanda, 1989
8. World Bank - The Great Lakes Corridor Study, 1988



[1111  18        
ii flI1
11|  ~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0 |   I X1BM 3   - 68 -~ ~ ~ ~



- 90 -
RWANDA                      CHART 2
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT             Page 1 of 2
Project Implementation Schedule
Year                    1990      1991     1992     1993      1994     1995      1996
Quarter               1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4
MAIN ACTIVITIES
Board presentation      x
Sign Credit Agreement  x
Credit effectiveness        x
TRANSPORT COMPONENT
Lake transport improvements
Site select. & engineering -
Prepare bid docs.                      --
Bidding (LCB)
Execution of works                           -- ---------
Vehicle inspection & safety
Site select. & engineering  --------
Prepare bid docs.                      --
Bidding (ICB for equipment)              --
Bidding (LCB for works)                  --
Bid eval. & award                          --
Execution of works                          ------------
Supplies
ROAD COMPONENT
Gitarama-Kibuye road
Construction supervision
Proposals               --
Evaluation & award        --
Supervision                  ---------------------------------
Road construction
Prepare bid deco.
Bidding (ICB)          --
Bid eval. & award        ---
Execution of works           --------------------------------          -



- 91 -
CHART 2
Page 2 of 2
Year                    1990      1991     1992      1993     1994      1995     1996
Quarter               1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4
Road maintenance program
Equipm. materials & supplies
Prepare bid docs.            --        --
Bidding (ICB/LCB)               --       --
Bid eval. & award                 --       --
Supplies
Periodic & routine maint.
Work plan. & sched.          --        --        --       --
Execution & supervision      ------
Communal roads pilot project
Equipm. materials & supplies
Prepare bid docs.            --
Bidding (ICB/LCB)              __
Bid eval. & award                 --
Supplies
Maintenance support structure
Project monitoring unit      ------------- ---- -- -------
Maintenance cells             ------------------------  --------
Road rehab. by SME
Site selection & engineering    --
Prepare bid docs.                   --
Bidding (LCB)                          --
Bid eval. & award                        --
Execution of works                         ----------------------
Road maint. by force account
Work plan. & sched.               ----      ---
Execution & supervision                --------------------------
Technical assistance
Road maintenance program
Proposals               --
Evaluat. & award          --
Services                     ------------------_---________
Manpower development & training
Proposals               --
Evaluat. & award          --
Services                      ----------------------------------
Communal roads pilot project
Proposals              --
Evaluat. & award         --
Services                     -----------------------------------



/                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 211 9
/ |   {               U  G  A  N  D   A Id                                   rWebys                                                GREAT LAKES REGION
KAMPA                          ~~~~~Etdorgt                      I NTERNATIONAL  SURFACE  TRANSPORT
A /   ~/ ;  >8usio                t                                             CONNECTIONS:1 991
Payed roads
rrNak <   --   ~.   Eu   u                  U -- npao edt   oods
E                           /ortoh                                               <   W ng                                                         Roilways
 g ikK   XE    N  Y    A           -----Lake navigation
Nugomo                                                                                                                              Notionial capitals
0   cit  oa towns
~ V   Rut huru   t}       kitumnba     53Bukobo              f                 <>eberf kz                          Llmorr><                           ---nternhational 6oundories
ZAIRE~~~~~Ru                                                                                    uNARB
t  orrst  atu  8   |        t        Multomo,z,t            s                               t4t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Machokos
T itw OP IA                   F                     har  Io
A~E.BU  ,hDi CAN  .r
SAt I__ _ _,p._iT A N Z                                      A                                             N                                         |MI A                    I )ttno
,-.ti   T  haANZ1ANiA
ANGOL \   S      Utm D,,a, ^ N.. IN*8~5 ., __A* iw InM                                                                                                    A
barNMNu. t                                                                       4   flu.   i  tT
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ao AgGrr                                                                  N              A .S                  A
.At |  =,  , TANZANIA-5   _   *.\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AZIA
ZNO A i USAIW   >' '3'*                                  -pX o u             -- n                                                                                                                             4r0ow r w A r a r
CHAD,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  j                                                                                          roocro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cossls
Af-'t 'I  EA  V  E CAN>                                                                                                                                                                                                         O T  E918



RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 21834R
2E-.I0                                       2900                                          2930'                                         30'00'                                         3030
RWANDA                                                                                                                                                                                      /        0-----
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS                                                                               /
;                      UGANDA                                     .1w'
PROJECT AREAS                                                                                                                                    '
ZONfS DU PROJET                                                          T. RQhh.                                                             /A
PROJECF POAD                                                                                                              T. 00b
CLh I~                                                                                                                              (NPOBROOT
i ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~     _   MAIN ROADS                                                                           *                                                                                        I
ROUTES PRINCIPAIES                                                                                                                                                                     T A N Z A N I A
COURS 0 EAU                                                                         l                                      *L                                      AKAGERA
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES
LIMITES CE COMMUNE                                                                                   .\
SUB-PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL                 I
1 3O                                            LM, TES OE SOUS-PREFECTURE                                                                    .                                                                                                                      30 -
35                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                               7l`                                                                                                    PARK
LIMITES DE PREFECTURE
INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
|                                                                     2      (         GlsHwA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POETr  >,    <RSf' IX S          >             
ZAIREF                /OEST
Z A I R E                                                                           ,_,                    2 rez                                                    :        s S/2
2'r0                                                                                    2\00 -
-4 28:88  t  r5AFUjIZO  g            <   MLahubi          <          \                                                                                                             . . \ N  1* \ J g(
28303
(UGANDA /C  o
DA  0     __. 1KENYA     .   -2230 -
1-              N                                                       .Ao EPoe  >f8DEE  FORESTi 
R\NAN~
\1 RIJUNDI              -/
TANZANIA                                     I-".-
ZAIRE                                                                                                                                                                    B U R U N  D I/
KILOMERS                                                             t
__                                                                                                              RB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      101is20250s4o55
ZAMBIA  I ~
3   >  \ ~  x,-1                                                                    S                                                                             \ MOZAMBIQUE  k  \  5- \ > s lo    105  20  25    30
LAr .   _                                                                                                                                                                      "L56-  \  \  (  MIES                       -
0'~       63D"- ,N                    40'3                             2.00        ;     To B,j.,oro                  29.30'       To Bwoo.blro           F  g       300R'                                         3030'
APRIL 1990



