Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2136 RW
 Development Credit Agreement
 (Transport Sector Project)
 between
 THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 31, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2136 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
         AGREEMENT, dated August 31, 1990, between the RWANDESE
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
         WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated April
30, l990, from the Borrower describing a program of policies, goals
and actions designed to reform the Borrower's transport sector (the
Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of
the Program;
         (B)      the Borrower intends to contract from the Fonds European
de Developpement (FED) a grant (the FED Grant) in an amount
equivalent to $32,600,000 to assist in financing Part A of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
FED Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
FED;
         (C)      the Borrower intends to contract from Government of the
Swiss Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable contribution
(the Swiss Contribution) in an amount of SwF 15,000,000 to assist in
financing Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the Swiss Contribution Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and Switzerland;
         (D)      Switzerland has appointed the Association to administer
the Swiss Contribution in accordance with the provisions of a
Procedural Arrangement, dated April 9, 1987 (the Arrangement),
between Switzerland and the Association, the Association has
Page  2
accepted such appointment and the Association shall administer the
Swiss Contribution in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement;
         (E)      the Borrower has contracted from the OPEC Fund for
International Development (OPEC) a loan (the OPEC Loan) in an amount
of $4,000,000 to assist in financing Part A of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the OPEC Loan
Agreement) dated February 23, 1990 between the Borrower and the
OPEC;
         (F)      the Borrower has contracted from the Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau, an agency of the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW), a
grant (the KfW Grant) in an amount of 11,000,000 deutsche mark to
assist in financing Part C of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW Grant Agreement) dated
April 27, 1988 entered into between the Borrower and KfW;
         (G)      the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the fea-
sibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
         WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
         NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
         Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
         Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
         (a)      "MINITRANSCO" means Ministere du Transport et des
Communications, the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and Communi-
cations;
         (b)      "MINITRAPE" means Ministere des Travaux Publics, de
l'Energie et de l'Eau, the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works,
Power and Water;
         (c)      "Public Expenditure Program" means the program referred
to in Section 3.03 (b) (i) of this Agreement as such program may be
revised after each of the joint reviews referred to in Section 3.03
(a) of this Agreement;
         (d)      "Action Plan" means the plan of action annexed to the
letter referred to paragraph (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement
as such Plan may be revised after each of the joint reviews referred
to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
        (e)      "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
         (f)      "Swiss Contribution Account" means the account
established by Switzerland in the Banque Nationale Suisse for the
purposes of the Swiss Contribution;
         (g)      "Road Fund" means the fund established by the Borrower's
Law No. 20/1989 of September 11, 1989 to finance, inter alia, the
maintenance of the Borrower's roads; and
Page  3
         (h)      "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower
which runs concurrently with the calendar year.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
         Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty one
million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
31,100,000).
         Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the amount of
the Swiss Contribution may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
the Swiss Contribution Account, respectively, in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution.
         (b)      Except as the Association and Switzerland shall
otherwise agree, the allocation and withdrawal of the Swiss
Contribution shall be governed, mutatis mutandis, by the provisions
of the General Conditions.
         (c)      The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain a special account in dollars in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
         Section  2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
         Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of l%) per annum.
         (b)      The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement.
         (c)      The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
         Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
l%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
         Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
         Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1,
Page  4
commencing August 1, 2000 and ending February 1, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1,
2010 shall be one percent (l%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
         (b)      Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
         (c)      If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
         Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
         Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B and C of the
Project through MINITRAPE, Part D of the Project through both
MINITRAPE and MINITRANSCO, and Part E of the Project through
MINITRANSCO, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
         Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Swiss Contribution shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
         Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower, the Association and
Switzerland, if Switzerland shall so request, shall, not later than
September 30 in each year during Project implementation, starting in
1991, jointly review the progress achieved in carrying out the
Project and the Program including the Action Plan.
         (b)      the Borrower shall furnish to the Association as soon as
practicable after the joint review referred to in paragraph (a)
above, but in any event not later than November 30 in each year
before the completion of the Project, the following documentation
satisfactory to the Association: (i) a three-year rolling public
expenditure program for its transport sector for the period
commencing the following January 1 (the Public Expenditure Program);
(ii) a road maintenance work program for the next Fiscal Year,
including a description of activities of the brigades and
Page  5
contractors; and (iii) when appropriate, a revised Action Plan based
on the recommendations acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association of the joint review referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section.
         (c)      In formulating MINITRAPE's and MINITRANSCO's budgets the
Borrower shall: (i) give priority to road maintenance over new
construction; (ii) allocate every year to road maintenance, through
the Road Fund, not less than the equivalent of six million Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 6,000,000) or such other amount as shall be
agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association; and (iii) allocate
at least lO% of the Road Fund to the maintenance of its communal
roads.
         Section 3.04. The Borrower shall implement the recommendations
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association of each of the joint
reviews referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
         Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part D
of the Project, furnish to the Association not later than December
31, 1990 a manpower development and training program acceptable to
the Association for staff of MINITRAPE and MINITRANSCO.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
         Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures (including the Road Fund) in respect of the Project of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
         (b)      The Borrower shall:
                  (i)      have the records and accounts referred to in
                           paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                           the Special Accounts for each Fiscal Year
                           audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                           principles consistently applied, by independent
                           auditors acceptable to the Association;
                  (ii)     furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                           but in any case not later than six months after
                           the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                           the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                           such scope and in such detail as the Association
                           shall have reasonably requested; and
                  (iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
                           concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                           thereof as the Association shall from time to
                           time reasonably request.
         (c)      For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account were made
on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
                  (i)      maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                           with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                           accounts reflecting such expenditures;
                  (ii)     retain, until at least one year after the
                           Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                           year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                           Account or the Swiss Contribution Account was
                           made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                           bills receipts and other documents) evidencing
                           such expenditures;
                  (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
Page  6
                           examine such records; and
                  (iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are
                           included in the annual audit referred to in
                           paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                           of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                           auditors as to whether the statements of
                           expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                           together with the procedures and internal
                           controls involved in their preparation, can be
                           relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
         Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
         (a)      A situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program (including the Action Plan), or a
significant part thereof, will be carried out.
         (b)      The implementation of the Program (including the Action
Plan) or of the Public Expenditure Program shall have been suspended
or terminated or shall have materially deviated from such Program or
Public Expenditure Program as defined in this Agreement.
         (c)      (i)      Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                           (A)      the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                                    proceeds of the Swiss Contribution, the FED
                                    Grant, the KfW Grant or the OPEC Loan shall
                                    have been suspended, cancelled or
                                    terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                                    the terms of the Agreements providing
                                    therefor, or
                           (B)      the OPEC Loan shall have become due and
                                    payable prior to the agreed maturity
                                    thereof.
 ARTICLE VII
 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
         Section 7.01. The Ministere des Finances of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Condition.
         Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
         For the Borrower:
                  Ministere des Finances
                  B.P. 158 Kigali
                  Rwanda
                  Cable address:                               Telex:
                           MINIFIN-RUANDA                       22687
                                                                MINFIN-RW
         For the Association:
                  International Development Association
                  1818 H Street, N.W.
                  Washington, D.C. 20433
                  United States of America
                  Cable address:                               Telex:
Page  7
                  INDEVAS                                       197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.                              248423 (RCA)
                                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                                 82987 (FTCC)
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                                    RWANDESE REPUBLIC
                                    By /s/ Aloys Uwimana
                                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                    By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
                                                 Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                         Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.       The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the
Swiss Contribution to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                    Amount                  Amount
                    of the                  of the       
                    Credit                   Loan           % of
                   Allocated               Allocated       Expendi-
                   (Expressed              (Expressed       tures
                     in SDR                 in Dollar       to be
Category            Equivalent)             Equivalent)    Financed
(1)    Civil works:
       (a) under
         Part A of
         the Project
         to be
         financed by:
         (i) the                             7,360,000      35%
           Asso-
           ciation
         (ii) Switzer-                      15,000,000      40%
           land
       (b) for reha-       2,710,000                        90%
         bilitation
         and recon-
         struction
         under
         Part B
         of the
         Project
       (c) for routine     4,190,000                        90%
Page  8
         and periodic
         road main-
         tenance
         under Part B
         of the
         Project
       (d) under Part E                      1,010,000      90%
         of the
         Project
(2)    Equipment, spare                                     100% of
       parts, materials                                     foreign
       and supplies:                                        expendi-
                                                            tures and
       (a) under                             6,120,000      90% of
         Part C of                                          local
         the Project                                        expendi-
                                                            tures
       (b)   under                           2,090,000
         Part E of
         the Project
(3)    Consultants'                          3,720,000      100% of for-
       services and                                         eign expen-
       technical                                            ditures and
       assistance                                           90% of local
                                                            expenditures
(4)    Training                                700,000      100% of for-
       and studies                                          eign expen-
                                                            ditures and
                                                            90% of local
                                                            expenditures
(5)    Unallocated                           3,200,000
                     _________              __________
          TOTAL      3,100,000              15,000,000
                     =========              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)     the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
      (b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)    payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
      (b)    payments made under Category (l)(a) unless and until: (i)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the FED Grant
Agreement, the OPEC Loan Agreement and the Swiss Contribution
Agreement, with the exception of those relating to the right to
withdraw funds under this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and (ii)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association an expropriation and
resettlement plan satisfactory to the Association in respect of
people affected by the upgrading of the Gitarama-Kibuye Road;
      (c)    payments made under Categories (l)(d) and (2)(b) unless and
until a contract acceptable to the Association has been entered into
between the Borrower and an entity acceptable to the Association
which provides for such entity to operate the shipyard to be
Page  9
constructed under Part E.l of the Project.
      (d)    payments made under Category (l)(c) in respect of a commune
unless and until an agreement satisfactory to the Association has
been entered into between the Borrower and the administrative
authority having jurisdiction over such commune providing for the
carrying out by work groups of the routine road maintenance works
under Part B of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are, as part of the implementation
of the Program: (a) to ensure increased communal economic
development in the Borrower's territory through improvement of
roads; (b) to implement cost effective approaches to design, con-
struction, supervision and maintenance of the Borrower's road
network; (c) to protect capital investment in, and increase the
service life of, international and national roads in the Borrower's
territory; (d) to strengthen the institutions responsible for the
maintenance of the Borrower's roads; (e) to improve (i) resource
mobilization for road maintenance activities; (ii) efficiency of
road maintenance operations in particular as expressed in cost per
kilometer; and (iii) the balance between road maintenance and
construction; (f) to improve lake transport and access to the Lake
Kivu shore; and (g) to improve road safety in the Borrower's
territory.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
      Upgrading and paving of the Gitarama - Kibuye road.
Part B
      Rehabilitation, reconstruction and routine maintenance, as
appropriate, of about 600 kilometers of communal roads.
Part C
      Carrying out of a four-year national road maintenance program
including:
1.    Resurfacing of about 200 kilometers of the Borrower's paved
routes nationales d'interet international (RNI), routes nationales
d'interet national (RNN) and routes nationales d'interet communal
(RNC) and regravelling of about 1,200 kilometers of gravel national
roads.
2.    Rehabilitation, through patching, of the Borrower's entire I
paved road network and grading of about 2,600 kilometers of unPaved
roads.
3.    Labor-intensive routine maintenance of about 2,300 kilometers of
gravel roads and about 1,800 kilometers of earth roads.
4.    Routine maintenance of urban roads and of traffic signals and
markings.
5.    Periodic bridge maintenance.
6.    Acquisition of equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies,
including computer hardware and software for a pavement management
system and road data base for the purposes of Parts C.1 to C.5 of
the Project.
Part D
Page  10
      Carrying out of a manpower development and training program for
staff of MINITRAPE and MINITRANSCO and of private small- and medium-
scale road contractors.
Part E
1.    Construction of a shipyard and of additional quays at Lake Kivu.
2.    Construction of a vehicle inspection station in Kigali and
acquisition of equipment, materials and supplies including computer
hardware and software for a vehicle inspection system.
                                               *  *  *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders for works included under Parts A and E of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
Part B:      Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.l hereof, goods manufactured in Rwanda may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:      Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.l hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:      Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Routine road maintenance works under Part B of the Project shall
be done by Force Account.
2.    Rehabilitation and reconstruction works under Part B of the
Project and construction works under Part E of the Project may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bid-
ding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association, provided that works up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be sub-divided into lots of not less
than $100,000 and not more than $500,000.
3.    Equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  11
1.    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    (a)    With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use ne Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (4)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or
the Swiss Contribution allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
      (c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount
equivalent to $900,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
an amount of SwF 500,000 to be withdrawn from the Swiss Contribution
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
Page  12
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
      (b)    (i)        For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                        Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                        for deposits into the Special Account at such
                        intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)        Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                        Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                        documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                        paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                        payments in respect of which replenishment is
                        requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                        Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                        withdraw from the Credit Account or the Swiss
                        Contribution Account and deposit into the Special
                        Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                        requested and as shall have been shown by said
                        documents and other evidence to have been paid out
                        of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
      (a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the
Swiss Contribution allocated to the eligible Categories, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Swiss Con-
tribution Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
and the Swiss Contribution allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice crom the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
Page  13
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account or the Swiss Contribution Account for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of
this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
