Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7595-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
MARCH 30, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tbe performance of
their offici'at duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authozoaon



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
(as of December 31, 1988)
US$1.00 = Rp 1,700
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia                       -    April 1 - March 31
Bank Indonesia                               -    April 1 - March 31
Participating Financial Institutions          -    January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
ASKRINDO      -  PT Assuransi Kredit Indonesia (Credit Insurance Company of
Indonesia)
BAPINDO       -  Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (Development Bank of Indonesia)
BBD           -  Bank Bumi Daya
BCA           -  Bank Central Asia
BDN           -  Bank Dagang Negara
BEII          -  Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia
BI            -  Bank Indonesia
BKPM          -  Investment Coordinating Board
BANK BNI      -  Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
BPKP          -  Financial and Development Supervisory Board
BRI           -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DFI           - Development Finance Institution
EDP           -  Export Development Project
GOI           -  Government of Indonesia
GON           - GoverLment of the Netherlands
IRP           -  Industrial Restructuring Pro4ect
JGF           -  Japanese Grant Facility
KIK           - Kredit Investasi Kecil (Small Investment Credit Program)
KMXP          -  Kredit Modal Kerja Permanen (Small Permanent Working Capital
Program)
KUPEDES       -  Kredit Umum Pedesan
LPPI          -  Indonesia Banking Development Institute
MOF           - Ministry of Finance
MOI           - Ministry of Industry
MOT           - Ministry of Trade
NBFI          -  Non-Bank Financial Institution
NGO           -  Non-Government Organization
NTB           - Non-Tariff Barriers
OLA           -  On-lerding Loan Agreement
PB            -  Participating Bank
PCB           -  Private Commercial Bank
RDB           -  Regional Development Bank
RPLITU        -  Regional Project Management Unit
SCB           -  State Commercial Bank
SEDP          -  Small Enterprise Development Project
SLA           -  Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SMI           -  Small and Medium Industries
SMIE          -  Small and Medium Industrial Enterprise
SOE           -  Statement of Expenditures
TA            -  Technical Assistance
UPPINDO       - Usaha Pembiayaan Pembangunan Indonesia (Development Finance
Company of Indonesia)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents                          Page No
Loan and Proiect Sunmmary ...........                         .......... .   i
I. THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR AND AMALL AND NEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES
A. Overview          ...................................................    1
B.  The Small and Medium Industrial Enterprise Segment .........    2
C. Changes in Policy Orientation and the Small and
Medium Industrial Enterprises               .        .            4
D.  The Bank's Strategy and Role in the Industrial Sector ......    8
Il.   THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives and Description .........................   10
B. Technical Assistance to SMIEs Under the Proposed
Project                        .... .   11
C. Financial Intermediation and SMIE Investment
Under the Proposed Project .................................     18
D.  Overall Project Costs and Financing........................      25
E.  Features of the Loan           ...................   27
F.  Project Benefits and Risks .................................     32
III.   AGREEMNS REACHED AND RECOMMTION. ......                     .....   33
ANNES
1.  Technical Assistance Component Cost Table ..................   35
2.  SMIE Project Pipeline (IBRD Financed Amount) ...............   36
3. Proposed Participating Bank Performance Criteria for
Initial and Continued Eligibility ............. ..........   37
4. Formula for Calculation of Relending Rate from the
Government to Participating Banks ...........................  38
5.  Free Limit and Maximum Subloan Amounts .....................   40
6. Estimated Cumulative Disbursements of the
Proposed Loan ......................................... .....   41
7. Documents Available in the Project file ....................   42
APPENDIX 1. The Technical Assistance Component of the Small and Medium
Industrial Enterprise Project
APPENDIX 2. The Participating Banks under the Proposed Project
This report was prepared by Mr. Hugh Murphy (AS5IE), and Messrs. Edgar Su and
Gary Kilmer (Consultants) following a field appraisal of the project in
November/December 1988. Messrs. Dariush Malekpour and Hal Hill (Consultants)
also participated in the project preparation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 1 -
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrowers       Republic of Indonesia.
Beneficiaries:  Small and Medium Industrial Enterprises, through 13 participating
banks (PBs) including: Bank Negara Indonesia 1946; Bank Dagang
Negara; Bank Rakyat Indonesia; Bank Bumi Daya; Bank Niaga; Bank
Duta; Bank Umum Nasional; Bank Central Asia; Bank Pembangunan
Indonesia (BAPINDO); Indonesian Development Finance Company
(UPPINDO); the Regional Development Bank (RDB) of East Java; RDB
of Central Java; and RDB of North Sumatera.
Amounts         US$100.0 million equivalent.
Termss          The proposed loan would be made at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate and would have a term of 20 years, including five
years of grace.
Relendina       The Government of Indonesia would relend the proceeds of the
Terms:          loan in rupiah to the 13 PBs at a variable interest rate
determined on a six-month basis and equal to the weighted average
cost of their interest-bearing rupiah customer deposits, but
subject to a floor of the Bank's rate plus 1.75Z. The Bank loan
would be channeled by the Ministry of FInance: directly to tae
state commercial banks, the regional development banks and
BAPINDO; and indirectly through Bank Indonesia to the private
commercial banks and UPPINDO. The Government would. bear the
direct foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan. The spread
(currently about 6Z) between the Bank's rate and the relending
rate from the Government to the PBs would compensate the
Government for bearing the foreign exchange risk. This resultant
spread is comparable to the current 7.82 swap rate (LIBOR-Rupiah
deposit indexed) offered by Bank Indonesia for up. to three-year
foreign exchange (US dollar) contracts.   Bank funds would be
relent to the PBs for a period of 15 years, including three years
of grace. The PBs would onlend these funds to their subborrowers
at prevailing market rates for up to 12 years. Repayments of the
Bank-financed subloans could be relent by the PBs.
Proiect
Description:    The project has the specific objective of providing the means for
the growing small and medium industrial enterprise (SMIE) segment
(maw..facturing enterprises with from 20 to 150 employees) to
modernize, expand and diversify in response to an improved
economic environment, thereby increasing manufacturing output and
generating new jobs. Term credit at market rates channelled
through 13 PBs, including four state-owned commercial banks, four
private banks, two nationwide development banks and three regional
development banks, would support approximately 700 subprojects



- ii -
requiring a total investment of US$179 million of which US$100
would be provided by the Bank. A central technical assistance
(TA) unit located in the Indonesian Banking Development Institute
(LPPI) would screen and pre-qualify mostly local consultants for
work on the project and monitor their performance, assuring high
quality subproject investment proposals for the PBs. A network of
TA regional representatives would assist SMIEs in defining their
investment needs, locating local consultantc and reviewing their
work. The TA component would also share in the cost of the
enterprise-level consulting services, up to a maximum of 60Z of
the cost of any individual consulting assignment (the balance
would be paid oy SMIE owners). The TA component would be financed
by a grant from the Japanese Government and a combination of a
grant and loan from the Governlment of the Netherlands.
Benefits and
Risks:       The project would demonstrate the ability of SMIEs, as a dynamic
segment of the industrial sector, to respond to changing
incentives and contribute to the growth of manufacturing output
and employment. The experience in other East Asian countries has
shown that this segment provides essential linkages with the
larger industries and forms the underpinnings for sustained
industrial growth. The principal risk is that the demand for
credit and TA may not materialize as forecast. However, this risk
is small because the projected credit demand is based on each PB's
assessment of its own SMIE lending and is backed up with over 600
identified subprojects. The risk of the demand for TA services
falling below expectations is offset by the PBs' requirements for
high quality project proposals and the attractive cost-sharing
available to enterprises for consulting. Another potential risk
is that investment capital would be misallocated to highly
protected and uneconomic activities. Analysis indicates that this
risk is small; the vast majority of SMIEs are found in highly
competitive subsectors with below average or even negative
effective protection.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:al                        Local             ForeiRn          Total
--------------(USS million)---------… -
Investment Credit Component             79.0             100.0           179.0
Technical Assistance Component          10.4               3.2            13.6
Total Baseline Cost                   89.4             103.2           192.6
Price Contingency                        0.4               0.3             0.7
Total Proiect Costs                   89.8             103.5           193.3
Financing Plan:
World Bank                                               100.0          100.0
SMIE Owners' Equity                     59.1                -            59.1
Participating Banks                     25.0                -            25.0
Japan Grant Facility                     2.0               1.1            3.1
Netherlands Grant and Loan               3.7               2.4            6.1
Total                                 89.8             103.5          193.3
Estimated Disbursements: FY          1990   1991   1992   1993   1994    1995
Annual                            7.6   19.8   31.0   23.1   13.2       5.3
Cumulative                        7.6   27.4   58.4   81.5   94.7   100.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable
a/ Project costs include approximately US$10.0 million equivalent of taxes
and duties.



I. THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR AND SMALL AND MEDIUM
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES
A. Overview
1.1      Through the 1970s and up to 1982, Indonesia's marufacturing sector
grew rapidly at more thdn 122 annually, while GDP increased at about 72
annually in real terms. By 1982, the share of the manufacturing sector in GDP
had increased to 122, from 8 in 1966. Although manufacturing now accounts
for 142 of GDP, this is still lower than the average share (17?) in other
lower middle-income countries. The main growth in manufacturing until 1975
was in the production of consumer goods. As the scope for further growth in
this area diminished (by 1975, over 90X of consumer goods were produced
domestically), the emphasis shifted to import substitution of intermediate
goods such as cement, fertilizer, synthetic fibers, and iron and steel. The
share of consumer goods in ncn-oil manufacturing value-added consequently
declined from 65Z in 1974 to 442 in 1984. Although the private lector
dominated investment in the consumer goods sec-.or, public iAvestmtnt accounted
for most of the 'upstream' activities.
1.2      The rapid economic growth in the decade preceding 1982 was realized
despite an adverse policy environment propped up by the oil-based resource
boom that peaked in 1981. The country's policy framework, like that of many
other oil exporters, had a strong inward orientation with a high degree of
government intervetLtion in the economy. These shortcomings become apparent
when the fall in oil prices in the early 19808 caused a slowdown in domestic
demand, leading to widespread excess capacity and financial distress among
firms, especially in the sheltered manufacturing sector.  The manufacturing
sector, which had been growing at 122 per year during 1978-81, grew less than
22 in 1982.
1.3      In response to the deterioration in the external economic
environment, the Government of Indonesia initiated a 'oroad program of
structural reform in 1983. With the passage of time and progress in achieving
the more pressing stabilization objectives, the program's emphasis has shifted
to a range of measures designed to lay the foundation for more secure long-
term growth. The goal is the creation of a more dynamic and competitive non-
oil economy in which the private sector plays the leading role in investment
and growth, and in the non-oil export drive. With limited opportunities for
enhancing agricultural expansion, and more constrained resources than in the
past, the non-oil manufacturing industries, especially the labor-intensive
ones, must drive output and employment growth.
1.4      Indonesia's growth-oriented adjustment is succeeding.  This is
evidenced by: the revival of GDP growth, which had nearly stalled at only
1.52 during 1982, to about 4% a year in 1984-87; the pickup in manufacturing
growth from less than 2X in 1982 to over 6% a year in 1984-87; and the surge
in non-oil exports, which increased in real terms by 132 a year in 1982-86 and
by over 24? in 1987. It is indicated as well by a strong recovery in private
i"vestment since 1986, after declining during 1982-85. In the industrial
sector, the revival in private investment has been broad-based, cutting across



- 2 -
all industries and size of enterprises. The policy reforms under way have
helped improve the climate for efficient development of all segments of the
manufacturing sector, particularly for the privately-owned, small-and medium-
size enterprises. As the experience of the more successful industrializing
countries shows, such enterprises have a vital role to play in export-oriented
industrialization strategies.
B. The Small and Medium Industrial Enterprise Segment
1.5      As in other counitries, the changes that have accompanied
industrialization in Indonesia include a shift towards la.ger units in the
size distribution of industrial enterprises. From 1974 to 1985, while the
number of family s2ale industrial enterprises (firms with 19 or fewer
employees) increased by 152, the number of small- and medium-size industrial
enterprises (SMIEs) with 20 to 150 employees grew by over 80Z.1 In the same
period, the share of family scale enterprises in manufacturing employment
declined from 832 to 67Z. The family scale enterprises' current contribution
to manufacturing value-added has also slipped from its 222 contribution in
1974 to an estimated 192 by 1985. There are over 1.4 million such firms
compared to about 13,000 industrial units with 20 or more workers as seen in
Table 1.1.
Table 1.1:  SIZE DISTRIBUTION OF THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR in 1985 a/
Number of       Percent Share of
Enterprises   Employees  Value-Added
Family Scale (less than 20 employees)        1,440,000        68         19
Small and Medium Scale (20-150 employees)       10,775         9         15
Large Scale (more than 150 employees)            2.127        23         66
Total                              1,452,902       100         100
a/ most recent available census.
Sourcet Central Bureau of Statistics
1/ There are at least three systems of classifying enterprises by scale
being used in Indonesia. All three make only a distinction between
'small' and 'large' (no 'medium' classification) and have
unrealistically low cutoff points for small enterprises. Bank
Indonesia's system is based on net worth, with a ceiling for small
enterprises of Rp 40 million; the Ministry of Industry (MOI) uses Rp 70
million in assets as the borderline between the two types; and the
Bureau of Statistics uses employment, with a small enterprise having
less than 20 employees. The classification system used in this report
is similar to systems in use in other Asian countries, e.g., Korea, and
is based on the number of employees. Thus, family scale implies less
than 20 employees; small and medium: 20 to 150 employees; and large:
more than 150 employees. The definition used in the report for SMIEs
also restricts eligibility to firms with no more thani US$500,000 in
operating assets (less land and inventoriGs).



1.6      The 11,000 SHIEs account for 9Z of employment and 15Z of value-added
in the manufacturing sectors. Aside from the difference ir. their average
size, the SMIEs differ from other segments of the manufacturing sector in
their industrial affiliation and ownership, and in their comparative
efficiency and presence in labor-intensive subsectors.
1.7      The industrial affiliations of SMIEs are comparatively dispersed.
The four industrial subsectors with a high concentration of SMIEs are
food/agroindustry, tobacco, garments/textiles and wood products. However,
these subsecto-s accounted for less than 502 of SW-Es' employment and
value-added in 1985. In those four subsectors, comparable figures were 64? of
emDloyment and 522 of value-added by the large ,ndustrial enterprises.  In
1974, over 902 of family scale enterprises and their employees were attached
to on2.y five subsectors. Fast growing subsectors with high SMIE
repre!entation include: garments, leather, footwear, wood processing and
build.'ig materials.
1.8      With some exceptions, the geographic distribution of SMIE firms is
broadly similar to that of all manufacturing firms in Indonesia. Over 802 of
the 11,000 SMIE firms are located on Java, and these firms provide 80Z of all
SMIE employment and gererate 662 of SMIE value-added.  Most of the remaining
SMIE employment and output is in Sumatera.  By province, four--Jakarta, West
Java, Central Java and East Java--stand out. Outside Java, North Sumatera is
by far the most important, follewed by Bali, South Sulawesi, Lampung. South
Sumatera and South Kalimantan. A program that focuses on these ten provinces
would clearly capture the great majority of SMIE firms, in addition to provid-
ing a rich diversity of g'-ographic and industrial coverage.
1.9      The ownershiR of SMIEs resides more in private Indonesian hands than
dc3s the ownership of large scale enterprises. This ownership pattern is
expected because public and foreign manufacturing investment in developing
countries tctnd to locate in comparatively larger units. In Indonesia, this
tendency has been reinforced by the massive public investment in capital-
intensive subsectors of the New Order Resime, and by the minitmun equity
investment requirements of the Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM).
1.10     The SMIEs have comparatively greater preience in labor-intensive
subsectors. In the manufacturing sector, the SMIEs' shares in subsectoral
value-added are positively correlated with labor intensities. Indonesian data
do not permit intra-industry factor-intensity comparisons between the SNIEs
and the family scale or large scale enterprises. Evidence from other
countries indicates no systematic relationship between labor intensity and
scale of production in narrowly defined subsectors. For most manufacturing
industries, however, total factor productivities tend to peak in the range of
20-200 workers. Thus, SMIEs employ their resources of capital and manpower at
least as efficiently as the family or large scale enterprises operating in the
same subsectors.



- 4 -
C. Changes in Policy Orientation and the Small and Medium
Industrial Enterprises
1.11     In the 1970s and early 1980s, expanding oil revenues enabled
Indonesia to sustain a policy framework characterized by large public
investments in capital-intensive industries together with a trade and
regulatory regime that stifled competition, and accorded high and highly
disparate protection to a wide range of manufacturing subsectors without any
apparent sacrifice in economic growth. The Government has never explicitly
promoted the development of the SMIE segment of the industrial sector. The
prevailing policies were rarely targeted against enterprises of specific size
and were mostly sector- or subsector-specific. Nevertheless, since the
enterprise-size distribution is not identical across industries, these
policies were not scale-neutral, and within the manufacturing sector were
biased against the SMIEs. For example, very small enterprises received
subsidized financing under the Small Investment Credit Program (KIK) and the
Small Permanent Working Capital Program (KMKP) (para. 1.26) while very large
enterprises had access to low-cost direct ctedits.
1.12     The adjustment program, which was launched in 1983 to address the
deteriorating external economic environment, is designed to promote a private,
competitive non-oil economy. The macroeconomic measures of the program,
including successive austere budgets, flexible exchange rate management and
taxation reforms, are targeted not only at stabilization objectives, but also
at reducing direct public involvement in production and sustaining competi-
tiveness of the economy. The program's trade, industrial and financial policy
measures (discussed below) are designed to reduce, and eventually to
eliminate, the industrial and enterprise-size biases of the policy environment
and provide level ground for Indonesian industries and enterprises to compete
and prosper in domestic and foreign markets.
Trade Policy Reform
1.13     At the start of this decade, Indonesia's import regime was charac-
terized by high and disparate tariff rates. In 1982-85, the pressures result-
ing from the slowdown of the domestic economy led to an increase in nontariff
barriers (NTBs) to imports. In 1985, however, the Government announced two
major trade reforms: first, an across-the-board reduction in both the level
and dispersion of tariffs that lowered the tariff ceiling from 2252 to 602;
and second, a complete overhaul of customs, port and shipping operations that
speeded up the flow of imports and exports and significantly lowered the cost
of freight forwarding. Subsequent trade-related reforms in 1986 and 1987 have
reduceu reliance on NTBs and import licensing restrictions, adjusted tariffs
and import surcharges, and lowered the anti-export bias of the trade regime.
In November 1988, the Government announced a new package of trade policy
changes further reducing effective protection through elimination of NTBs on
certain chemicals, steel, food and beverages, and all plastics. This latest
package reduces the proportion of total domestic production covered by NTBs
from 402 to about 302.



- 5 -
1.14     Despite substantial progress in recent years, the prevailing import
regime still tends to favor the manufacturing sector and, within that sector,
industries in which the SMIEs have smaller presence. In 1987, the trade
regime accorded a 222 real effective rate of protection to the (non-oil)
manufacturing sector. Across manufacturing industries, however, SHIEs are
associated with lower nominal rates of protection, lower real effective rates
of protection, and lower output shares subject to NTBs.2   The SMIEs' share in
value-added by the manufacturing subsectors that received negative real
effective protection was 262, which exceeds their share (15?) in total
manufacturing value-added. At the other extreme, the SMIEs had a negligible
presence in those subsectors identified as having contributed negatively to
manufacturing value-added at the international prices of 1987. Further
reductions in NTBs and tariff rationalization are likely to be of continuing
benefit to ti;e SMIE segment of the manufacturing sector.
Industrial Regulation
1.15     Trade policy is only one aspect of the regulatory framework that
influences the business environment in Indonesia. Foreign and domestic entre-
preneurs have to contend with a multitude of licensing and reporting require-
ments affecting all areas of investment, operations, and foreign trade. A
complex and restrictive set of regulations have combined to stifle competi-
tion, inhibit flexibility in resource use and retard productivity improve-
ments, all of which have served to raise productioa costs. The regime
inhibits business flexibility that is the real strength of smaller, privately
owned enterprises. However, the 1.4 million family scale industrial
enterprises are either exempted from the need to comply with the regulations
or their compliance is not vigorously sought. At the other extreme, the 2,000
large industrial enterprises, which are mostly public or foreign-owned, are
well-positioned to seek favorable changes in, or interpretation of,
regulations.
1.16     In parallel with its trade policy reforms, the Government has
initiated deregulation of the industrial sector by simplifying and relaxing
the multitude of domestic regulations and licensing procedures that
constrained the performance of the industrial sector. A start was made in
1985, when the procedures for investment approvals were streamlined. The
maximum number of requirements for an investment application was reduced to
15, compared with 25 in 1984 and 37 in 1977. In 1986, the number of areas
open to private foreign and domestic investment was expanded substantially,
foreign investment companies were given greater access to domestic capital and
financial institutions, and domestic ownership requirements were eased. A
2/ In a review of 663 SMIE pipeline subprojects (Annex 1) identified by
the banks participating in the proposed project, less than 102 (by
investment amount) was in subsectors with high real effective rates of
protection (e.g., vehicle assembly, chemicals), and approximately 702
was in subsectors with low or negative real effective rates of
protection (e.g., food/agroindustry, wood processing, furniture).



number of other major steps were taken in June 1987. As a result of these
measures, firms are now allowed to ircrease production by up to 30Z of their
licensed capacity without requiring new investment approval. More
significantly, firms are now permitted to diversify production within much
broader product categories. The June 1987 deregulation measures, by enhancing
operational flexibility and reducing barriers to competition, will benefit
SMIEs. In December 1987, further measures were announced that will reduce
disparities in the treatment of domestic and foreign firms and remove some of
the main concerns of foreign investors in Indonesia.
Financial Policies
1.17     In the 1970s and until 1983, the financial sector was tightly
controlled, with the Government channelLng its financial savings into the
banking system through low-interest Bank Indonesia (BI) liquidity credits in
pursuit of a variety of economic and social objectives. Subsidized liquidity
credits targeted either the "economically weak" entrepreneurs who managed the
family scale enterprises (e.g., KIK/KMKP credit programs) or the large
enterprises in favored industries. In addition to the liquidity credit
programs, the deposit and lending rates of state banks were set by BI at low
levels and tended to be negative in real terms. This not only retarded
financial development, but also distorted signals for the allocation of
credits to the detriment of the small- and medium-size enterprises. It led
banki to favor activities with lower risk or transaction costs i.e., foreign
deposits, shorter term credits, and loans to larger, better known and,
therefore, more creditworthy borrowers.
1.18     Since June 1983, the authorities have freed the deposit and lending
rates (except for loans refinanced through BI liquidity credits), reduced
direct governmental credits to state-owned enterprisea, curtailed the number
of special priority programs qualifying for new BI liquidity credits, provided
more neutral conditions for the public and privately owned banks to compete,
and eliminated credit ceilings for all banks. In October 1988, the Government
announced a major package of financial sector reforms. The package broadens
the services that private commercial banks and non-bank financial institutions
(NBFIs) can offer such as: receiving deposits from public corporations; deal-
ing in foreign exchange; issuing certificates of deposits; and establishing
branches outside Jakarta. These reforms have the potential to mobilize more
domestic resourcev to promote greater competition and market orientation, and
to improve efficiency of credit allocation. But they have not yet climinated
the enterprise-size bias from the provision of industrial finance. The
special priority credit programs continue, albeit reduced in number. The
share of total institutional credits allocated to state-owned enterprises has
not declined. The prolonged period of administrative controls has deprived
the banks of an extensive track record of credit relations with private,
corporate clients, and impeded development of their capabilities for credit
appraisal and administration, and for maturity transformation. This is
particularly critical at a time when investment by the private sector, of
which the SMIEs comprise an important segment, is expected to take up the
slack left by stagnating public investment. However, recent deregulation
measures and the increased availability of term investment credit at market
rates are providing the means for the banking sector to respond to the private
sector's needs.



-7-
Other Policies and ProRrams
1.19     Government-sponsored Technical Assistance.  Government programs have
generally been directed towards providing credit and technical assistance to
family scale industry and the provision of generalized training opportunities
and physical facilities (industrial estates). Current revisions of government
policy related to industrial development, credit and trade greatly improve the
environment for SMIE development but direct assistance is sti±l required for
many firms to take advantage of these increased opportunities. Several
industry-specific technical institutes operate as semi-autonomous units of the
Ministry of Industry. Some focus on providing technical training to managers
and personnel of enterprises in their technical field. Others concentrate on
solving industrial problems and disseminating technical information. None
appear to have adequate funds available to develop active outreach programs to
SMIEs. Mulilateral and bilateral doisor agencies have sponsored enterprise
development technical assistance activities. Some of those programs include
aspects that overlap with the proposed SM'E project objectives (e.g., the
Export Development Project, which offers export market information to
enterprises), but none are aimed at providing direct firm-level assistance to
SMIEs.
1.20     Non-government Organization (NGO) Programs.  NGO programs tend to
focus either on the development of family scale enterprises or the provision
of valuable but generalized training services. Again, these are services that
SMIEs use well, but the programs are not directed at meeting the specific
needs of SMIEs.
1.21     Subcontracting.  Subcontracting is critical for the efficient
development of manufacturing industries since competitiveness of the large
end-producers and the subsectors as a whole depend heavily on the development
of close working relationships with suppliers. Subcontracting relationships
in Indonesia are not well developed and the Government has no effective
programs to promote subcontracting or to provide channels for arbitration
between large firms and subcontractors.
The Environment and Industry
1.22     Industry is a major contributor to the degradation of water resoutces
on Java (where most industries are located), with industrial waste
constituting about 50Z of the pollution load of the island's major river
basins. In a study of 70 industries located along the Java's Surabaya River,
probably the most polluted, only one firm had wastewater discharge facilities.
In addition, the study found that only four large firms at this location
caused 75Z of the total industrial pollution load. For over 10 years,
Indonesia has had standards for ambient water quality based on World Health
Organization (WHO) guidelines. In 1982, it drafted additional guidelines
which include discharge standards and provision for imposing tariffs for waste
discharges, but these have not been enacted and, in 1986, it issued
_egulations requiring that industrial projects be subjected to environmental
impact assessments.   This notwithstanding, industrial discharges are rarely
adequately monitored and controlled. There is urgent need for a unified
approach and commitments to action from the many overlapping Government



agencies, both at the central and at the provincial levels, that theoretically
have responsibilities in pollution control matters. The Bank is working to
improve Indonesia's response to environmental conditions and its main vehicle
to date has been the report, "Indonesia - Forest, Land and Water: Issues in
Sustainable Development", produced in 1988 and now under review by the
Government. The Bank is encouraging the Government to focus on the
institutional weaknesses and to develop a unified plan for industrial
pollution abatement. Such a plan would define national objectives in
controlling industrial pollution and cover regulatory, institutional,
financial, economic and technical aspects of the problem. In the interim, the
Bank's strategy on industrial pollution requires that Bank-financed industrial
investments should satisfy all existing environmental standaids.
D. The Bank's Strategy and Role in the Industrial Sector
1.23     Since 1983, the Bank's strategy in Indonesia has been to support
adjustment of the economy to lower oil revenues through maintenance of
macroeconomic stability and transition from oil dependency to a more
diversified and industrialized economy. In the industrial sector, the
strategy has had two major and complementary components. The first component
fosters the Government's efforts to deregulate trade, industry and finance,
and to establish appropriate incentives for efficient industrial growth,
through a general policy dialogue and related sector-neutral financial
support. The two Trade Policy Adjustment Loans (Nos. 2780 and 2937-IND)
characterize the first component of the Bank's strategy. The second component
comprises targeted technical and financial assistance to enhance sectoral and
subsectoral supply responses to changed incentives. The two Export
Development Projects (EDP and EDP II, Loans 2702 and 2979-IND), a planned
series of industrial restructuring operations, and the proposed project, which
are designed to be complementary, comprise major elements of the second
component.
1.24     The second Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (TPAL II), approved in April
1988, supported a continuation of the Government's adjustment program, and in
particular, a new set of trade, industrial and investment reforms announced
during 1987. Specific measures supported by TPAL II were: (a) extending the
program of trade policy reforms through the removal of import licenses, tariff
adjustments and relaxation of export licenses; (b) deregulating industry by
significantly easing regulations regarding capacity expansion and product
diversification and streamlining licensing steps; (c) relaxing rules regarding
foreign investment; and (d) extending 1983 financial sector reforms to
encourage the development of equity markets and to make the conduct of
monetary policy more efficient.
1.25     The two Export Development Projects were designed to elicit supply
responses mainly from comparatively large export-oriented enterprises by
increasing their access to term finance and the services of export-supporting
infrastructure. Under the planned series of industrial restructuring
operations, large enterprises in particular subsectors (e.g., textiles,
wood-based industries, and engineering) adjusting to fundamental changes in



- 9 -
policies and initiatives will be aided with technical assistance and finance.
The delivery of industrial finance and technical assistance to SMIEs cannot be
organized at the subsectoral level because such firms are dispersed across
manufacturing industries. They are also too numerous and too small to be
subject to individual, firm-level attention. Yet, by being mostly in private
hands as well as lean and flexible, the SMIEs have the capacity to respond
vit"rously to changing incentives if supported appropriately. In combination
with the Export Development ProjectZ and the Industrial Restructuring Pr'ject
(IRP) (which is now being prepared), the proposed project would augment a
broadly based supply response to the ongoing adjustment process through
increased efficiency in the delivery of industrial finance and technical
services.
Previous Bank Experience
1.26     TLe Bank Group has provided US$1.1 billion in 15 operations to the
industrial sector, 10 of which were primarily for large enterprises and two
for rural credit systems.  The remain4   three comprised US$350 million for
the Small Enterprise Development Project, (SEDPs) I, II and III which assisted
BI's KIK/KMKP program. Although the SEDPs met their objectives of job
generacion, bank staff training, and equity, as credit operations, they failed
to achieve their policy and institutional development objectives due tot poor
borrower selection criteria, subsidized interest rates, insufficient spreads
to intermediaries, and overly generous credit insurance; a combination that
producedk poor collection rates and high arrears. In addition, the SEDP
targetei the risky, 'rery small (three employees per enterprise) family
enterprises with no credit experience. The technical assistance system used
for the SEDPs was also costly, ineffective, and used foreign consultants to
develop project profiles and demonstration projects for family enterprises.
It is inapplicable to medium-scale enterprise. In contrast, the KUPEDES rural
credit project (Loan 2800-IND) has demonstrated that term financing at market
rates is attractive to small scale borrowers; ready access to credit is more
important than its cost; and credit insurance for small scale borrowers is
unnecessary if the lending institution receives an adequate spread.  The
proposed project design reflects the lessons learned from the SEDP and KUPEDES
experience by offering market rate credit to SMIEs (20 to 150 employees) with
all credit risk taken by the participating financial intermediaries.



- 10 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives and Description
Project Objectives
2.1      By providing high quality, cost-effective technical assistance and
unsubsidized term credit, the project would help develop the S61fE segment of
industrial enterprises, demonstrating their potential (as dynamic
entrepreneurs and creditworthy bank clients) to respond to new opportunities;
to plan and implement their investment and operational strategies; and to
modernize, expand and diversify, thereby increasing manufarturing output and
jobs. The project's immediate objective would be to incrense the supply of
unsubsidized term finance and technical assistance to qualified SMIEs. The
secondary objectives would be: to develop the capacity .f the local
consulting industry to offer cost-effective, quality technical services to
local manufacturing enterprises; and to enhance the financial system's
capacity for analyzing and managing investment financing.
Proiect Description
2.2      The proposed project would consist of an investment credit component
and a technical assistance component. The Bank and the 13 participating banks
(PBs) in the project (paras. 2.25-2.27) would provide approximately 702 of the
US$179 million investment costs and entrepreneurs would invest the remainder.
Bank funds would be channeled through Ministry of Finance (MOF) and BI (under
the same interest rate formula as EDP II and IRP) to the PBs, which would
include four state-owned commercial banks, four private banks, two national
development finance banks, and three regional development banks. The maximum
subloan size would be US$375,000 for investment purposes; up to 402
(US$150,000) could be added for permanent working capital. Each PB would
subscribe to an allocation of the Bank loan and would pay commitment fees on
its undisbursed balance.
2.3      Th( technical assistance (TA) component (US$13.6 million) would
establish and implement an enterprise level assistance program to enable SNIEs
to prepare high quality investment proposals. Assistance would be
accomplished by pre-qualified consultants, who would work directly for the
enterprise, but with the project TA management unit providing a quality
control review function and sharing costs on a selective basis. LPPI, the
Indonesian Banking Development Institute, would manage the central TA Unit.
Regional representatives, working under the supervision of the TA Unit, would
help SMIEs to draw up terms of reference, identify consultants and review
proposals. A total of US$6.7 million of the component's cost would be for
approximately 120 person-years of enterprise-level consulting, which would be
funded mainly by the SMIEs themselves (US$5.1 million) and by the project



- 11 -
through its revolving TA Fund (US$1.6 million). The project's share of the
cost of enterprise level consultant assignments would be limited to the lesser
of US$10,000 or 602 of the total cost of each consultant assignment. The TA
component also would provide training to local consultants and SMIE staff in
specific subjects such as report writing and investment analyses. A special
training subcomponent would strengthen the staff of the three participating
Regional Development Banks (RDBs) (paras. 2.33-2.34) in portfolio management,
investment analysis and information systems. The TA component would include
funding for an Appraisal Advisor and support staff, stationed in LPPI, who
would advise PB staff on the project reporting requirements and subproject
appraisal methods.
B. Technical Assistance to SMIEs Under the Proposed Proiect
Obiective and Target Group
2.4      The objective of the projec.'s technical assistance component is to
complement and enhance the investment credit component of the project by:
(a) providing highly qualified and carefully targeted technical and
environmental assistance and training to SMIEs; (b) promoting the linkage
between SMIEs and providers of high quality technical and managerial
assistance; and (c) increasing the capability of Indonesian consultants to
provide technical and environmental assistance to private industry. Annex 1
shows the cost of this Component over the project period. Details of the
component are given in Appendix 1.
Resources Available
2.5      Use of Consultants by SMIEs.  Small- and medium-scale industrial
firms face the same management, financial and production problems as larger
firms, but possess fewer resources with which to address them. Where larger
firms are able to employ the technical and managerial expertise they require
on a full-time basis, smaller companies must rely on part-time help and key
individuals capable of playing multiple roles in the company. Outside tech-
nical assistance is most commonly used in the preparation of business plans
for start-up or expansion enterprises. Other areas in which consulting
assistance is frequently required include market research and the development
of marketing programs, the identification and adaptation of appropriate
production technologies, financial and production management, inventory
control procedures and quality control. Although there has historically been
considerable resistance among SMIEs to using consultants, there are several
reasons why there will be a strong demand for SMIE project-supported technical
assistance. As industrial development gains momentum in Indonesia, the number
of SMIEs with complex problems and opportunities is increasing rapidly and
there is increased demand for specialized outside assistance. Although no
formal link is intended between the credit component and the technical
assistance component of the project, most handling banks may require that the
majority of the loan requests they approve be supported by a business plan
which has been prepared by pre-qualified consultants familiar with Bank
requirements. Finally, the proposed project calls upon SMIEs to prepare and
comply with environmental assessment, a field in which such industries have
limited competence and experience.



- 12 -
2.6      SMIE Service Providers.  Although there are sufficient technical
resources available to assist private entrepreneurs to develop their business-
es, including government agencies, technical institutes, bilateral/multi-
lateral donor programs, non-governmental organizations, private consulting
firms, and universities, there are several factors that limit their
effectiveness and availablity to SMIEs, including: (a) public sector programs
have been primarily oriented towards assisting the household and very small
scale enterprises; (b) private consultant activities and public sector
attempts to develop the consulting industry have been directed primarily
towards civil engineering activities and government work; (c) capable
technical assistance providers have been heavily concentrated in Jakarta;
(d) NGOs have lacked the funding to develop and operate effective SMIE
development programs; and (e) the universities are just beginning to develop
and use their capacity to assist private industry.
Project TA System
2.7      Private Sector Approach.  The technical assistance approach developed
for the project is based on the use of private sector resources and is 6market
driven" in that it will be responsive to the expressed needs of its client
group. There are several reasons why this approach was chosen: (a) SHIEs
have more specific and varied TA needs than family scale industries;
(b) constraints that frequently affect government programs are reduced; and
(c) a vehicle is provided for attracting local participation.
2.8      Principles of the TA Program.  Several key principles should govern
the operation of the program: (a) the program should be demand driven,
providing services for which there is a present demand; (b) geographic and
subsector priorities need not be determined except in response to specific
demand; subsectors with demonstrated low rates of economic return should not
be encouraged; (c) the program should be flexible enough to meet needs of
different industrial subsectors and individual enterprises; (d) local
consultant use should be maximized in all aspects of the project;
(e) operating links should be established between the project TA Unit and
other projects of similar or complementary purpose; (f) all TA should be
provided on a cost sharing basis; and (g) emphasis should be placed on
attaining and maintaining high standards of quality.
The TA Unit
2.9      Functions.  The technical assistance program will have three
functions: enterprise level consulting services, training, and special
topical studies.
2.10     Enterprise level consulting assistance will be the major focus of the
technical assistance program with the emphasis being placed on creating
effective links between firms needing assistance and appropriate service
providers. The TA Unit will "pre-qualify' service providers in relevant
technical areas, assist SMIEs to prepare appropriate terms of reference and
identify appropriate service providers, and provide a quality control check
over work carried out. In many cases the project will participate directly in



- 13 -
financing technical assistance activities on a shared basis. The TA Unit will
not provide direct consulting assistance to SMIEs, nor will it contract with
third parties to provide such direct assistance.
2.11     Much smaller elements of the technical assistance program will be
involved with training and special topical studies.  The project will limit
its involvement to highly focused and directly applicable training and
research activities aimed at filling gaps left by other programs.  Training
activities will focus on individual consultants, handling banks and
entrepreneurs, and will be directed at particular topics of operational
relevance to the project. Maximum use will be made of opportunities to direct
individuals to other relevant training programs being run by LPPI, INKINDO
(Indonesian Consulting Association), the technical institutes and others. A
relatively small element (US$200,000) of the TA Unit's program will be the
study of special topics related to the development of SMIEs. The TA Unit may
elect to carry out certain studies of limited scope itself. More often,
however, such studies would be contracted to qualified consulting firms or
other institutions, with the TA Unit providing the terms of reference and
supervision. Study topics, illustrative of those that might be accomplished
in the course of the project, if need arises, aret (a) market structure and
potential for specific SMIE subsectors; (b) financial and economic impact of
credit and TA on the target group; (c) economic rates of return for specific
SMIE subsectors; and (d) subcontracting opportunities for SMIEs.
TA Unit Staffing. Structure and Organization
2.12     Host Institution.  The TA Unit will include a mix or expatriate and
local consultants organized as shown in Figure 1. LPPI will serve as host
institution to the TA Unit. The selection of LPPI took account of several
factors: (a) it is an autonomous institution with strong operating links to
BI and the banking industry; (b) it is a strong institution, with the
administrative and leadership capacity to manage the project effectively; and
(c) it is in a position to be neutral with respect to service providers and
largely free from government restrictions.
2.13     Although the program should not place a financial burden on LPPI,
neither will it serve as the source of funds to support LPPI's other programs.
The program will be expected to generate its own financial support for those
elements of the program that LPPI may wish to continue beyond the period of
the project.
2.14     Regional Representation.  LPPI is a Jakarta-based organization with
no regional network of branch offices. This lack will be overcome by the
provision of representational services provided by various of BI's Regional
Project Management Units (RPMUs). Use of the RPMUs has additional advantages
as it makes use of the expertise, facilities and local networks developed in
carrying out the long-running Small Enterprise Development Projects (para
1.26).  Specific RPMU responsibilities will include promoting the project's TA
services in their regions, cataloging available service providers, assisting
entrepreneurs to identify and define specific providers, assisting
entrepreneurs to identify and define specific consulting tasks, providing



- 14 -
entrepreneurs with lists of pre-qualified service providers, monitoring and
facilitating individual consulting assignments, and serving as liaison between
SHIE project participants in the regions and the TA Unit in Jakarta. The RPMU
personnel would not be empowered to approve consulting contracts or to
pre-qualify individual consultants, functions that would devolve to the
Central TA Unit. Full-time RPMU regional representatives will be contracted
in four provinces. Half time representation will be required in an additional
six provinces. Other regions, with relatively less demand for SMIE
developm;ut assistance, will be serviced on an "as needed" basis.
FiRure 1: LPPI TA UNIT STRUCTURE
|LPPI Project Director (I)|
l Team Lead er (E)      l
T                    Mgmt/Bus Planning Spec.
AI
U                      Dep. Team Leader (I)
N                     Mgmt/Bus Planning Spec.
I
T
|Marketing Spec.(E) 
iMarketing Spec.(I                 Computer Spec.(I)
|Ind. Engineer (E)Legal Advisor (I)
(part time)
|Ind. Engineer (I)|                Amn&Ceia
Bank Indonesia RPMU Representatives
Note: (E) indicates expatriate personnel
(I) indicates Indonesian personnel
2.15     Day-to-day management of the TA Unit will be the responsibility of
LPPI through its appointed Project Director. Figure 2 illustrates the
relationship of the TA Unit with other elements of the project and outside
institutions.



- 15 -
Figure 2: LPPI TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ORGANIZATION CHART
LPPI
NATIONAL                        TA  UNIT                       SERVICE
INSTITUTIONS                                                    PROVIDERS
REGIONAL REPRESENTATIVES
(BANK INDONESTIAS RPMU'S)
S M I E
ENTREPRENEURS
TA Unit Costs and Cost Sharing
2.16     Total operating costs of the TA Unit, including the RPMU
representatives, are projected at nearly US$5.4 million over the four-year
life of the project, excluding price contingencies. The project operating
budget is based on the resource estimates presented in Table 2.1.



- 16 -
Table 2.1: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PERSON-MONTH REQUIREMENTS a/
Expatriate          Local
----- person-months ----
Long-Term Technical Assistances
Expatriate TA Unit Members             103
Indonesian TA Unit Members              --                 336
Regional Representatives                --                 336
Total Long-Term                        108                 672
Short-Term Technical Assistance:
Expatriate Consultants                  24                  --
Indonesian Consultants                  --                  36
Total Technical Assistance             132                 708
a/ TA projections do not include short-term consultants utilized by the TA
Fund (see Table 2.2 for TA Fund person-months).
2.17     Personnel and operating cost projections are based on a phase do-on of
the technical assistance component in Year 4 either towards a complete
discontinuation of the effort at the end of the project or as part of a
transition to a self-sustaining basis for certain subcomponents. A decision
could be made during the third or fourth project year to continue the full
program for an additional period as part of a general project continuation.
It is assumed that such a continuation would involve a lower level of
expatriate involvement than has been projected for this first phase.
Technical Assistance Fund
2.18     A separate technical assistance fund (TA fund) will be set aside to
be used to participate in the financing of selected direct technical
assistance and training activities on a cost-sharing basis and to carry out a
limited amount of special topical studies.
2.19     An element of cost sharing between the project and participating
enterprises has been built into the operation of the TA Fund as a means of:
(a) spreading project benefits over a wider group of beneficiaries than could
be reached if activities were funded by the project alone, and (b) insuring a
high degree of participant interest in the assistance provided. Selected
feasibility study/business planning assignments will be supported on a
contingent loan basis, whereby the project will contribute up to 60Z of the
cost of an assignment to be repaid only if the project is subsequently
financed and developed. Other types of consulting assignments (e.g.,



- 17 -
operational problem solving) and training will be supported on a straight
cost-sharing basis. Withdrawals from the fund will be jointly agreed upon by
the Project Director and th TA Unit Team Leader.
2.20     Projections based on conservative assumptions indicate that the
US$2.2 million Technical Assistance Fund will be complemented by over US$5
million in private funds. In addition, an estimated US$400,000 w-ill remain in
the revolving fund to support business plans and feasibility studies at the
end of the four-year project.
2.21     Proiected Outputs.  The TA Fund is expected to generate the following
outputs during the four-year life of the project.
Table 2.2: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FUND OUTPUTS
Local Technical Assistance - 1,235 person-months
Expatriate Tech. Assistance - 24 person-months
Subproject Investment Plans Prepared - 526 plans
Subproject Investment Plans Approved/Financed - 368 plans
Other Direct TA Activities - 160 activities
Training Program Participants - 1,000 persons
Topical Studies - 8 studies
Financing Arrangements for TA Component
2.22     The TA component would be financed by the Japanese Grant Facility
(JGF) and a grant and loan from the Government of the Netherlands (GON).
Financing supplied by the JGF would fund: (a) the Appraisal Advisor and
staff in LPPI (para. 2.38); and (b) the TA Fund and project-related training
and studies carried out by LPPI. The JGF grant, with the Bank as
administrator, would be channeled to the Government (GOI) via a Grant
Agreement between GOI and the Bank. A financial arrangement, satisfactory to
the Bank, would pass the JGF funds from GOI to BI and on to LPPI. The GON
loan and grant in-kind would fund (a) the TA unit expatriate experts; (b)
vehicles and equipment used by the TA Unit; (c) locally-hired counterparts of
the TA Unit at LPPI; (d) incremental operating costs of LPPI for hosting the
TA unit; and (e) regional re;presentation expenses using BI's RPMU system. The
GON grant in-kind and loan funds would be channeled by a financial
arrangement, satisfactory to the Bank, from GOI through BI to LPPI. Under a
memorandum of understanding between LPPI and BI, the former would pass on
those GON funds to BI to be used by RPMU regional representatives of BI.  LPPI
would sign a Project Agreement outlining its duties and responsibilities under
the project. LPPI has adopted a statement of objectives describing the
principles of SMIE Technical Assistance. Agreement was reached on these
arrangements during negotiations and the signing by LPPI and BI of the
financial arrangements related to the JGF grant, and the GON grant in-kind and
loan to GOI and BI and onto LPPI would be conditions of effectiveness of the
Bank loan. GON representatives at negotiations confirmed that an agreement
between GON and GOI was reached on February 23, 1989 on the use of DPL 4.8
million as a grant in-kind and DFL 7.4 million as a loan for the TA component.



- 18 -
Implementation Schedule for TA Component
2.23     To ensure that the project's technical assistance component is fully
operational at the same time as the credit component, the following schedule
for app.)inting staff and experts was discussed and agreed at negotiations.
The Bank and LPPI agreed on a preliminary list of candidates for the Appraisal
Advisor position. The appointments of the Appraisal Advisor and the TA Unit
Team Leader would be prior to October 1, 1989. Tendering procedures were
confirmed during negotiations. At negotiations, LPPI and the Bank reviewed
the TA Statement of Objectives that would outline and define the project's
beneficiaries, cost sharing mechanism and functions of the TA Unit. LPPI
adopted the Statement of Objectives on March 15, 1989.
Table 2.3: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Position                                   Appointment Date
Appraisal Advisor                                  October 1, 1989 a/
Staff of Appraisal Advisor                        December 1, 1989
RPMU Representatives                              December 1, 1989
TA Unit Team Leader                               October 1, 1989 a/
TA Unit Expatriate Experts                        November 1, 1989
TA Unit Counterparts and Staff                    December 1, 1989
a/ Dated covenants of LPPI Project Agreement
Semi-Annual Implementation Review
2.24     The TA Unit and the Appraisal Advisor (para. 2.38) through LPPI would
produce semi-annual implementation reports on June 1 and December 1 of each
year of the project, which would be distributed to the Government, the Bank
and GON for comment. The report would describe progress on: enterprise
assistance, staffing, cost-sharing, training, studies and projections for the
future. Assurances were obtained at negotiations on the Semi-annual
Implementation Review.
C. Financial Intermediation and SMIE Investment Under -he Proposed Project
Choice of ParticiDatina Banks
2.25     The Indonesian financial sector comprises a banking system with BI at
the apex, five state-owned commercial banks (SCBs), 64 private national
commercial banks (PCBs), 10 foreign banks, one joint-venture bank, a state
development bank (BAPINDO), 27 regional development banks (RDBs), and three
development banks principally engaged in medium- and long-term lending and
equity participation. The decision to use thirteen of these institutions to



- 19 -
channel the preposed project funds to sub-borrowers is a signal of support to
small and medium industrial enterprises and to their need for medium-term
financing. This broad base is expected to enhance competition among the
participating financial institutions, in line with one of the main objectives
of the ongoing financial sector reforms in Indonesia.
2.26     Participating Banks.  The financial institutions selected to
participate in the proposed project aret four state commercial barMcs [Bank
Dagang Negara (BDN), Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (Bank BNI), Bank Rakyat
Indonesia (BRI) and Bank Bumi Daya (BBD)], three regional development banks
(RLE of Central Java, RDB of East Java and RDB of North Sumatera), four
private commercial banks (Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, Bank Umum Nasional and Bank
Central Asia), and two national development banks (BAPINDO and UPPINDO).
Eligibility criteria applied in selecting the participating financial
institutions are basically the same as for the Second Export Development
Project and the Industrial Restructuring Project. Apart from financial
viability, operational performance and the staff strength of the financial
institutions, their resource bases, branch networks, potential contributions
to a more competitive environment in the financial sector and experience in
handling term loans to small and medium industrial enterprises were also
considered. These thirteen financial institutions are considered suitable
intermediaries for the proposed project on the basis of their respective
strengths. As a group, they mobilize most of the savings in Indonesia, and
their large resource base account& for more than 75? of the gross assets of
all deposit money banks in Indonesia. The participating SCBs together with
the RDBs and PCBs have a well-established and broad branch network, which
enables them to reach out to small and medium-sized enterprises all over the
country. The inclusion of the mosz profitable and well-managed RDBs will
allow these institutions to serve as channels for Bank funds so that they can
further develop their managerial and technical skills and contribute to the
development of their respective regions more effectively, particularly in
assisting small and v. dium-sized enterprises. The four private banks selected
are large, well-mana,ad and financially sound; their inclusion helps promote
competition in the fi.ancial sector in line with the policy reforms of recent
yearn, and enables the project sponsors to have a wider choice of financial
institutions that can provide term credit. The two national development
finance banks are specialized in providing long-term finance to industrial
enterprises.
2.27     The policies, procedures and financial conditions of all these
financial institutions qualify them for participation under the proposed
project. All of them currently also operate small and medium scale lending
operations and have specialized staffs and organizations that would be used to
implement their allocation of the loan. For continued participation under the
project implementation period, these banks should maintain annual minimum
collection ratios on all subloans under the Bank's credit lines as agreed
during negotietions (Annex 3). The commercial banks and RDBs would have their
access to total Bank funds limited to a percentage of their net worth (paid-in
share capital plus reserves and retained earnings). Bank funds will include
disbursements and undisbursed commitments out of all the industrial credit
lines. For UPPINDO, a non-bank financial institution (NBFI), this limit is



- 20 -
inapplicable due to its emphasis on long-term lending, but UPPINDO would be
required to maintain a minimum long-term debt:equity ratio (Annex 3).
Assurances on PB eligibility and conditions for continued participation were
obtained at negotiations.
Investment and Credit Demand
2.28     The proposed project would provide investment capital totalling
US$179 million over a three-year commitment period for an estimated 700
individual subprojects requiring an average investment of US$255,000, of which
an average of 70Z or US$180,000 would be financtd.  Under an 80:20 split, with
the Bank financing US$144,000 and the individual PB financing the balance of
US$36,000. The projection takes into considerations the estimated number of
SMIE clients who would avail themselves of the project (less than 102 of the
over 10,000 SMIEs); the project's minimum and maximum subloan limits
(US$56,000 to US$525,000);3 the practical borrowing limits of the average S'i!E
borrower (operating assets of less than US$0.5 million); and the term-loan
processing capacity of the PBs. The size of the Bank loan for the credit
component is the consolidation of each PB's own estimate of its lending under
the SMIE project over the three-year commitment period, taking into
consideration the above criteria. The PBs' estimates are based on a pipeline
of identified SMIE projects totalling US$117 million (World Bank financing
share) and consisting of 663 subprojects as shown in Annex 2. As each PB
would pay commitment fees based on the undisbursed portion of its allocation
of the Bank loan, the estimates are conservative.
The Participating Banks
2.29     The Participating State Commercial Banks.  The four participating
SCBs in the proposed project account for 702 of the assets of the deposit
money banks in Indonesia. They operate under the guidelines of the Barking
Act of 1967 and a number of other legislative measures enacted in 1967/68 that
established them in their present form. The June 1983 financial sector
reforms (para. 1.18) had a particularly significant impact on all the SCBs:
they now have to mobilize a greater proportion of their resources at market
rates, instead of relying on BI funding, and to improve operational efficiency
to ensure profitability in a much more competitive environment. This
presented a formidable challenge to these large, complex and, hitherto, fairly
bureaucratic institutions, that had functioned more as agents of BI than as
fully independent financial institutions. The SCBs have moved rapidly,
however, to fulfill their new role, with most conducting comprehensive reviews
resulting in improved internal policies, operating procedures and staffing
policies. Results to date from these programs are encouraging.
2.30     One of the positive aspects of the SCBs' participation in the BI
priority credit program was that BI prompted and supported the SCBs in
establishing term-lending approval capabilities and internal loan review
3/ Including the PBs' portion of 202.



- 21 -
procedures. Loan applications are evaluated on the basis of comprehensive
appraisals, including full financia; analysis and examinations of proposals'
managerial and technical merits. Overall, both the subproject appraisal and
the supervision procedures of the SCBs are considered adequate for their
current term-lending operations.
2.31     The financial positions and performances of the SCBs are
satisfactory. Their assets and liabilities structures are reasonably matched.
Although BI and other government loans continue to account for a substantial
portion of the SCBs' resources, the importance of these loans has declined
over recent years, as the SCBs have enhanced their competitiveness in
mobilizing domestic savings.  The equity base of the SCBs is relatively small,
and it is important that it be improved. The Government recognizes that the
capital base of the SCBs needs to be strengthened. Under the financial sactor
reform package of October 1988, all banks and NBFIs are now allowed to
increase their capital through the issuance of new shares on the capital
market, in addition to increasing the equity participation by the existing
shareholders. Two positive developments in recent years have contributed to
improved SCB profitability: one, an improvement in their lending margins
reflecting the impact of deregulated interest rates; and two, a reduction in
personnel and other administrative expenses.  Recent efforts undertaken by the
SCBs to introduce operational efficiencies appear to be succeeding.
2.32     Evaluating the quality of the SCBs' loan portfolio is difficult.
Monitoring the aging of arrears is not a standard procedure within the SCBs
(although some of them are in the process of introducing this system). All
the SCBs, however, regularly set aside provisions to cover losses on their
respective loan portfolios and write off bad debts. As of end-1987, the SCBs'
combined provision for bad debts constituted 42 of their outstanding loan
portfolios, which was adequate. The SCBs' financial accounts are audited by
the Government's Financial and Development Supervisory Board (BPKP) which has
found them acceptable.
2.33     The Participating Regional Development Banks.  The history of the
regional development bank system, dates back to the 19509 when it was
introduced to serve as a channel of finance for the implementation of the
overall National Development Plan at the regional level. In light of this
objective, the RDBs differ from their commercial counterparts in a number of
ways. They are fully government-controlled, function as the fiscal agents of
the respective regions, and are required to assign priority to: (a) financing
of development activities; (b) lending to the economically weak group; (c)
financing infrastructure projects; (d) developing entrepreneurs' managerial
and technical skills; and (e) providing temporary equity financing. Besides
equity funds and deposits, the RDBs' major resource requirements have been
provided by BI for KIK/JMAP lending and various special purpose lending to
priority sectors. Lack of long-term resources has restricted the RDBs in
their term-lending operations. They are less constrained in their short-term
lending operations, due to the availability of government budgetary deposits,
and time and demand deposits. Therefore, the bulk of their lending operations
is short-term. Historically, they have functioned primarily as fiscal agents
for the regional governments.



- 22 -
2.34     Starting in the late 1970s, BI has been assisting a selected number of
RDBs by way of rediscount facilities on priority investments, term loans and
staff training. This RDB Upgrading Program was implemented by BAPINDO and
UPPINDO as BI's consultants. The three RDBs selected for participation under
the proposed project have benefited from BI Upgrading Program. They have also
sent their staff to the RPMUs under SEDP as local counterparts and had a number
of joint financing operati.ns with BAPINDO and UPPINDO. As a result, their
operational standards and staff capability have improved considerably. From
1985 to 1987, the assets of the RDB of Central Java increased 86Z, loan
portfolio 115Z and net profit 672 (Appendix 2).  The corresponding growth rates
for the RDB of East Java were 1142, 2852 and 79Z, and those for the RDB of
North Sumatera were 782, 972, and 122, respectively. Administrative expenses
as a percentage of average total assets were 4.1-4.3Z for RDB of Central Java,
5.2-6.5Z for RDB of East Java and 5.2-6.62 for RDB of North Sumatera. These
are high, especially those for RDB of East Java and RDB of North Sumatera. The
annual write-offs for bad debts ranged from 12 to 3.32 of the average loan
portfolio for the three RDBs during the past three years. Given the fact that
the cost of funds from BI and the regional governments was very low, the three
RDBs were able to earn a relatively high average spread, which was sufficient
to cover their high operating cost and large annual bad debt write-offs. In
accordance with BI'S scoring system which is based on the RDBs' financial
position, quality of assets and administrative ability, the three participating
RDBs are considered sound or fairly sound. It is clear, however, that their
operational efficiency needs to be greatly increased, to reduce their
administrative costs and improve their loan portfolio, so that they can compete
in a more competitive financial market. Each RDB has been continuously
implementing comprehensive annual training programs and these programs will be
expanded and accelerated under the project (para. 2.40). With increased staff
capability, the three RDBs participating under the proposed project will be
able to strengthen and expand their term-lending operations, and play a more
significant role in the development of their respective regions.
2.35     The Participating Private Commercial Banks.   Bank Niaga, Bank Duta,
Bank Umum Nasional and Bank Central Asia are four of the ten private commercial
banks operating in Indonesia that have been licensed to deal in foreign
exchange for a number of years.   These four banks were selected for
participation in the project on the basis of their financial performance and
operational efficiency.   Like all commercial banks in Indonesia, they are
strictly and regularly supervised by BI.   Overall, Bl's supervision is
primarily aimed at ensuring that the banks are sound and comply with the
general banking regulations.   In addition to ensuring that the banks' arnual
accounts are audited by independent, reputable auditors, BI makes its own
independent checks.   The designation of a bank as a "foreign exchange bank"
indicates that the bank's management, financial structure and banking practices
are considered superior by EI.   During the past three years. Bank Niaga's
total assets increased 1802 (from Rp 279 billion at end-1984 to Rp 781 billion
at end-1987); its loan portfolio increased at the same rate and its net profit
by 134Z.   The corresponding growth rates were 802, 1222 and 52, respectively
for Bank Duta, 1602, 1472 and 214Z for Bank Umum Nasional and 2282, 228Z
and 442 for BCA.   Bank Duta's paid-in share capital was increased from
Rp 13.5 billion to Rp 32.5 billion in December 1988, resulting in a net worth
in excess of its proposed access to Bank credit lines. The aggregate



- 23 -
allocations under all Bank loans amounting to US$21.5 million, including
US$2.5 million under the proposed project, represent 60Z of its total equity
as of December 31, 1988.
2.36     The Participating Non-Bank Financial Institution.  UPPINDO was
established in 1972 by BI and the Netherlands Finance Company for Developing
Countries to provide loans, equity finance and technical assistance to
commercially viable projects. It is a small, well-managed institution with
total assets corresponding to only llZ of BAPINDO's, as of end-1987. BI has
been UPPINDO's most important funding source. In 1987-88, UPPINDO's assets
increased sharply, almost all financed with new debts. As of June 30, 1988,
UPPINDO's long-term debt:equity ratio reached 6.3 to 1. After a bond issue
was floated in August 1988, the ratio increased to approximately 7.3 to 1.
Under the proposed project, UPPINDO, as a NBFI, must maintain a long-term
debt:equity ratio of not more than 7 to 1. In February 1989, BI. strengthened
UPPINDO's equity base by providing a subordinated loan amounting to Rp 38.3
billion which will be treated as a part of equity and is acceptable to the
Bank. The debt:equity ratio has now dropped to 3:1.
2.37     Bank Pembanaunan Indonesia (BAPINDO).  BAPINDO, the largest
development bank (100Z government-owned) in Indonesia, has continuously
received technical assistance and financial support (with five loans/credits
totalling US$359 million) from the Bank Group since the late sixties. Partly
because of the economic downturn, and to a large extent due to its
institutional weakness particularly in portfolio management, BAPINDO's loan
portfolio deteriorated and its profitability declined sharply during 1982-85,
with loans affected by arrears reaching 502 of the portfolio and net profit
dropping to only 0.12 of total assets in 1985 (Appendix 2). The long-term
viability of BAPINDO was clearly at risk. In order to deal with the
situation, the Government, BAPINDO and the Bank reached agreement on a number
of measures involving BAPINDO's organizational streamlining, capital
restructuring and portfolio rehabilitation. These measures the implementation
of which began in 1985, were: (a) in early 1986, the Government took specific
measures to bolster BAPINDO's capital structure by contributing additional
equity and restructuring its borrowings from official sources; (b) portfolio
rehabilitation covering 71 projects was carried out during 1986-87 with the
assistance of external consultants; and (c) a reorganization of BAPINDO's
improved management and operating procedures was implemented beginning
mid-1987. A large-scale training program was also initiated. The Bank
supervision mission that visited BAPINDO in December 1988 concluded that the
measures taken by BAPINDO appear to be yielding satisfactory results and have
set BAPINDO back on the path to a firm financial footing. However, BAPINDO
should keep up the momentum to improve its performance further, especially
with regard to loan collection and reduction of arrears. Therefore, BAPINDO
will participate under the proposed project with the understanding, agreed at
negotiations, that it meets the financial and operational criteria shown in
Annex 3. In addition, BAPINDO has appointed a Senior Advisor and submit has
agreed to submit its Development Strategy and Implementation Plan to the Bank
no later than March 31, 1990.



- 24 -
Technical Assistance to the Particilating Banks
2.38     The project with its credit component to 13 PBs will generate
approximately 700 subloans, each requiring se?arate records of commitment.
disbursement, cancellation and repayment. Each free limit subloan
authorization sent to the Bank will require a two-to-three page appraisal
summary. All above free limit subloans applications for approval will require
a full appraisal report of 10 to 12 pages. In addition, the PBs will be
required periodically to submit data on subloan arrears and collection rates
under the project. All of the above represents, for many of the PBs, a
substantial change in their loan evaluation and administrative procedures.
Under the project, an internationally recruited Appraisal Advisor would be
stationed at LPPI to train and advise PB staff on appraisal and loan
administration procedures to ensure the timely and accurate processing of all
subloans and other project information. The advisor would not approve or
disapprove subloans, functions that would be conducted by the Bank. The
Appraisal Advisor and a small staff of one or two locally hired staff would be
financed by the Japanese Grant Facility. The Appraisal Advisor would:
(i) pa:ticipate in the planned project orientation seminars (para 2.40);
(ii) plan and execute other training programs at LPPI for PB staff; (iii) set
up monitoring systems for the project; and (iv) monitor subloan applications
to evaluate progress on the credit component and training needs for the PB
staff.
Eliaibility Criteria for Enterprises and Subproiects
2.39     The PBs agreed at negotiations to use the following criteria for
their selection of enterprises and subprojects under the project.
For enterprisess
(a)  the enterprises would be engaged in manufacturing industry, agro-
based industry or related services (including transportation, cold
storage, etc.) having from 20 to 150 full time employees and
operating assets (excluding land and inventories) of less than
US$500,000 (approximately Rp 850 million); and
(b) there would be no restriction with respect to enterprise ownership.
All enterprises regardless of ownership (indigenous, non-indigenous,
domestic and jointly foreign-domestically owned) would be eligible
for financing under the proposed project.
For subprojects:
(a) the investment would be financially viable, and above free limit
subprojects should show financial rates of return at least equivalent
to the PBs' six-month deposit rate;
(b) at least 202 of a subproject's total investment cost would be
financed with the project sponsor's own funds;
(c) the maximum amount of the subloan portion financed by the Bank would
be US$300,000 (approximately Rp 510 million) for fixed asset
investment and up to an additional 402 would be allowed for permanent



- 25 -
working capital. The minimum subloan amount financed by the Bank
and the PBs would be US$56,000 (approximately Rp 95 million).
Subprojects requiring working capital loans only are ineligible
for financing under the proposed project;
(d) any funds received by an enterprise from the project's TA Fund for
consultant's services in preparing subproject proposals would be
refunded by the PB to the TA Fund out of the proceeds of the
enterprise's subloan; and
(e) environmental aspects would be as outlined in para. 2.55.
Proiect Orientation Seminars and Training Program for RDB Staff
2.40     LPPI has agreed to host a two- to three-day seminar for PB staff to
take place after loan negotiations. The seminar would introduce the project
to PB personnel, explain the criteria and procedures to be used in loan
appraisal and authorization, and review the reporting requirements for the
PBs. A similar orientation seminar for potential service providers would be
organized as soon as possible after project start-up. This seminar would
explain the project's services, participation requirements and
pre-qualification procedures to potential service providers. LPPI has also
prepared a detailed training plan for the three RDBs in the project that would
be implemented during the life of the project. The RDB training would focus
on strengthening these institutions' capacity in term-loan appraisal.
portfolio management and management information systems. This training
program was agreed with the Bank during negotiations.
D. Overall Proiect Costs and Financing
2.41     Total project cost including contingencies is estimated at US$193.3
million including taxes and duties of about US$10.0 million equivalent and a
foreign exchange requirement of US$103.5 million or 54Z of the total. A
summary of the project costs is given in Table 2.4.
2.42     The cost of the investment credit component is US$179.0 million and
represents the projected volume of SMIE subprojects to be financed by PBs
during 1989-93. The foreign exchange requirement of the investment credit
component is based on the average for term investment subprojects for SMIEs in
Indonesia. The costs of the technical assistance component is estimated at
US$13.6 million and is based on the requirements of implementing the
enterprise level technical assistance and training needs of the project. The
cost eotimates for experts/consultants are based on the Bank's experience in
similar projects.
2.43     In total, the project includes 13 staff years of expatriate
consultants and 162 staff years of local consulting assistance. In addition
to the financing of consultant costs, the technical assistance component
includes funding for incremental operating costs for LPPI, the host
institution for the component.  Following the usual practice, the credit
component does not include any contingency. Price contingencies amounting to
US$0.7 million have been included for the technical assistance component.



- 26 -
Price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of an estimated annual
increase in local prices of 92 during 1989-90 and 5.22 thereafter, and in
foreign prices of 5.3Z during 1989-90 and 4.12 thereafter.
Table 2.4:  TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
(US$ Millions)
Foreign
As 2 Of
Local     Foreign     Total      Total
Investment Credit Component             79.0        100.0      179.0        56
Technical Assistance Component          10.4          3.2       13.6        24
Appraisal Advisor                   0.2          0.6        0.8        75
Regional Representatives            1.0          --         1.0        --
TA Unit                             2.1         2.1         4.2       50
TA Unit Operating Overhead          0.2          --         0.2       --
Vehicles and Equipment              --           0.1        0.1      100
TA Revolving Fund, Training
and Studies                     1.8         0.4         2.2       18
SMIE Client Participation           5.1         --          5.1       --
Total Baseline Cost                     89.4        103.2      192.6        54
Price Contingencies                 0.4         0.3         0.7       43
Total Proiect Costs                     89.8        .03.5      193.3        54
2.44     The financing plan for each component would be:
For the US$179 million investment credit component, SMIE owners would
contribute about US$54 million of their own funds to provide
required equity, averaging approximately 302 of total subproject
costs. The balance of the funding would be provided as loans on the
basis of 802 (US$100 million) from the Bank, and 202 (US$25 million)
from the PBs. The Bank loan would cover the estimated 562 foreign
exchange cost.
For the technical assistance component, SMIEs applying for assistance
would contribute US$5.1 million, equivalent to about 372 of the
overall costs of the component. The project's share in the financing
of individual, enterprise-level consultant assignments would be
limited to the lesser of US$10,000 or 602 of the cost of each
assignment. The JGF would establish the TA Fund (US$1.6 million)
that would provide the project's share of funding for enterprise
level consulting assistance on a revolving basis. When a SMIE that
has been advanced funds from the TA Fund for subproject feasibility
studies receives investment financing under the project, the advanced
funds are repaid to the TA Fund for further use. The JGF would also
provide US$0.9 million for the Appraisal Advisor and staff at LPPI



- 27 -
and US$0.6 million for training and studies. A grant and loan
totalling US$6.1 million) from the Netherlands Government would
finance: LPPI's incremental operating costs for hosting the TA
function; regional representatives expenses; and all costs of the
expatriate consultants and necessary vehicles and equipment.
2.45     Overall, the Bank loan (US$100.0 million) would finance 52? of the
project costs and 97? of the estimated foreign exchange requirements (Table
2.5). The SMIE owners would provide US$59.1 million or 302 of the project
cost for required equity funding and for technical assistance. The PBs would
provide US$25.0 million or 13? of total project costs for subproject
financing. The balance of the project costs of US$9.2 million would be
provided by a grant from Japan and a combination of a loan and grant from the
Netherlands for the technical assistance component (para. 2.22).
Table 2.5: FINANCING PLAN
(USS Million)
X Of
Local     Foreign      Total     Total
Investment Credit Component             79.0        100.0      179.0        93
World Bank                          --         100.0      100.0        52
SMIE Owners' Equity                54.0          --        54.0       28
PBs                                25.0          --        25.0        13
Technical Assistance ComRonent          10.8          3.5       14.3         7
SMIE Owners' Equity                 5.1          --         5.1         2
Japan Grant Facility                2.0          1.1        3.1         2
Netherlands Grant and Loan          3.7          2.4        6.1         3
Total                                   89.8        103.5      193.3       100
World Bank                          --         100.0      100.0        52
SMIE Owner's Equity                59.1          --        59.1       30
PBs                                25.0          --        25.0        13
Japan Grant Facility                2.0          1.1        3.1         2
Netherlands Grant and Loan          3.7          2.4        6.1         3
E. Features of the Loan
2.46     Lending and Allocation Arrangements.  The Bank loan of US$100.0
million would be lent to the Republic of Indonesia on standard country terms.
The MOF would act as the Government's agent. A separate project account would
be established at BI (on behalf of MOF) to record: (a) the channeling of the
Bank loan to the individual participating institutions; and (b) debt-service
payments received from them.  The Government would allocate the loan proceeds
to the participating institutions as follows:



- 28 -
(a)  at negotiations, each of the PBs agreed to subscribe to a
portion of the loan's credit component, based on the funds
it expects to commit over a three-ye;.r period and on which it would
pay the commitment fee, such that the credit component portion of
the loan is fully subscribed. (These allocations could .ater be
adjusted as per para. 2.49).  The proposed init1ol allocation is
shown in Table 2.6.
Table 2.6t INITIAL ALLOCATION OF LOAN'S CREDIT
COMPONENT PROCEEDS AMONG THE PARTICIPATING BANKS
(USS Millions)
Participating Bank                               Amount
State Commercial Banks
BBD                                          10.0
BDN                                          13.5
Bank BNI                                     15.3
BRI                                          20.0
Total State Commercial Banks                 58.5
Private Banks
Bank Niaga                                    3.0
Bank Duta                                     2.5
Bank Umum Nasional                            3.0
Bank Central Asia                            10.0
Total Private Banks                          18.5
Regional Development Banks
RDB of East Java                              2,5
RDB of Central Java                           3.0
RDB of North Sumatera                         2.5
Total Reeional Development Banks              8.0
National Development Banks
BAPINDO                                      10.0
UPPINDO                                       5.0
Total National Development Banks             15.0
Total Allocation                            100.0
(b) Funds to the state commercial banks, regional development banks, and
BAPINDO would be lent by MOF through Subsidiary Loan Agreements
(SLAs) with each institution. Funds to the private banks and UPPINDO
would be lent in the first instance by the Government to BI, through
a separate SLA between MOF and BI. BI would then relend these funds
to the private banks and UPPINDO through respective On-lending Loan
Agreements (OLAs) between BI and the respective PBs. Loan proceeds
onlent to the PBs would be for a fixed term of 15 years including



- 29 -
three years of grace. At negotiations, the Government and the Bank
reviewed the draft SLAs between (i) MOF and SCBs, RDBs and BAPINDO,
(ii) MOF and BI and (iii) draft OLAs between BI and the private banks
and UPPINDO. All PBs and LPPI would sign a Project Agreement with
the World Bank outlining their obligations in implementing the
proposed project. Signing of the SLA between HOF and BT, and between
MOF and at least two SCEs or BAPINDO (on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank) are conditions of loan effectiveness.
Signing of an SLA/OLA (on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank) is a condition of disbursement for each PB. The PBs would use
the loan proceeds to finance eligible SMIE subprojects as defined in
para. 2.39. The final date for the submission of requests for
subproject financing is June 30, 1994.
Lending Terms
2.47     Interest Rate.  The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk
for the credit component. The PBs would pay a variable interest rate equal to
the weighted average cost of their deposits (excluding noninterest-bearing
deposits from Government and Government-owned entities). Based on September
1988 data, this arrangement would result in a relending rate to the PBs of
about 13.6Z p.a.. which is highly positive in real terms. The rate would be
adjusted every six months and would be subject to a floor equal to the rate on
the Bank loan plus a minimum spread of 1.752. (See Annex 4 for the formula.)
The Government would assume the direct foreign exchange risk against a fee
built into the differential between the Bank's prevailing interest rate and
the proposed onlending  ate to the PBs (currently about 61).  Since deposit
rates in Indonesia are narket-determined and capital flows are generally
unrestricted. the proposed formula would indirectly include a variable element
to cover the foreign exchange risk as perceived by the currency markets; the
difference between the Bankz's lending rate and the relending rate to the PBs
charged by Government is therefore considered an acceptable premium for
bearing the foreign exchange risk. BI would be responsible for calculating
the onlending rate to the PBs on the basis of the most recent data available
to it. At negotiations, the Government agreed to these proposed interest rate
provisions, as well as to the method and frequency of interest rate
calculations.
2.48     On-lending Terms.  The amount financed of each subproject would be
split: 80Z Bank funds and 202 PB funds. The proceeds of the Bank loan, along
with complementary financing out of the PBs' own resources, would be on-lent
to the final borrowers by the PBs at market rates. Since the on-lending rate
set by the PBs will reflect their costs plus a profit margin, the premium for
foreign exchange risk paid to the Government by the PBs would be fully passed
on to the final borrowers. Present indications are that the interest rates to
the final borrowers initially would be in the range of 18-21X. The maximum
term for subloans, including grace period, will be 12 years. Rollover funds
(i.e., the repayments on Bank-financed subloans) would be relent by the PBs
for similar SMIE investments. Agreement on these on-lending terms were
reached during negotiations.



- 30 -
2.49     Commitment Fee and Commitment Arrangements.  Each of the PBs would be
responsible for paying to the Government the commitment fee equal to 0.75? of
the undisbursed portion of the loan to which it has subscribed. However, to
encourage the PBs to promote SMIE investments and to facilitate utilization of
the loan proceeds, the Government would have the right, 18 months after the
loan became effective and after consultation with the Bank, to reallocate
among those PBs that had fully committed their respective initial allocations
(and which still had subprojects eligible for financing out of the Bank loan)
any remaining uncommitted amounts. From the date of such a reallocation, the
PBs would be obligated to pay the commitment fee on the undisbursed amount of
their respective new allocations; there would be no retroactive adjustment of
commitment fee obligations. However, should the Government and the PBs so
agree, voluntary reallocations of loan amounts among the PBs could take place
prior to the expiration of the aforesaid 18 month period; in such cases,
commitment fee obligations would be appropriately adjusted.
Maximum and Minimum Subloan Size, Free Limit and Subproiect Review
2.50     The maximum amount of the investment portion of each subloan financed
by the Bank would be US$300,000 denominated in rupiah (approximately Rp 510
million).  In addition, complementary incremental working capital, up to a
maximum of 40X of the investment amount, would be allowed.  Thus, with the 202
PB participation, the maximum size of a subloan (including investment and
working capital) could reach a total of US$525,000 (approximately Rp 890
million). A minimum subloan size (Bank plus PB portion) of US$56,000
(approximately Rp 95 million) would apply. Annex 5 shows the free-limit and
maximum subloan amounts expressed in rupiah and dollars. A subloan free limit
of US$210,000 (approximately Rp 360 million) of the investment portion
financed by the Bank would apply. A subproject summary would be required to
be submitted to the Bank for authorization for each below free-limit subloan.
For subprojects above the free limit (i.e., the Bank-financed portion of
investment exceeds US$210,000), the PB would submit a full appraisal report
covering all aspects of the subproject. The first two subprojects of each PB,
irrespective of size, would be treated as above free-limit subprojects and
would be submitted with a full appraisal by the PB to the Bank for
authorization. Based on the subloan size limits described above, it is
expected that the credit component would finance about 700 subprojects in a
variety of subsectors. It is expected that the Bank would review about 26Z of
the subprojects amounting to about US$48 million of the Bank loan (482 of the
credit component). Agreements were reached at negotiations on the subproject
maximums and free-limit arrangements.
Procurement
2.51     Efficient procurement in the private sector in Indonesia is ensured
through the highly competitive market operating in an open economy where
sophisticated commercial purchasers solicit various bids to obtain reasonable
quotes. Although the PBs do not have formal procurement requirements, they do
require clients to justify their procurement decisions, often requiring them
to provide comparative price quotations. Under the proposed project, the PBs
would require qualified enterprises to demonstrate that the procurement



- 31 -
procedures adopted by them are appropriate. The PBs would also ensure that
the goods and services would be purchased at a reasonable price, account being
taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery, efficiency and
reliability of goods, their suitability for the proposed investments and the
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts, and, in the case of
services, of thei, quality and the competence of the parties renderirg them.
These procedures are consistent with principles for Bank financing through
financial intermediaries and ensure that procurement is economic and
efficient. Assets financed by the Bank would be procured no more than 90 days
prior to the receipt by the Bank of the withdrawal application. This was
agreed at negotiations. Each subproject appraisal reportlappraisal summary
would discuss how the proposed investment's goods and services are to be
procured and confirm that these procedures are acceptable to the PB.
Procurement of equipment and materials under the Japanese Grant Facility, for
which the Bank would act as administrator, estimated to cost less than
US$100,OOC shall be procured under contracts solicited from at least three
suppliers. Consultants financed under the Japanese Grant Facility will be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
and on the basis of 'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency."
Disbursement
2.52     For the credit component, the Bank loan would be disbursed against
80? of the amount financed, which is equivalent to the estimated foreign
exchange cost. Statements of Expenditures (SOE) would be used for all
subloans; full supporting documentation would be retained by the PBs and made
available for Bank inspection during supervision missions.
2.53     The standard Industrial Development Finance loan disbursement profile
for the Asia region was used to prepare the disbursement schedule (Annex 6).
The closing date of the loan would be June 30, 1995.
Auditing and Reporting
2.54     The financial accounts  and SOE documentation of the state-owned
commercial banks would be audited by BPKP, which is acceptable to the Bank.
Auditing of the financial accounts and SOE documentation of the private banks,
the regional development banks, BAPINDO and UPPINDO would be done by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The PBs would submit to the Bank
the reports of their respective external auditors (ir. English) no later than
nine months after the end of their respective fiscal years. These audit
arrangements were confirmed at negotiations. The PBs and LPPI would be
required to submit semi-annual progress reports, acceptable to the Bank,
covering their respective operations under the project.
Environment
2.55     Environmental aspects of the subprojects to be financed under the
project will be addressed as follows:



- 32 -
(a)  For subprojects, the facilities would be designed with due regard to
environmental parameters, such as the use of clean and efficient
technologies and the recycling and reuse of wastes. New plants would
be located with due regard to their surroundings' ability to
assimilate the expected waste discharge without adverse environmental
impact.
(b)  All above-free-limit subprojects would be subject to environmental
impact assessments, and subloan agreements would include assurances
that their designs and operations would be in accordance with the
recommendations of those assessments. For enterprises seeking
financing for above-free-limit subloans that are not n>o in
compliance with relevant standards, a survey of the current situation
will be taken and a plan will be prepared showing how, and according
to what timetable, the plant will be brought into compliance. This
plan will form part of the subloan applications.
(c) For all subloans, a monitoring system would be established by the
Appraisal Advisor, in collaboration with the TA Unit Team Leader,
which would permit random physical inspections of the pollution
control systems utilized by subprojects on an ex-post basis.
Specific subsectors prone to pollution, such as tanneries and metal
recycling plants, would be singled out for special treatment. The
random physical inspections would be conducted by the project's
Industrial Engineer in the TA Unit and a report of his findings will
be incorporated into the Semi-Annual Project Implementation Report.
F. Proiect Benefits and Risks
Benefits
2.56     The direct benefits of the proposed project would include the
efficient development of the dynamic SMIE segment of the industrial sector
which will result in increased manufacturing output and employment. About 700
subprojects with a total investment cost of US$179 million would be financed
by the proposed loan and, based on past experience, are likely to provide
approximately 66,000 new jobs and over US$270 million per year in value added.
The proposed project would also contribute towards the needed development of
the local consulting industry by establishing a link between enterprises
needing assistance and qualified local consultants. The efficiency of the
financial system would also be enhanced by the proposed project, by augmenting
the availability of term investment funds and by requiring PBs to undertake
complementary term transformation for SMIE investment.
Risks
2.57     The principle risk is that the credit demand envisaged would not
materialize. However, the size of the credit component is based on each PB's
assessment of its forecast SMIE lending, in most cases, backed up by
identified subprojects and, as each PB has agreed to pay commitment charges



- 33 -
based on its allotment, the projected lending targets are conservative.
Another risk is that the number of SMIEs, that would utilize the TA component
services, may be below expectations. This risk is offset by the PBs' internal
regulations requiring that larger subloans be accompanied by an enterprise-
sponsored investment proposal, ensuring substantial demand for the TA
services. A risk, which is endemic to credit and technical assistance
projects, is that the project's implementation would be delayed due to: (a)
PB staff being unfamiliar with subproject eligibility criteria and subloan
processing procedures; and (b) the TA Unit not being in place soon after
effectiveness. This risk is mitigated by specific measures to be taken at the
onset of the project: (a) the Bank would conduct a seminar, prior to
effectiveness, on procedures for subproject approval and processing; (b) the
signing of all JGF-and GON-related channelling documentation would be a
'ondition of effectiveness for the Ba;.k' loan; and (c) the appointment of the
Appraisal Advisor and the TA Unit Team Leader would be no later than October
1, 1989.
III. AGIREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.1      Agreements were reached at negotiations between:
(a)  the Government and the Bank as administrator for the JGF for the
partial funding of the TA component (para. 2.22);
(b)  the Governments of Indonesia and the Netherlands on the financing of
the TA component (para. 2.22);
{c)  the Government, LPPI and the Bank on: the Financial Arrangement
passing the JGF funds to LPPI (para. 2.22);
(d)  the Bank and LPPI on:
(i) the Statement of Objectives, staffing and reporting covering
the execution and operation of the TA Unit (paras. 2.22 and
2.24);
(ii)  the memorandum of understanding between LPPI &nd BI on the
regional representatives of the project (para. 2.22); and
(iii) the training program for the RDBs (para. 2.40).
(e)  the Bank, LPPI and GON on tendering procedures for TA Unit expatriate
experts (para. 2.23); and
(f)  the Bank and LPPI on a schedule for appointing project-related staff
and experts (para. 2.23).
(g)  the Bank and LPPI on a preliminary list of candidates for the
Appraisal Advisor position (para. 2.23), the functions of the
Appraisal Advisor (para. 2.38) and the submission of periodic
implementation reports (para. 2.24);



- 34 -
(h) the Bank and the PBs ons
(i)  the maintenance of a minimum collection ratio (para. 2.27);
Cii) for the SCBs, RDBs and PCBs, the limiting of their access to World
Bank funds to a percentage of their net worth (2.27);
(iii) for UPPTNDO, the maintenance of a long-term debt:equity ratio
ceiling (para. 2.27);
(iv) for BAPINDO, performance criteria for its initial and continued
eligibility and the appointment of a Senior Advisor and the
adoption of a Development Strategy and Implementation Plan
(para. 2.37);
(v) the eligibility criteria for enterprises subprojects funded under
the project (para. 2.39);
(vi) the on-lending terms to subborrowers (para. 2.48);
(vii) the use of rollover funds for SMIE subprojects (para. 2.48);
(viii)  the free limit, maximum subloan amo-int and the PB-World Bank split
of subloan financing (para. 2.50);
(ix) assets financed by the Bank subject to '90 days rule' (para.
2.51);
(x) the arrangements for annual audits and semi-annual reports (para.
2.54); and
(xi) subproject environmental analysis arrangements (para. 2.55).
(i) the Government and the Bank on the allocation of the Bank loan to the
PBs (para. 2.46) and the lending terms to the PBs (para. 2.47);
3.2      The conditions of loan effectiveness are:
(a)  the signing of the Financial Arrangements between BI and the
Government channelling the GON and JGF funds to BI (para. 2.22);
(b)  the signing of the Financial Arrangements between LPPI and BI
channelling the GON and JGF funds to LPPI (para. 2.22);
(c)  the signing of the SLA between BI and the Government (para. 2.46);
and
(d)  the signing of at least two SLAs of the SCBs and the Government
(para. 2.46).
3.3      The conditions of disbursement are:
(a)  for all PBs, the maintenance of agreed minimum financial performance
criteria (para. 2.27 and 2.37)
(b)  for each SCB and BAPINDO, the signing of an SLA, satisfactory to the
Bank, with the MOF (para. 2.46); and
(c)  for each private bank, UPPINDO, and RDBs, the signing of an OLA,
satisfactory to the Bank, with BI (para. 2.46).
3.4      Subject to the above conditions, the project would be suitable for a
loan of US$100 million to the Republic of Indonesia for 20 years, including a
grace period of five years, at the standard variable rate.



DSONESIA
SMALL ANI MEDDIM PSUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Tochrical Assistawne Couoas  Cost Table
Year 1          Year 2           Year a          Year 4                 Totals
cost it.                                   rCM-  FT X       L C.            L.C.    F.Xr    L.C.   FX X        .C.    F X.       Total
Appraisal Advisor
Appraisal Advisor and Staff                 76     226       75     225       W      150       -       -     200         800      800
Technical Assistance Activities at 8I
Regional Ropresontatives                   260        -     265       -     260        -     2 W       -    1000           -     1000
Technical Assistance Activities at LPPI
Expatriate personnel                     64     665       64     665      64     665        -      W      192       2045      2317
JndonesTan personnel                    475       -     476        -     476       -      475       _    1900          -      1900
Vehicles and equipment                    -     117        -       -       -        -       -       -       -         117      117
Operating costs                          60       -       as       -      60        -      60             240           -      240
Technical Assistnce Fund /a
Direct technical assistance             S50       W      460      So     Wo        Ue     250      60    1400         200     1600
Training                                100      26      100      25      6o      26       40      26     300        100       400
Studies                                  25      26       S0      s       26      25        0       0     116        100       200
Total Costa                        1399    1107    1524    1016    1834      916    1076      125    5332       3162
Combined Total Costs                   2506            2659             2249            1200              8494
/a Excludes portion paid directly to consultant by the onterprise.
c: TACCT/011189/HUr



-36 -
Annex 2
.  a 3     . Z e 03 .   9 > @ * 2 "   
i              0 i         g:   r e * Z w t e * 0 3 A
i   R r   S Di # a a 9 s a      a   pi
B!          aSl,          
V   V   ii
'Ii                          0       
V s j            no detail furnished
00000 1            C4U
.r. u tj #^ 8.- 300803.     0
~~~ ~no detail furnished               
SX   .   i       _     * -ewo~~~~~-  .4a
no detail furnished
U                         '~~E 
M~9                          4                I g 
4~ ~ ~~                  4 ottalfrise   
i                                           ^                                      3



- 37 -
Annex 3
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Propoged Participating Bank Performance Criteria for Initial and
Contlnued Eliaibility
Minimum
Particlpating Bank Category           Performance Criteroa for Withdrawal
1.   Commercial and Regional BankS  1/     _  Collection rat  2/ on Bank lidustrial
crodit lines not7less than 80X.
- Accesa to Bank funds limited to Its not
worth (paid-in capital plus r eerveo and
undistributed retained earnings). Bank
funds would Include disburseente and
undisbureed coamitments of Bank
industrial loans.
2.   Non-Bank Financial Institutions 8/   -  Collection rate 2/ on Bank Industrial
credit lines notless than 80X.
- Long-term debt to equity ratio not to
excee- seven to one.
S.   Development Banks 4/                  -  Collection rotio 2/ not less than 72.5%
on Its loan portfolio up to March 1,
190.
- Collection ratio 2/ not less than 77.53
on Its loan portfollo after March 1,
1990.
-  Loan arrears ratio _/ of 7.6X or below.
- Debt service cover ratio 6/ not lose
than 1.26 times for 1989 *nd every
fi'cai year thereafter.
-  Interest cover ratio 3/ not loe  than
1.6 times for 1989 and every fiscal year
thereafter.
IBNI 48, BON, BRI, BBD, Bank Nilgo, Bank Duta, Bank Umum Nasional, BCA, ROB
of East Java, RDB of Centrol Java, RDB of North Sumatera.
3/  Collection Ratio.  Total cash collections In the last 12 months as* 
percentage of past due. at the start of the period plus billings of current
duov net of amounts rescheduled.
V/   UPPINDO
4J BAPINDO
/  Arrears Ratio.  Arrears of principal and lnterest ovor three months
including *11 arrears of interest irrespeclvo of whether booked as income
or not, as a percentage of total loans outstanding.
i/ Debt Service Cover Ratio. Cash generated by operations (gross cash Income
lose cash adminlisrative and genoral expenses and income tax) plus cash
collections (principal only), plus sale of Investments divided by the sum
of loan repayments plus Interest on borrowings.
!/   Interest Cover Ratio.  Cash generated by operations (gross cash Income le
administrative *nd general expenses and Income tax) divided by total
interest on borrowinos.



- 38 -                        Annex 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Formula for Calculation of Relending Rate from the Government to
Participating Banks
1.        The interest rate payable by participating banks (PBs) to the
Government on Bank loan funds will be a variable rate per annum equal to the
average weighted interest cost of the PBs' (excluding BAPINDO and UPPINDO)"
loanable funds arising out of their customer deposits (i.e., excluding free
funds from the government and parastatal agencies) over a six-month period.
This rate will be determined according to the following formula and adjusted
every six months or such other period of time to be determined by the
Government in consultation with the Bank:2/
t 8 6                                -
I   dlI6   z (T ) + r! (St)    + rt (MD      )
l  X + St + Dt   (RT + R t + R t)
t = 1~~~t 
Definitions
t    -    the last day of each of the most recent six months prior to an
Interest Period for which BI has consolidated data on the deposit
base of the PBs.
1/     In this formula, PBs do not include BAPINDO and UPPINDO;
however, the resultant interest rate is applied to these
two PBs.
2/     In practice, the interest rate is readily obtained by BI
using existing worksheets such as those used for the EDP
II and consists of summing the interest and average
balances of each PB's demand, savings and time deposits.



- 39 -                          Annex 4
Page 2
D
rt
rt  =    interest rate payable on PBs' demand deposits, at time t
T
rtT= interest rate payable PBs' time deposits, at time t
S
rt = interest rate payable on PBs' saving deposits, at time t
Dt        the amount of PBs' demand deposits at time t
Tt   =    the amount of PBs' time deposits, at time t
St   =    the amount of PBs' saving deposits, at time t
MDt  =    min4imum average balance of PBs' demand deposits outstanding during
month immediately preceding tame t
T
Rt
- =    reserves on time deposits of PBs, at time t
Rt
G    reserves on savings deposits of PBs, at time t
RD
= =    reserves on demand deposits of PBs, at time t
I    5    interest rate applicable on Subsidiary Loan (from the Borrower to
all PBs) for each interest period.
2.        Notwithstanding the above cost-of-funds formula, the relending rate
will not be less than the interest rate on the Loan plus a margin of 1.75Z.



- 40 -                          Annex 5
IDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Free Limit and Maximum Subloan Amounts
PB                 Bank                   Total
Portion               Portion
(million)* ('000)    (million)* ('000)    (million)* ('000)
Rn   USS   RD  MSSRp          USS
Maximum
Investment          127         75        510        300         637      375
W.C.                 51         30        204        120         255      150
Total               178        105        714        420         892      525
Free Limit
Investment           88         52        357        210         445      262
W.C.                 36         21        143         84         179      105
Total               124         73        500        294         624      367
* Approximate rupiah equivalent at Rp 1,700 G US$1.00



- 41 -
Annex 6
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDUIM  NDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Estimated Cumulative Disbursements of the Provosed Loan
(USS million)
Bank fiscal                      Total estimated cumulative disbursements la
year/semester                    Amount                                Percent
FY90
First                           1.9                                    1.9
S,econd                         5.7                                    5.7
FY91
First                          14.2                                   14.2
Second                         27.4                                   27.4
FY92
First                          42.2                                   42.2
Second                         53.6                                   53.6
FY93
First.                         71.7                                   71.7
Second                         81.7                                   81.7
FY94
First                          89.4                                   89.4
Second                         95.0                                   95.0
FY95
First                          98.4                                   98.4
Second                        100.0                                  100.0
/a Standard disbursement profile for IDF projects in the Asia Region.



- 42 -                  Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Documents Available in the Prolect File
A. SMIE Sector Working Paper
The Manufacturing Industry and Industrial Finance in Indonesia
with Special Reference to the SMIE Sector
B. SMIE Technical Assistance Working Paner
The Technical Assistance component of the SMIE Project
C.  The Financial Intenmediaries of the SMIE Proiect
1.   General
Bank Indonesia: - Annu.l Report 1986/87
- Org-nization Chart, June 30, 1988 of
Co,ierative and Small Credit Department
2.   The Four Participating State-owned Commercial Banks (SCBs)
BDN
Annual Report 1986
Audit Report 1987 (Bahasa Indonesia)
BNI 1946
Annual Reports 1986, 1987
Audit Report 1987
BRI
Annual Report 1986
Audit Report 1987 (Bahasa Indonesia)
BD
Annual Reports 1985, 1986
Audit Report 1987 (Bahasa Indonesia)



- 43 -                      Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
3. The Regional Development Banks (RDBs)
RDB - Central Java
Annual Report (April 1, 1986 - March 31, 1987) (Bahasa
Indonesia)
General Information (Report)
Organization Chart, June 30, 1988
RDB - East Java
Annual Report (April 1, 1987 - March 31, 1988)  (Bahasa
Indonesia)
Audit Report (April 1, 1987 - March 31, 1988) (Bahasa
Indonesia)
Organization Chart, June 30, 1988
RDB - North Sumatera
Annual Report, 1986
Audit Reports, 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987 (Bahasa Indonesia)
Organization Chart, June 30, 1988
4. The Private Commercial Banks
Bank Niaga
Annual Reports, 1986, 1987
Bank Duta
Annual Reports 1986, 1987
Audit Report 1987
Training Program 1988
Bank Umum Nasional
Articles of Association
Annual Reports 1985, 1986, 1987
Audit Report 1987
Bank Central Asia
Annual Reports 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987
5. The National Development Finance Companies
UPPINDO
Annual Report 1986
Audit Report 1987



- 44 -                       APPENDIX 1
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT



- 45 -                          APPENDIX 1
THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
OF THE SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  INTRODUCTION .       .................................................       1
2.  THE NEED AND DEMAND FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR SMALL
AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTREPRENEURS..    1
3. AVAILABILITY OF SMIE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROVIDERS IN
INDONESIA... 3
4. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT: RATIONALE AND OPERATING
PRINCIPLES.. 5
A. Objectives and Rationale. . .                                             5
B. Target Population..                                                       6
C. Operating Principlesincips.........    7
5.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMELEMNTS. .                          .     ..     8
A. Firm-Level Consulting Assistance.                                         8
1.  Consultant Pre-Qualification Criteria and Procedures                 8
2.  Cost Sharing Criteria and Proeresres                                 9
3. Quality Control Procedures....                                       10
B. Training                           .. ....11
C. Special Studies .......       .. .... . ...... . . ...                   11
6. ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE AND STAFFING                 .....                    12
A. Technical Assistance Unit Structure and Make-u    ..                     12
B. Selection and Role of the Host Institution            . . .14
C. Regional Representation ......                                           15
D. Monitoring and Evaluation.                           .        ...    17
7.  COSTS AND COST SHARING. .. .... .. .........                     .......    18
A. Cost Projections                   8......
B. Technical Assistance Fund                 .....             ..          19
C. Output Summary                     ........ 21
D. Cost Sharing Mechanismsc         h    a    n    i     s    ms... ...... ...  21
E. Funding Mecchanism..              ....         ........... 000.    23



APPENDIX 1
- 46 -
LIST OF TABLES AND FIGURES                                                         Page No.
Figure 1 LPPI TA Unit Structure                                    ..    14
Figure 2  SMIE Project Organization Chart                         ..                     18
Table 1  Man-Month Projections                              ..                           19
Table 2      Technical Assistance Unit Budget Projections                 .     .        20
Table 3      Output Summary                    .    ............ . . .                   21
Table 4  Cost Sharing Sunmmary                              .         .                  23
Figure 3   SMIE Technical Assistance Component
Proposed Flow of Funds                         ..                          24



- 47 -
- 47 -               ~~~~APPENDIX I
Page 1
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       This Appendix summarizes the design of the technical assistance (TA)
component of the Small and Medium Industrial Enterprise (SMIE) Project. This
design was developed over the course of two project preparation missions, one
pre-appraisal mission, and an appraisal mission, all of which were carried out
between October 1987 and December 1988.
2.       The design team worked closely with government officials and private
sector representatives to identify SMIE development constraints and effective
means of addressing them within the limits imposed by gover.nent and Bank
regulations and practices.
3.       The summary has seven sections.  Following this introduction, section
2 discusses the need and demand for technical assistance by SMIEs. Section 3
outlines the various sources of technical assistance in Indonesia and the
types of assistance currently available or proposed under new projects. The
rationale and operating principles for the proposed SMIE Technical Assistance
Program are presented in section 4.
4.       Elements of the proposed technical assistance program follow in
section 5 along with certain critical operating procedures. Section 6
explains the organizational structure and staffing of the TA Unit, while cost
and cost-sharing projections as well as the proposed funding mechanism for the
TA activities are all discussed in section 7.
5.       Working Papers presenting more extensive discussion of the above
points were prepared in conjunction with the two preparation missions and the
pre-appraisal mission. A more detailed SMIE Project Technical Assistance Unit
Implementation Handbook is also being prepared and will be made available to
the project implementation team as an aid during the start-up phase of the
project.
II. THE NEED AND DEMAND FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTREPRENEURS
6.       Industrial census data collected in 1985 identified nearly 13,000
medium and large scale manufacturing enterprises in Indonesia, an increase of
82Z over the 1975 figure. Medium and large scale enterprises are defined as
those employing 20 or more workers. Just over 80, 10,800 firms, are
estimated to fall within the SMIE range of 20 to 150 workers.  Assuming an
average g':owth rate in this sector of only 10? per year, a conservative
estimate given the current rapid pace of policy reform and industrial growth
in the economy, we may project that the SMIE "universe" will include at least
15,000 eligible industrial enterprises by mid-1989. These will include many
new firms requiring long-term financing for their start-up phase as well as
many expansion firms--those graduating from the "family scale" ranks of less
than 20 workers--which require additional capital equipment and permanent
working capital.



- 48 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 2
7.       SMIEs accounted for an estimated 475,000 jobs and nearly 1.4 trillion
Rupiah in value added in 1985. In a Working Paper prepared as part of the
design effort for this project, Dr. Hal Hill of the Australian National
University concluded that, "SMIE firms in 1985 contributed 16.0Z and 1.52 to
non-oil manufacturing output and GDP, respectively. Their employment was
equivalent to 9.2? of the non-oil manufacturing total, and 0.92 of the entire
work force in 1985. Thus, by any indicator, the SMIE group constitutes a
sizeable portion of the manufacturing--and non-agricultural--economy of
Indonesia" (page 15). The importance of SMIEs has continued to grow, and
probably at an increased pace, since 1985 as government deregulation and
export promotion programs have come into effect.
8.       SMIE firms are found throughout the economy.  The largest
concentrations are found in the food processing subsector, which accounts for
about 20? of all SMIE employment and 18? of output. Other major subsectors of
SMIE activity include textiles and garments, wood products, printing and
publishing, chemicals, plastics, structural clay products, and fabricated
metal products.
9.       In 1985 over 80  of SMIEs were locn.ied on Java.  Most of the balance
are located in Sumatera. The rest are scattered among the various provincial
ca'itals. Although no data have been collected to document any change in this
concentration of SMIEs, there is little to suggest that this concentration of
SMIE firms in Java and Sumatera has been reduced. In fact, it may have
increased as these already commercialized areas have been developing at a very
rapid pace over the past four years while the less developed areas are still
struggling to "take off.,
10.      Small and medium-scale industrial firms must make effective use of
specialized technical assistance if this sector is to develop at the pace
necessary to contribute to national development and attain its appropriate
position in the national economy. The very rapid pace of industrial
development currently taking place in Indonesia, coupled with the relative
lack of experience of Indonesian entrepreneurs, managers and technical
personnel in such development, underlines the importance of having qualified
technical and managerial personnel readily avail"ble on a consulting basis.
11.      Small and medium-scale firms have a particularly clear need for
short-term consultants as they are generally unable directly to employ all of
the technical and management personnel they need on their permanent staff.
They face the same management, finance and production problems as larger
firms, but possess fewer resources with which to address them.
12.      The area of most frequent use of professional consulting assistance
in the past has been in the preparation of loan requests for start-up or
expansion enterprises. Loan requests are frequently based on inadequate
research and include production, market and financial projections unrelated to
the true prospects of the proposed investment. Consultant payment is often
related to the successful conclusion of loan negotiations rather than the
quality of the work done or its usefulness in evaluating or guiding the
development of the business. Good business planning should serve not only as
a tool for raising capital but also as a guide for the entrepreneur/manager in
the development of the business once financing has been secured.



- 49 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 3
13.      Other areas in which consulting assistance is often needed include
market research and marketing program development, the
identification/adaptation of appropriate production technologies, financial
and production management, inventory control procedures and quality control.
Small and medium firms can also benefit from the provision of technical and
management training opportunities to increase the capabilities and
productivity of their staffs.
14.      SMIEs are often quite skeptical about the value of consultant advice
to their firms and cringe at the thought of paying for such services from
their loan resources. They have little experience working with consultants
except in the preparation of loan requests, and have at times been
disappointed by the failure of local consultants to provide high quality
services. They will have to be "educated" and encouraged to use appropriate
consulting assistance and to recognize the value of such assistance to the
success of their businesses.
15.      The technical assistance component of the SMIE project aims to
increase the effective use of qualified technical assistance providers
(consultants) by SMIEs and increase the positive impact of credit funds which
will be made available under the project. Better project planning and
management will increase the success rate of ventures financed under the
project, reduce the number and value of defaults, and thus contribute to the
development of sound SMIE lending portfolios in the participating handling
banks.
16.      The technical assistance program will also improve the quality of
work carried out by the Indonesian consultants and increase the confidence of
the business community in the ability of consultants to contribute to the
success of industrial ventures. This is an effect which will bring about a
permanent change in the relationship between Indonesian consultants and
private sector enterprises, improving the effectiveness and profitability of
both.
17.      Several factors indicate that there will be strong demand for SMIE-
supported technical assistance, including:
o    The increasing number of industrial firms in the SMIE size range;
o    The increased exposure of SMIE firms to world markets, and a realiza-
tion of their need to compete effectively in those markets;
o    The increasing level of managerial sophistication among SMIE managers
and entrepreneurs;
o    The already increasing realization of the contribution that
specialized outside technical assistance can make to an enterprise;
and



- 50 -                      APPENDIX 1
Page 4
o    Finally, and initially most important, is that SMIE project handling
banks are very likely to demand that the bulk of the SMIE loan
requests they process be accompanied by a business plan that has been
developed and "vetted" by the project's TA component.
III. AVAILABILITY OF SMIE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROVIDERS IN INDONESIA
18.      There are several active sources of technical assistance to private
industry in Indonesia including:
o    Government Agencies;
o    Technical Institutes;
o    Bilateral/Multilateral Programs;
o    Non-Governmental Organizations;
t    Private Consulting Firms; and
o    Universities.
Each of these categories includes multiple participants but none could be
found that is specifically dedicated to providing direct technical assistance
to small and medium scale industrial enterprises. Numerous programs, firms,
organizations and individuals possess expertise that is needed by SMIEs but,
up to now, there have been no effective mechanisms for making this expertise
generally available to SMIEs.
19.      Government programs have generally been directed towards providing
credit and technical assistance to cottage industry and the provision of
generalized training opportunities and physical facilities (industrial
estates). Current revisions of government policy related to industrial
development, credit and trade greatly improve the environment for SMIE
development but direct assistan:e is still required for many firms to take
advantage of these increased opportunities.
20.      Several industry-specific technical institutes operate as semi-
autonomous units of the Ministry or Industry. Some focus on providing
technical training to managers and personnel of enterprises in their technical
field. Others concentrate on solving industrial problems and disseminating
technical information. None appear to have adequate funds available to
develop active outreach programs to SMIEs.
21.      Multilateral and bi-lateral donor agencies have sponsored enterprise
development technical assistance activities. Some of those programs include
aspects which overlap with SMIE project objectives (e.g., the Export
Development Project and the Central Java Enterprise Development Project) but
none are aimed at providing direct firm-level assistance to SMIEs.
22.      Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) programs.tend to focus either on
the development of cottage scale enterprises or the provision of valuable but
generalized training services. Again, these are services that SMIEs can make
good use of, but the programs are not directed at meeting the specific needs
of SMIEs.



- 51 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 5
23.      There are also some 4,000 registered consulting firms in Indonesia
approximately 1,650 of which are members of the Indonesian Consulting
Association (INKINDO). The overwhelming majority of these, however, are
concentrated in the construction industry and most of the rest rely heavily on
government as their principle client. Very few private firms direct a
significant part of their effort towards industrial clients and even fewer
have any direct experience working with SMIEs. Again, many private
consultants possess skills and knowledge needed by SMIEs, but there is
currently little means of bringing the two together.
24.      Indonesian universities are majoz sources of technical and managerial
expertise. The Institute of Technology in Bandung (ITB) has long been known
as a source of technical information and research related to specific
production technologies. ITB and numerous other universities are developing
programs through which faculty members can apply their expertise directly to
industrial problems. These programs will enhance the revenue earnings of the
universities (and faculty members) involved but will also serve as important
two-way mechanisms for transferring knowledge between the universities and the
private sector, strengthening both.
25.      In swzmmary, it is fair to say that although there are numerous
government programs and other sources of technical assistance which SMIEs
need, there are few means of encouraging and enabling SMIEs to gain access to
that expertise.
26.      There are sure to be difficulties in identifying appropriate
consulting assistance for specific clients, particularly during the early
phases of the project. There are several reasons to expect that these
problems will be overcome, however, including the fact that the project takes
a broad interpretation of the concept of *consultant" to include service
providers in government institutions, universities, NGOs or other
institutions. The ranks of professional consultants are increasing as more
and better university education is available to a broader range of students
and increasing amounts of technical assistance and training are being provided
to consultants through various government programs. As the demand side of the
demandlsupply equation becomes more sophisticated, the supply side will be
forced to respond with higher quality consultant assistance. By the end of
the project, a great deal of progress should be evident both in the ready
availability of appropriate technical assistance and the readiness of SMIEs to
call upon such assistance.
IV. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT: RATIONALE
AND OPERATING PRINCIPLES
A. Obiectives and Rationale
27.      The objective of the technical assistance component of the SMIE
Project is to work in tandem with the credit component of the project to:



- 52 -                        APPENDIX 1
Page 6
o    Provide highly qualified and carefully targeted technical assistance
and training to small and medium scale industrial enterprises;
o    Promote the development of productive and valuable links between
small/medium scale enterprises and providers of high quality techni-
cal and managerial assistance; and
o    Increase the capability of Indonesian technical assistance providers
to provide quality technical assistance to private industry.
28.      The technical assistance component and the credit component of the
project are complementary and mutually reinforcing. There is intended to be,
how'ver, no necessary operational link between them. Any eligible enterprise
is free to participate in either component of the program, or both, as may be
most appropriate for that enterprise.
29.      The approach is based on the use of private sector resources and is
'market driven' in that it will be responsive to the expressed needs of its
targeted client group. There are several reasons why this approach has been
chosen:
o SHIEs have more specific and varied technical assistance
requirements than d4 the cottage industries which are most often
the target of technical assistance programs.
o A demand driven approach avoids many of the bureaucratic
inefficiencies inherent to most government programs.
O The approach provides a vehicle capable of attracting the best
local technical asFistance personnel and providing them with an
appropriate framework in which to work.
O It provides the opportunity to develop a program which will not
perpetually require government subsidies. Some functions will be
discontinued as they are no longer needed. Others will be
commercialized as their value to the target population of
enterprises becomes clear.
B. Taraet Population
30.      Technical assistance will be directed towards that group of SMIEs
which is also the target of the credit component. For purposes of this
project, small and medium scale industrial enterprises are considered to be
those that employ between 20 and 150 workers and have assets (excluding land
and inventory) of no more than US$500,000 (Rp 850 million).
31.      Only productive enterprises will be eligible to receive direct
technical assistance. There are a few obvious candidates for inclusion in the
list of subsectors in which eligible SMIEs are most likely to be found
including metal working and machining, rattan processing and the manufacture
of rattan products for export, wood product manufacturing (excluding plywood),
shrimp farming and related activities (hatcheries, feed mixing, etc.), and
other agro-processing.



- 53 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 7
32.      Several factors to be considered in determining the eligibility of
any specific subsector or enterprise include labor intensity, local value
added, use of local raw materials, export or import substitution potential,
linkages to other industries, current state of development of the subsector,
potential for enhancing labor skills and productivity.
33.      Industrial subsectors that are shown in the long-run to be highly
protected and generating low or negative economic rates of return should be
ineligible to receive SMIE credit or technical assistance.
34.      Enterprises ineligible to receive subsidized technical assistance
will be cottage industries employing a handful of family members working in
the informal sector to supply local markets, large scale joint-venture or
state-owned high technology enterprises, pure trading activities whether
wholesale or retail, and primary farming ventures. Of course, all industry
and commerce will benefit indirectly from the strengthening of the small and
medium industry sector and the development of the consulting industry.
35.      The greatest demand for SMIE project technical assistance is likely
to be generated in Jakarta and the provinces of West, East and Central Java
and North Sumatera. Credit and technical services will be available to
enterprises in other regions but they will be served less intensively than the
high demand regions. Adjustment can be made to account for demand patterns
that develop as the project unfolds. The important principle to be respected
is that the services be *drawn" to the region by expressed demand rather than
'pushed" into priority regions for social or political reasons.
C. Operating Principles
36.      There are several fundamental principles that must be honored in the
development of the technical assistance program if the problems that have
limited the effectiveness of other technical assistance efforts are to be
avoided.
o The program must be "demand driven". It should only provide services
for which there is a present market demand.
o The program should be flexible enough to meet the needs of different
industrial subsectors.
o The TA Unit should be operated by a private sector organization
respected by both Government and the private sector, funded on a
grant basis by the Government/World Bank and bilateral donors, and be
given the necessary autonomy to act as a private sector entity
largely free of bureaucratic constraints on its operations.
o The TA Unit should be staffed by a small core staff of qualified
local and expatriate consultants and work under the leadership of a
respected local project director.



- 54 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 8
o The use of local service providers should be maximized in all
elements of the project.
O Operating links should be established between the SMIE project TA
Unit and other related programs.
O An effective and low cost outreach/liaison capability must be
developed between the central TA Unit and the major regional centers
for SHIEs.
O All technical assistance should be provided on a cost sharing basis,
with the client paying for a portion of all services provided.
O High quality standards must be set and maintained in all consulting
work supported by the project.
V. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM ELEMENTS
37.      The SHIE project technical assistance program will include three
elements:  firm-level consulting services, training, and special topical
studies.
A.  Firm-Level Consulting Assistance
38.      The Technical Assistance Unit will assist eligible private firms to
obtain the technical assistance they need to plan the development of their
business activities and operate them successfully by helping to create
effective links between firms needing assistance and the consulting firms and
other service organizations capable of providing it. Among the activities
undertaken by the Unit to fulfill this task will be the following:
o Screening potential service providers to develop a short-list of
"pre-qualified consultants to participate in the project.
o Assisting SMIEs and handling banks to develop terms of reference for
specific consulting assignments and identify appropriate experts to
carry out the work.
o Participating in financing selected consulting assignments.
O Establishing a review system to insure that high quality standards
are set and maintained.
39.      Consulting assignments to be supported by the TA Unit should include
the preparation of feasibility studies/business plans and loan applications,
the conduct of market research and preparation of marketing strategies and
plans, the evaluation of production technologies and analysis of production
operations, management audits and trouble shooting.
40.      In all cases, the technical assistance contract will be established



- 55 -                        APPENDIX 1
Page 9
between the SMIE and the service provider involved. Whenever consulting work
is supported financially by the project, however, all work will be approved in
advance by, and accomplished with the full review and clearance of, the TA
Unit.
1.  Consultant Pre-Qualification Criteria and Procedures
41.      It will not be possible to assess and pre-qualify the entire range of
interested service providers prior to the initiation of technical assistance
activities, nor should it be a priority.  The pre-qualification process should
be carried out in conjunction with direct technical assistance activities and
a "fast track' process must be put in place to insure that service providers
can be qualified for individual assignments without undue delay.
42.      The pre-qualification process must be a dynamic one, encompassing not
only the original assessment of consultant qualifications and capabilities,
but also a continual review of the results of project-related consulting
assignments and updating of the consultant assessment record and the data
base.
43.      The pre-qualification process will involve four steps:
o The TA Unit will publicize the project through the general press and
appropriate professional organizations and invite interested service
providers to apply for pre-qualification.
O Interested organizations and individuals will submit their pre-
qualification applications.
o  The TA Unit will review the applications, check with other data
bases, contact appropriate referencas and, where necessary, interview
the applicants for further information or clarification.
O Qualified applicants will be added to the data base of the TA Unit
and their names made available to SMIEs who request technical
assistance under the project.
A suggested format for the pre-qualification application is presented in the
TA Unit Implementation Handbook.
2. Cost Sharing Criteria and Procedures
44.      The SHIE Technical Assistance Fund (TAF) will not be able to
participate directly in financing all consulting assignments related to SMIE
loans. The Indonesia Banking Development Institute (LPPI) and the TA Unit
must be authorized to select assignments to be directly supported by the TAF
according to a pre-established set of criteria and procedures. The following
criteria will be used inter-alia:
o Priority of the assignment in terms of industrial subsector, foreign
exchange earning/saving, employment generation or geographic
location;



- 56 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 10
o Demonstration or multiplier effects or spin-off benefits (application
of knowledge gained to other enterprises/industries);
o Backward and forward linkages to other local economic activities;
o Client's need for financial assistance and ability to repay;
o Potential profitability of the venture.
45.      A simple procedure must be established to be used by SMIE applicants
for financial assistance in carrying out specific consulting assignments. A
simple application form (see the TA Unit Implementation Handbook for a
suggested format) will be developed on which the applicant will provide a
brief outline of his or her business and the desired consulting assignment
together with the suggestion of an appropriate service provider to carry out
the work and an estimate of the total cost of the assignment.
46.      Among the principles governing the operation of the TAF should be the
following:
o Priority should be given to supporting SMIE lending activities though
at least 252 of the TAF should be earmarked to support other types of
assignments.
o At no time should the TAF pay more than 60Z of the cost of any
assignment.
o  The maximum participation in any assignment should be US$10,000.
o The client's contribution to financing an assignment should be in the
form of cash and paid prior to any payment from the TAF.
o TAF payments should be made directly to a service provider or other
vendor associated with the assignment.
o All assignments in which the TAF participates financially should be
based on a service contract approved in advance by the TA unit.
|o   hen an SMIE-assisted feasibility study leads to project financing
and development, the SMIE will be required to repay the TAF the
amount it contributed to financing the study. In cases where no
enterprise results, no repayment of the TAF contribution will be
required. If a negative determination of project viability is clear
prior to completion of the feasibility study, the client will be
encouraged to cancel the balance of the work by offering a pro-rata
cost sharing of costs up to that point from the TAF.
47.      These principles are designed to insure that the SMIE client
demonstrates his commitment to the project by committing his or her own funds
to it, prior to the expenditure of any TAF funds. Requiring the client SMIE
to share in the cost of technical assistance also helps to insure that the
clients have some capital to apply to the development of their business.



-57                           APPENDIX 1
Page 11
While the complaint is often heard that SMIEs cannot "afford' to pay for
consultants to help them with the planning and development of their
businesses, it is necessary for viable businesses to have at least some
capital available for such purposes.
3. Quality Control Procedures
48.      The success of the technical assistance component of the SMIE Project
will depend, to a very large extent, on the ability of the TA Unit to insure
that services provided with the sponsorship of the project are of a high
professional quality and enhance the capability of local service providers to
provide such high quality assistance. This requires that a rigorous quality
control process be built into the project.
49.      The quality control process will begin with the "pre-qualification"
of service providers in specific technical fields and the provision of
assistance to potential "clients" in the preparation of appropriate Terms of
Reference (TOR) for their consulting assignments and follow-up throughout the
assignment to a review of the assignments output and comparison of it with the
original TOR.
50.      Clients who finance their own assignments are, of course, not obliged
to submit the work of their consulta.its to the TA Unit for review, although
the Unit should be prepared to review any material submitted to it and make
lists of pre-qualified consultants available to any who ask for them, whether
or not the TAF will be involved in financing the work. Any information
resulting from reviewing such assignments will also be used to update and
expand the service provider data base.
B. Training
51.      A small portion of the TAF will be designated to finance training
programs to strengthen participating service providers, handling bank
personnel and SMIE managers. While members of the TA Unit might participate
in the training programs themselves and some flexibility must be permitted to
bring in expatriate trainers in certain circumstances, local resources should
be used to the maximum feasible extent to provide this training. These local
resources include consulting firms, universities, technical institutes, NGOs
and others.
52.      Topics that might be the focus of specific training activities
include the preparation and analysis of business plans, financial management
and analysis, consulting firm management, various technical topics related to
production technologies, marketing research and planning, and others. The
first training program, which will be initiated prior to loan effectiveness,
will introduce the handling banks to the operating criteria and procedures of
the credit program and the reporting requirements of the World Bank.
53.      The most important point to heed in the development of the training
program is the obvious, though often overlooked, one of only initiating
training programs for which there is demand. It is essential that all
participants in training activities participate significantly in paying the



- 58 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 12
costs of mounting the program. A minimum of 25Z to 502 contribution should be
required from each participant in any training activity. Not only will this
contribution insure that only truly interested participants are involved in
the programs provided, but it will also help to spread the value of the
financial contributions of the Government and outside donors among a larger
number of beneficiaries.
54.      It will obviously be necessary for the TA Unit to coordinate its
training activities closely with those of other organizations and avoid
duplication of those other efforts--supporting them wherever possible.
INKINDO plans to run a series of training programs for consultants and the
proposed Consultants Marketing Development Project has training as one of its
major areas of activity. Certain of the technical institutes, universities
and NGOs also offer ongoing training programs in relevant technical fields.
C. SEecial Studies
55.      Another small element of the technical assistance component of the
project will be the study of special topics related to the development of
small and medium scale industrial enterprises in Indonesia. The TA Unit may
elect to carry out certain studies of limited scope itself. It will more
often, however, contract such studies to qualified local consulting firms or
other institutions and limit its own role to defining the studies to be
undertaken and overseeing the work, insuring that high quality standards are
maintained and that the practical lessons learned from such studies are
appropriately followed up. Outside (expatriate) consultants may be contracted
to carry out certain studies where local expertise is unavailable or where it
is necessary to conduct certain research outside the country (export market
research for example).
56.      Terms of Reference for all studies will be prepared by the TA Unit.
Small contracts (i.e., involving contract expenditures of less than US$20,000)
may be contracted directly by LPPI on a sole source basis or by direct
negotiation with one or more qualified service providers. Larger contracts
will be subject to an open competitive bidding process. The following topics
are illustrative of those which might be included in the studies program of
the SMIE Project:
o   Factors constraining the expansion and development of SMIEs;
o   The effects of specific government policies and regulations on SMIE
development;
o   The effects of banking policy on small and medium enterprise
development;
o   The market structure and potential for specific industrial
subsectors;



- 59-                         APPENDIX 1
Page 13
o   The financial and economic impact of project activities on its target
population and the national economy; and
o The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for specific SMIE subsectors.
VI. ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE AND STAFFING
A. Technical Assistance Unit Structure and Make-Up
57.      The TA Unit will 1,e made up of eight full-time senior professionals,
at least five of whom will be Indonesians, located in the Jakarta offices of
LPPI, the host institution. A network of regional representatives will be
developed in conjunction with Bank Indonesia's Regional Project Management
Units (RPMUs) on the basis of a working agreement between Bank Indonesia and
LPPI.
58.      Full time members of the TA Unit will have technical qualifications
in the fields of business planning, management, industrial finance, industrial
engineering, marketing, computer science and economics. The TA Unit will be
supplemented by a part time legal advisor with experience in industrial and/or
trade law. The team leader will be responsible for coordination of all team
efforts as well as for providing liaison with LPPI management, via the project
director, and outside institutions.
59.      The TA Unit will work under the guidance of a project director
assigned by LPPI and be supported by an administrative staff assigned to the
project full-time by LPPI. The administrative staff should include at least
one accountant, two secretaries/word processors, one driver/messenger, and one
general office assistant. The project director should be a senior officer of
LPPI with management experience and access to the upper levels of a broad
range of agencies and the private sector. His or her role will include
providing general policy guidance and oversight to the TA Unit on behalf of
LPPI and representation of the project to public and private sector
institutions and organizations. Figure 1 illustrates the internal structure
of the TA Unit.
60.      Expatriate personnel are projected to serve for three years each
while the Indonesian team will serve for the full four year life of the
project, and hopefully beyond. There is room to modify the program to meet
changing needs. For example, it may be desirable to have one or two of the
expatriate advisors leave slightly earlier, freeing up funds to hire their
Indonesian replacements sufficiently early to provide for a substantial period
of overlap.
61.      Expatriate members of the TA Unit should be specialists in
management, marketing and industrial engineering. Expatriate advisors will be
supplied by a Dutch consulting firm on the basis of a tendering process among
a short-list of qualified firms. Terms of Reference for the contracted firm
and expatriate personnel have been drafted and provided to LPPI, Bank
Indonesia and the Government of the Netherlands. The contracted firm should



- 60 -                        APPENDIX 1
Page 14
be prepared to provide short-term assistance in a variety of areas including
marketing, training, agricultural production, agro-processing, packaging.
agricultural and macro-economics, and policy analysis.
62.      Indonesian TA Unit members should be specialists in management,
finance, marketing, industrial engineering, computer science, administration
and the law. Terms of Reference for these positions are included in the TA
Unit Implementation Handbook. Regional representatives should be skilled in
relevant technical areas such as marketing, management consulting, and
training. Indonesian team members will be selected by LPPI working closely
with the expatriate team which will be in place first. They will not be
employees of the expatriate consulting firm, but rather serve as employees of
the project itself under the general supervision of the TA Unit leader.
Figure 1: LPPI TA UNIT STRUCTURE
|LPPI Project Director (I)|
Team Leader tE)
Mgmt/Bus Planning Spec.
T
A
Dep. Team Leader (I)
Mgmt/Bus Planning Spec.
U
N
I       Harketing Spec.(E I                Finance Spec. tI)
T
|Marketing Spec- tI) + 
Ind. Engineer (E)|Legal Advisor (I)
(part time)
|Ind. Engineer tI)|                Adi._Ceia
Bank Indonesia RPMU Representatives
Note: (E) indicates expatriate personnel
(I) indicates Indonesian personnel



- 61 -                        APPENDIX 1
Page 15
B. Selection and Role of the Host Institution
63.      The selection of an appropriate host institution for the technical
assistance unit is critical to the success of the technical assistance
component of the SMIE Project. At least ten possibilities were considered in
the selection of a host institution for the TA Unit, but LPPI has been
selected to play this role. Factors which support this selection include the
administrative and financial strength of LPPI, its ope:ating autonomy coupled
with its links to Bank Indonesia and the commercial banking sector, its well-
proven training capacity, and its ability to be neutral in selecting among
potential consultants and projects.
64.      As host institution for the SMIE Project's TA Unit, LPPI will play a
critical role in the overall development of the project. It will be
responsible for:
o  Providing a senior level project director to manage the work of the
core TA team while representing the project at high levels of
Government, finance and industry.
O  Identifying and recruiting appropriate professional consultants to
staff the core TA Unit and carry out the defined program.
o  Assigning appropriate support staff personnel to work with the
technical assistance team and providing the core technical assistance
team with appropriate office space and facilities.
o  Establishing critical liaison relationships with government and
private organizations related to the project.
o  Providing periodic progress reports to the Ministry of Finance/Bank
Indonesia consistent with donor agency requirements.
LPPI will ultimately be responsible for the management of grant funds con-
sistent with the terms of the grant agreements between itself, the Government
of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Finance, and the World Bank.
65.      Day-to-day management of the TA Unit and support staff will be
provided by the core team leader and deputy team leader. TA Unit operations
will be governed by quarterly work plans and budget projections prepared in
collaboration with, and approved by, the Project Director who will serve as
the link between the TA Unit and LPPI management.
Besides its role in hosting the core TA Unit for the project, LPPI will be
involved in the project as a service provider, especially in the areas of
training and finance. In order to avoid the appearance of a conflict of
interest in LPPI's roles as a service provider as well as TA Unit host, all
such participation by LPPI should be specifically approved in advance by the
responsible Bank Indonesia official.



- vi62 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 16
C. Regional Representation
66.      It is at the level of the regional S14IE Project representatives that
the TA Unit will deal most directly with its client population, and to a
lesser extent, with the service provider community. It is crucial that this
link be established carefully and in such a way as to make SMIE Project
services readily available to a broad and diverse client base.
67.      The proposed means of providing the TA Unit with the regional
representation it requires is to contract with Bank Indonesia for services to
be provided by the Regional Project Management Units (RPMUs) attached to the
various Bank Indonesia branches. Eleven of the units originally developed in
support of the Small Enterprise Development Project (SEDP) have been
re-established under the 'New SEDP" program. Each is staffed by three
consultants: a development banker, an agriculturalist, and an industrial
developme!Lt specialist. The SMIE project regional representation functions
proposed here would be in addition to and apart from the normal SEDP-related
work of the RPMU team.
68.      The agreement that would serve as the basis for the provision of
services to the SMIE Project by the RPMUs will be established between LPPI and
Bank lndonesia in Jakarta. Funding will pass from LPPI to Bank Indonesia/CPMU
to the Bank Indonesia branches to the RPMU. Operational responsibility would
be established directly between the TA Unit and the various RPMUs, however,
and monitored by Bank Indonesia and LPPI. This "two channel" arrangement
makes it extremely important that the agreement between LPPI and Bank
Indonesia be carefully and clearly drawn. A draft of critical portions of
this agreement will be included in the TA Unit Implementation Handbook.
69.      In those four provinces where demand for SMIE project services is
expected to be heaviest (East, West and Central Java and North Sumatera) the
project will finance the full cost of one full-time professional
representative and appropriate clerical and logistical support. In the six
other provinces which are expected to generate some, though a lower level, of
SMIE project activity, the project will finance part-time representatives.
These provinces include Bali, South Sulawesi, South Sumatera, Riau, Lampung
and South Kalimantan.  Bank Indonesia/RPMU branches and participating handling
banks in other provinces will be provided with promotional and descriptive
material and information to enable them to explain and represent the program
to local entrepreneurs and service providers.
70.      The TA Unit will collaborate with Bank Indonesia and RPMUs in the
selection of appropriate SMIE project representatives. SHIE project regional
representatives should have a university degree in business administration,
economics or other related field and a background in private business
management or management consulting. It is important that each have a good
knowledge of, and be respected in, the local business community and be able to
communicate the objectives and resources of the SMIE project effectively to a
diverse audience of entrepreneurs, bankers, service providers and government
agencies. These skills are complementary to those being required in SEDP
consultants and, at least in those cases where an additional person will be
added to the RPMU team, will enhance the overall capability of the RPMU team.



- 63 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 17
71.      Each RPMU will have a designated SMIE project representative who will
be the primary contact point for the project within the unit. Any of the
consultants in the unit may be called upon for specific purposes, under the
supervision of the RPMU team leader, so long as overall level of effort
limitations are not exceeded. This means that LPPI is contracting with the
Bank Indonesia/RPMUs for a service rather than hiring an individual to
represent the SMIE project in the region.
72.      Responsibilities of the RPMUs with regard to the SMIE project will
include the promotion of SMIE project technical assistance services among
potential clients, services providers and banks in the region; cataloging
available service providers in the region and assisting with the collection of
information needed for pre-qualification; assisting entrepreneurs to identify
and define consulting tasks and prepare appropriate scopes of work; monitoring
and fa:ilitating individual consulting assignments; and serving as liaison
between SMIE project participants in the regions and the TA Unit in Jakarta.
73.      TA Unit representatives in the RPMUs will not make final decisions
regarding the pre-qualification of service providers, cost sharing or quality
control, though their views may be sought in all three cases. This is to
insure that regional representatives see themselves, and are seen by others,
as being facilitators whose objective it is to work with clients and service
providers alike rather than as judges of the relative merits of various
parties.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
74.      Bank Indonesia will appoint one officer whose responsibility it will
be to work closely with LPPI and the core technical assistance team as the
project develops and insure that all terms and conditions of the grant
agreement between LPPI and Bank Indonesia, and the service agreement that
provides for RPMU participation are satisfied by both parties.
75.      The TA Unit through LPPI will produce a semi-annual implementation
report which would be circulated to GOI, GON and the Bank for comment. Topics
covered by the report would include: enterprise assistance, staffing, cost
sharing, consultant pre-qualification, training, studies and projection of the
future.
Figure 2 illustrates the overall organization structure of the technical
assistance component of the project.



- 64 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 18
Figure 2: LPPI TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ORGANIZATION CHART
LPPI
NATII'NAL                         TA UNIT                        SERVICE
INSTITUTIONS                                                      PROVIDERS
|REGIONAL REPRESENTATIVES l
(BANK INDONE SIA'S RPMUS) l
ENTREPREER
VII. COSTS AND COST SHARING
A. Cost Projections
76.      Projected personnel costs are based on the estimates of person-month
inputs to the project presented in Table 1. Personnel and operating cost
projections are based on a phase down of the technical assistance component in
Year 4, either towards a complete discontinuation of the effort at the end of
the project or as part of a transition to a self-sustaining basis for certain
sub-components.



- 65 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 19
Table 1: PERSON-MONTH PROJECTIONS
Person-months
Expat.    Local
Long-term Technical Assistance:
Expatriate Core Team Members                                108
Indonesian Core Team Members                                ---        336
Regional Representatives                                    ---         336
Total Long-term                                          108        672
Short-term Technical Assistance:
Expatriate Consultan s                                       24          --
Indonesian Consultants                                       --         36
Total Technical Assistance                               132        708
77.      Table 2 presents estimated costs of the proposed technical assistance
program and a summary of proposed funding sources.
B. Technical Assistance Fund
78.      The Technical Assistance Fund (TAF) is divided into three components
corresponding to the three elements of the-technical assistance program-
-direct technical assistance, training and special studies. US$1.6 million
has been allocated to the provis on of direct technical assistance to
participating small and medium enterprises. Of this amount, US$1.2 million
will help finance feasibility studies and business plans. US$400,000 will be
reserved for the provision of other types of direct assistance to individual,
or groups of, operating enterprises. It will not be used for the preparation
of business plans aimed at justifying new bank loans. US$400,000 has been
allocated to the provision of training support for eligible enterprise
personnel, individual consultants and consulting organizations, participating
handling banks and SMIE project staff itself. US$200,000 has been allocated
to special studies to be carried out or sponsored by the SMIE project.



- 66 -                               APPENDIX 1
Page 20
Table 2: TECHNICPL ASSISTANCE UNIT BUDOET PROJECTIONS /a
(US8 thouxands)
Yeor 1        Yer 2        Ye r 8       Year 4       Tot*l
X       L      F      LC    FXLC         FXLC 
Expat. Consultants /b
Team Leader            190      16    100     15 1S0      16    o       0    800     48
Marketing Spec.        180      16    180     16  180     16    0       0    670     48
Indust. Eng.           is.      ie    180     16  180     15    0       0    570     48
Misc. STTA (Opm/yr)    115      16    115     18  11S     16   50       0    480     48
685     64    es8    64  665       64   50      0  2.046    192   2.287
Indonesian Staff /b
Proj. Dir.               0    186       0    186    0    148    0    146       0    54
Dep. Tam Leder           0      58      0     68    0     S8    0      68      0    232
Finance Advisor          0      44      0     44    0     44    0      44      0    176
Marketing Advisor        0      44      0     44    0     44    0      44      0    176
Industrial Engineer      0     44       0     44    0     44    0      44      0    178
Computer Specialist      0      22      0     22    0     22    0      22      o     88
Legal Advisor (25X)      0      20      0     20    0     20    0      20      0     80
Admin. Dir.              0      22      0     22    0     22    0      22      0     88
Misc. STTA (9pm/yr)      0      46      0     45    0     46    0      45      0    180
n Clerical Staff         0      40      0     40    0     40    0      40      0    le1
0    476      0    475    0    475    0    476       0  1.900   l.900
Regional Repros. sb
4 Full-time Equiv.       0    180       0    180    0    180    0    180       0    S0
6 Half-time Equlv.       0      90      0     9O    0     SO    0      90      0     6eo
a    250      0    250    0    250    e    250       01.00   1.000
UPPI Cperating Costs
Space                    0      18      0     18    0     18    0      18      0     72
Office Ops.              0      18      0     18    0     18    0      18      0     72
Travel                   0      24      0     24    0     24    0      24      0     90
a     so      0     60    a     so    e      60      0    240     240
Capital Cost
Vehicles                87       0      0      0    0      0    0       0      0     87
Office Furn.   Equip.   80       0      0      0    0      0    0       0      0     go
117      e         a        e      e    e       0    117            117
(ech. Assist. Fund
Direct T.A.             s0   8S0       60    450   50    860   s0    280    200  1,400
Training                25    100      25    100   25     8o   24      40    100    800
Studies                 25      25     50     60   26     25    0       0    100    100
100    476    125    600  100    438   75    290    400 1a.00   2.200
Appraisal Advisor        226      75    226     75  160     50   e        0    600    200     800
Totals            1.107  1 BSS  1.016  1.S24  9if  1.a34  12S  1 07S  s.Je2  5.ss2   s.494
/s  Exclusive of Price and Physical Contingncies.
Personnel costs are incluslv- of all costs related to the various personnel categories as
appropriate Including salary and benefits, housing and other allowances, transportation,
overheads and fet.



- 67 -                        APPENDIX I
Page 21
Summary by *uggested fundtng source:
Netherlands Grant    Expat. Consultants              2,237
Netherlands Loan     Indonesian Staff      1,90
Regional Reps         1,000-
Capital Costs           117       -
Operating Costs         240       ---
8,261
Japanese Grant      Tech. Aest. Fund                 8,U0
and Appraisal Advisor
8 494
C. OutDut Summary
79.      In terms of person-months of effort, we expect the TAF to participate
in financing at least 1,235 person-months of local consulting assistance and
at least 24 person-months of expatriate assistance. The outputs which can be
expected to result from this effort are summarized in Table 3 below.
Table 3: OUTPUT SUMMARY
Business Plans Prepared                   526
Business Plans Approved/Financed          368
Other Direct TA Activities                160
Training Program Participants           1,000
Topical Studies                             8
D. Cost Sharing Mechanisms
80.      If technical assistance programs to private industry are to be
effective, they must be conceived of and designed from the bottom-up and in
direct response to felt need on the part of those who are intended to benefit
from their execution. The most effective means of insuring that this is the
case is to require that beneficiaries contribute directly to the cost of
activities in which they will participate.
81.      While client participation in the financing of technical assistance
activities can have a major impact on the overall size of the technical
assistance effort and the number of clients that can oe assisted with a
limited budget, there is a sense in which the amount of such participation is
less important than the fact of it. By participating in the financing of
their own technical assistance, entrepreneurs take possession of those
activities and are more demanding that services be appropriate and effective.
It is also important to realize that any enterprise, to be truly viable, must
be able to carry the cost of acquiring the technical assistance it requires to
be successful.
82.      Interviews and business experience in Indonesia indicate that many
small and medium scale entrepreneurs doubt the value of business planning
beyond the justification of a specific loan request, and are unwilling to pay



- 68 -                        APPENDIX 1
Page 22
for it. They will have to be shown that it is, in fact, a valuable tool for
them. as they develop and manage their businesses and, therefore, deserves the
close attention of experts in its preparation. In some cases, initially, it
may be necessary to set lower cost-sharing requirements as an incentive to
private enterprises to participate until the value of the service is proven.
83.      There is a readily available mechanism for sharing the cost of
business planning/feasibility study exercises, which has been well-tested and
proven itself effective in other settings. The assistance agency provides a
portion of the cash costs of carrying out such studies as a "contingent loan".
If the project is subsequently financed, the amount paid by the agency is
reimbursed out of the permanent financial package. If the project is not
developed, the amount is forgiven and written off.
84.      The cost sharing assumptions used in developing the financial
projections are as follows:
Feasibility Studies/Business Planning
Average total cost                             US$10,000
Maximum TAF participation                          60Z
Average TAF participation                          502
No. of supported subprojects financed/
No. of supported subprojects                 70Z
Number of subproject funding cycles
during life of project                        3
Other Direct Technical Assistance
Average total cost                             US$5,000
Maximum TAF participation                          602
Average TAF participation                          50Z
Training
Average total cost/part'cipant                  US$300
Maximum TAF participation                          752
Average TAF participation                          60?
Special Studies
Average total cost/study                       US$25,000
TAF participation                                 100Z
85.      Total client participation in financing technical assistance
activities should exceed US$5 million broken down as in Table 4.
86.      As a result of the "rolling' nature of the fund to finance business
plans, approximately US$413,000 will be available at the end of the project.
These funds can be used to finance additional business plans, applied to other
types of technical assistance, or for other purposes.



- 69 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 23
Table 4s  COST SHARING SUMMARY
No.                                   Client
activities         SMIE Cost          participation
--------      us  -------------
Business Plans                526                787,000             4,490,000
Other Direct T.A.             160                400,000               400,000
Training                    1,000                400,000               200,000
Topical studies                 8                200,000
Total                                    1.787.000             5,090,000
D. Funding Mechanism
87.      Figure 3 illustrates the nature of the funding mechanism and the way
in which project funds would flow to LPPI to finance TA Unit operations. The
Government of Japan has already agreed to finance the Technical Assistance
Fund on a grant basis via the World Bank. The Government of the Netherlands
has agreed to provide operating funds for the TA Unit with a combination of
grant and loan funds. All financing for the technical assistance program
should be consolidated into a single grant, administered by Bank Indonesia,
before being passed on to LPPI.



-70-                      APPENDIX 1
Page 24
FiLure 3: SMIE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
PROPOSED  ow oF FuNDs
|Gov't of Netherlands                            |Gov't of Japan|
loan                        grant
& grant
MiHnistry of:iac
|  Bank      l
| Indonesia l
LPPI
BI/RPMUs          Contract Firm           Local Hire &        TA Funt
________            ---------            Oper. Expenses        -------
GON                  GON                 ----------         Japanese
GON
IClients 



- 71 -
APPENDIX 2
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
THE PARTICIPATING BANKS UNDER THE PROPOSED PROJECT



- 72 -
APPENDIX 2
THE PARTICIPATING BANXKS UNDER THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  The Four Participating State Commercial Banks .................   1
Background and Development .................................   1
Organization, Management and Staffing ..................... .   2
Procedures .................................................   2
Financial Position                   ..                        3
Financial Performance   .     ..............................   5
Portfolio Quality                    ..                        7
II.  The Three Participating Regional Development Banks ............   8
Overview of All Regional Development Banks in Indonesia .......   8
Regional Development Bank - Central Java ......O-*.............  10
Regional Development Bank - East Java ................. ** ...... ..   11
Regional Development Bank - North Sumatera ....................  14
III.  The Four Participating Private Commercial Banks ...............  17
| ~~~Bank  Duta ....................................................... 17
Bank  Niaga ....................................................... 19
Bank  Umum  Nasional .  ......    ..........  .........   ................ .  20
Bank Central Asia .....            ...............  22
IV.  The Two Participating National Development Banks     ..      .  25
Indonesia Development Finance Company (UPPINDO) ....... ........  25
Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO) ..........................  27



- 73 -                        Apnpendix 2
Page 1
THE PARTICIPATING BANKS UNDER THE PROPOSED PROJECT
I.  The Four Participating State Commercial Banks
Background and Development
1.       The State Commercial Banks (SCBs) dominate the commercial banking
sector in Indonesia, accounting for approximately 702 of total assets of
deposit money banks, and fulfilling the dual role of commercial banL and agent
of economic development. All operate under the guidelines of the Banking Act
of 1967 and a number of other legislative measures enacted in 1967168 that
established the SCBs in their present forms. Each SCB was originally assigned
a particular sector or sectors to which it should give priority: Bank Dagang
Negara (BDN) - mining and industry; Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (BNI 1946) -
industry; Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) - agricultural and rural credit; Bank
Bumi Daya (BBD) - estates and forestry; and Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia (BEII)
- trade financing. This sectoral specialization was difficult to implement
because of customers' reluctance to change banks; increasingly, therefore, the
SCBs have competed among themselves and with other banks for both loans and
deposits.
2.       Until the June 1983 financial sector reforms, the evolution of the
SCBs was strongly influenced by the role and policies of Bank Indonesia (BI).
While the 1967 Banking Act delegates to BI responsibility for the guidance,
control and supervision of all financial institutions, the role of BI in the
Indonesian economy has been much broader than that of a traditional central
bank. It has taken the lead in furthering national development by directly
financing public enterprises and by promoting special credit programs to
banks, thus enabling them to finance investments in priority sectors. In this
way, BI has been a very important source of funds to the commercial banks,
particularly the SCBs. With the 1983 reforms which eliminated many categories
of liquidity credits, the SCBs had to mobilize substantial resources directly
from the public and to operate more efficiently and profitably in an
increasingly competitive environment. However, the SCBs continue to rely on
BI as an important source of funding, although its importance has declined
over recent years.
3.       Four SCBs - BDN, BNI 1946, BRI, BBD - have been selected to part-
icipate in the proposed SMIE Project. The financial indicators of these four
SCBs as of December 31, 1987 are shown below:



- 74 -                        Appendix 2
Page 2
BDN        BNI 1946         BRI        BBD
--------------- (Rp billion)-------------
Total Assets                         7,363        11,543         7,581      9,190
Total Loans                          5,165         7,410         6,034      6,343
Total Deposits                       4,198         7,352         3,566      5,130
Total Equity                           349           276           149        128
Net Income (1985)                       26             24           27          9
(1986)                      76             44           31         37
(1987)                      68             68           44         40
Ratios (1987):
Net Income/Avg. Assets (Z)             1.02          0.sa          0.61       0.48
Net Income/Avg. Equity (Z)            21.0          27.A          30.8       34.2
Adm. Exp./Avg. Assets (Z)              1.70          1.89          3.43       1.66
Tot. debt/Equity (times)              20.1          40.9          49.8       70.8
Tot. Loans/Tot. Deposits (times)       1.2           1.0           1.7        1.2
Industry Loans/Tot. Loans (2)         57.5          45.3          11.9       31.2
4.       Since the June 1983 reforms, these SCBs have been in an ongoing
process of reviewing their respective strategies. operational policies,
internal management and information systems, staff strength and operational
costs, in an effort to become more efficient. BNI 1946 has recently
completed, and is in the process if implementing, a major organizational
reform program to improve their r,rganizational structure, banking policies and
management guidelines, and to el.reamline the credit process. BRI engaged a
consulting firm of international repute: (a) to carry out an in-depth eval-
uation of its organization, strategy, operations and proficability; and (b) to
recommend institutional, operational and marketing/strategy changes. The
ensuing Action Plan is now being implemented. On a smaller scale, BDN is also
implementing an organizational and systems improvement program. BBD has
obtained the assistance of large multi-national banks to help them improve
specific aspects of their operations. Some have already made a number of
improvements, particularly in the credit process, internal audit, accounting
procedures, branch operations, planning and budgeting. However, as SCBs are
large institutions, the process of institutional reform has been lengthy. It
is still premature to attempt to evaluate the results of these improvement
programs on the operating performance of the individual SCBs.
Organization, Management and Staffing
5.       Each of the four participating SCBs has its head office in Jakarta
and operates an extensive branch network. These banks together had 698
branches (plus an additional 201 auxiliary branches/cash offices) as of
December 31, 1987, ranging from 89 for BBD to 299 for BRI. Total employees
numbered 46,798--ranging from 7,654 for BDN to 19,660 for BRI.l/ The
organizational structure for each SCB is basically the same: a Board of
Managing Directors comprises the President-Director and three-to-four Managing
Directors, all appointed by Government for five-year (renewable) terms. These
Boards are responsible for implementing general policy guidelines issued by
1/ These figures exclude BRI's 2,338 Unit Desas (village subbranches)
which employ almost 12,000 people. (Refer BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit
Proiect, Report No. 6579-IND dated April 7, 1987.)



- 75 -                        APendis 2
Page 3
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and BI, and are in charge of the day-to-day
management of their respective banks. Each bank has a Supervisory Board
(Government-appointed) which oversees the Board of Managing Directors.
Procedures
6.       In each of the SCBs, loan applications are initiated at the branch
level (in certain instances, large corporate clients deal directly with the
head office in Jakarta). Branches are responsible for the initial evaluation
of a loan application and compiling all supporting documentation. Loan
approval authority, however, remains essentially centralized. The Branch
Manager's approval authority is very limited, and varies among the SCBs
ranging from Rp 50 million to Rp 200 million (about US$29,400-117,600
equivalent). Where loan applications are processed through the Regional
Office, the Regional Manager's approval authority is limited to loans not
exceeding Rp 300 million (or approximately UR$176,500 equivalent).  At Jakarta
headquarters, the approval authority of the head of respective credit depart-
ments varies from Rp 300 million to Rp 500 million (about US$176,500-294,lO0).
All loans exceeding these amounts are approved by the Board of Managing
Directors. Ho-wever, none of the SCBs operates a formal loan committee.
7.       Loan evaluation procedures are well-established in the SCBs.  Al-
t:Lough formats vary from bank to bank, the information, documentation and
analysis required are basically the same. Loan applications are evaluated on
the basis of standard credit-worthiness _riteria including the capability of
the entrepreneur, the financial position of the enterprise, market prospects,
and collateral. For investment loans exceeding Rp 500 million, audited finan-
cial statements and a feasibility study are normally required as part of the
project sponsor's loan application. With respect to the technical, procure-
ment and environmental aspects of a project proposal. the SCBs place consider-
able emphasis on the experience and repu%.ation of the project sponsor and the
accompanying feasibility study; if technical issues do arise, outside consul-
tants are engaged directly by the banks for advice.
8.       While full appraisals and evaluations are done by the branches,
projects are reappraised once received in Jakarta head offices. This is seen
as a necessary quality-control measure. Analysts in the head offices
generally are better trained than their branch counterparts.
9.       Responsibility for project supervision rests primarily with the
branch in charge of the client account. Branches are required to report
month'.y on project status and account movements. Project supervision, how-
ever, takes place through almost daily scrutiny of account movements as well
as through regular on-site visits, with the more important loans and invest-
ments also supervised by the head office credit departments. These appraisal
and supervision procedures are considered adequate for their current term
lending operations. As all the four SCBs are assuming a more active role in
channelling Bank funds to industry, they are taking steps to accelerate their
training programs for improving the project appraisal capability of their
staff.



- 76 -                      Appendix 2
Page 4
Financial Position
10.      The composite financial positions of the four participating SCBs over
the period 1985-87 and the first six months of 1988 are summarized in
Attachment 1 (individual summary balance sheets for the four banks are
available in the Project File).2/ During 1985-87, total assets of the four
SCBs grew by 721, from Rp 20.8 trillion as of December 31, 1984, to Rp 35.7
trillion (US$21.0 billion equivalent) as of December 31, 1987, with individual
growth rates for the four banks over this period varying between 472 and 103Z.
A further overall increase of around 102 was registered in the first six
months of 1988. This rapid growth reflects the impact of the June 1983
financial sector reforms.
11.      As shown in Table 1 below, lo;ns as of June 30, 1988 accounted for
approximately 722 of total assets, compared to 702 for 1987, and 642 for both
1985 and 1986.
21 Because the historical development of the four SCBs (paras. 1 and 2)
has resulted in considerable similarity in their basic financial
positions and financial performance, the ensuing analysis has been done
on an aggregate basis.



- 77 -                         Appendix 2
Page 5
Table lt SUMMARY OF THE FOUR PARTICIPATING SCBs' LENDING AND BORROWING
OPERATIONS, 1985-87 AND JAN.-JUNE, 1988
(Rp billion)
1985         1986            1987     June 1988
Total Assets               24.880.4     32.088.5        35,717.8      39,203.3
Total Loan Portfolio la   16,089.0      20,451.0        24,95i.8      28,113.6
Long-term                 7,781.8     10,015.4        11,841.1      28,113.6/b
Short-term                8,307.2     30,435.6        13,110.7           0.0
Total Borrowings           22,673.7     29,085.8        32,546.5      36,507.5
Long-Term                 6.674.8      8.280.0         9.102.8      13.781.3
Time deposits               699.6        888.2           816.7       4,632.2
BI & other gov't loans   4,979.4       6,679.8         7,976.5       8,560.9
Other                       995.8        712.0           309.6         588.2
Short-Term               15,998.9     20,805.8        23,443.7      22,726.2
BI loans                  2,896.9      3.199.3         3,844.0       3,839.4
Customer deposits        12,969.1     17,380.7        19,419.8      18,845.7
Demand                  4,005.7      4,456.9         4,618.8       4,329.6
Time                    8,195.6     11,936.7        13,599.7      13,342.6
Savings                   767.8        987.1         1,021.3       1,173.5
Other                         132.9        225.8           179.9           41.1
Total Equity                  528.7        767.0           930.7       1,040.5
Ratios
Equity:Total assets (X)        2.1          2.4             2.6            2.7
Total loan portfoliostotal
deposits (2)              117.7        111.9           123.3         119.7
Total loan portfolio less
loans from BI/GOIs
Total deposits (Z)         60.1         57.9            64.9          66.9
Total loan portfolio:total
assets (X)                 64.7         63.7            69.9          71.7
BI/GOI loans:Total
borrowings (2)             34.7         34.0            36.3          34.0
Long-term debt:Equity         12.6         10.8             9.8           n.a.
Total debt:Equity             46.1         40.8            37.4          36.7
la   Before provision for bad debts.  Total loan portfolio at end-1984 was Rp
13,864 billion.
lb   Long-term loans include short-term loans; detailed breakdown not
available at midyear.
The incremental volume of credit extended by the four SCBs during this period
amounted to Rp 14.3 trillion including Rp 2.2 trillion in 1985, Rp 4.4 tril-
lion in 1986, Rp 4.5 trillion in 1987 and Rp 3.2 trillion in January-June
1988. Short-term securities accounted for another 23t of total assets while
other long-term investments (including equity participations) accovnted for
1.5Z. The assets and liabilities structures of the four SCBs, on a composite
basis, seem reasonably matcned; about 1OZ of the four SCBs' long-term assets
are financed with short-tern liabilities. While this level of term transform-
ation is prudent and provides room for expansion, it also demonstrates the
need for additional term resoarces if the four SCBs are 1-o increase their term
lending activities. Although BI and other Government loans, most of which
represent channeled and directed furds, continue to a.ccount for a substantial



- 78 -                         Appendix 2
Page 6
portion of the SCBs' resources (especially long-term), the importance of these
loans has been diminishing in recent years--from about 39Z of total
liabilities in 1982 to 32Z by 1987.
12.      As of December 31, 1987, long-term and working capital loans to
industries accounted for 352 of the total loan portfolios of the four SCBs,
while long-term investment loans to all sectors accounted for 432. The
percentage breakdown of the portfolios of the individual banks is shown below:
By loan period                        By industry
inaustriai
Long-term         Working-capital         loans           others
investment loans           loans          (long-term      (long-term
to all sectors       to all sectors    & short-term)  & short-term)
z                     X                 X               2
BDN             57.3                   42.7              57.5            42.5
BNI 1946        45.7                   54.3              45.3            54.7
BRI             22.5                   77.5              11.9            88.1
BBD              52.4                  47.6              31.2            68.8
13.      The equity base of the four SCBs is low, with aggregate equity
accounting for 2.62 of total assets. Their authorized capital as established
under Law Nos. 18-22 of 1968 has not been increased; and because the
Government appropriates 452 of annual net profits, the SCBs have had
difficulty in building up their respective capital bases rhrough retained
earnings. The Government recognizes that, consistent with the thrust of the
financial sector reforms initiated in 1983, the capital base of the SCBs needs
to be strengthened. Under the recent financial reform package (October 1988),
all banks and non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs) are now allowed to
increase their capital through the issuance of new shares on the capital
market, in addition to increasing the equity participation of the existing
shareholders.
Financial Performance
14.      Aggregated income statements for the period 1985-87 and January-June
1988 are summarized in Attachment 2 (income statements for the individual SCBs
are available in the Project File), w:;th an overview of the four SCBs'
composite financial performance presented in Table 2 below.



Appendix 2
- 79 -                            Page 7
Tabl- 2: INDICATORS OF THE FOUR SCBs' FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE,
1ssF-s7 AND JAN.-JUNE 1968
June
1986       1986        197         1966
Average Total Assets (Rp billion)      22,063.9    28,484.6    88,903.2   87,460.6
Average Loan Portfolio (Rp billion)    14,976.4    ld,270.0    22,701.4   26,582.7
Average Borrowings (Rp billion)        20,687.9    25,879.6     9,6818.2   84,527.0
Average Equity (Rp l'llion)               527.8       647.9       841.9      986.8
As a X of Average Total Assets
(a) Incom, from lending                     7.16        6.76        7.57       7.90
(b) Other Income                            8.44        6.15        3.68       1.46
(c) Gross lncom                            10.60       11.98       11.20       9.85
(d) Financial expenses                      8.84        6.60        7.62       5.e0
(e) Gross spread (c-d)                      8.77        5.48        4.19       8.75
(f) Salary and personnel expenses           1.41        1.36        1.13       1.13
(g) Other administrative expenses           0.96        0.89        0.98       0.74
(h) Provision for bad debts                 0.77        1.98        1.a6       e.9s
(i) Profit before tax                       0.84        1.05        1.U4       0.90
(j) Net profit                              0.86        0.68        0.65       0.58
Return on Average Total Equity (U)         16.86       28.99       28.07      22.20
lL ndin Margin
(k) Incom from lending as a X of           A0.98       10.57       11.80      11.16
average loan portfolio
(1) Financial expense as a X of             7.68        7.18        7.72       6.098
average borrowings
(m) Spread on lending (k-I)                 8.37        8.42        .568       6.08
Cumulative Provision for Bad Debts as
a N of Outstandina Loan Portfolio         8.68        8.86        8.76       4.21
Net profit as a percentage of both average total assets and average total
equity improved significantly in 1986 and 1987.  While "other income" (in
particular, windfall profits resulting from the September 1986 devaluation of
the rupiah) accounted largely for the improvement in 1986, there were two
positive developments that contributed to the 1987 performance: an
improvement in the SCBs' lending margin reflecting the impact of deregulated
interest rates (3.62 in 1987 compared to 3.32 in 1985 and 1986); and a reduc-
tion in (i) salary and personnel expenses as well as (ii) other administrative
expenses--2.092 of average total assets in 1987 compared to 2.37Z in 1985 and
2.442 in 1986. During this period, the SCBs managed to reduce their total



- 80 -                        Appendix 2
Page 8
staff by 390 (from 47,188 to 46,798) while expanding their branch offices by
53 and their auxiliary branches/cash offices by 40. Recent efforts by the
SCBs to improve operational efficiencies (para. 4) thus appear to be suc-
ceeding.
Portfolio Quality
15.      The four SCBs classify their respective loan portfolios, as required
by BI, on the basis of collectibility (i.e., regular, often late, special
attention and liquidation). As shown in Attachment 3, as of December 31,
1987, about 94Z of loans of the four SCBs were classified as regular, with 52
classified as often late and requiring special attention and 1? for
liquidation. However, since the criteria used in classifying 'regular"
accounts are not clearly specified, the classification of accounts is a
relatively subjective exercise. Aging of arrears is not a standard procedure
within the SCBs. However, they are designing ways to improve their supervi-
sion and analysis of doubtful and delinquent loans, in the process of imple-
menting their improvement programs. All the four SCBs regularly set aside
provisions to cover possible losses on their loan portfolio and write off bad
debts. As of December 31, 1987, the four SCBs' combined provisions for bad
debts constituted 3.8? of their outstanding loan portfolios. Considering that
the credit risk of a substantial portion (36?) of their loan portfolio is
assumed by BI or the Government, the provisions represented a higher percent-
age (around 6Z) of their net risk assets. However, it is difficult to arrive
at a reliable assessment of the loan portfolio quality of each SCB given the
information available. A review of each bank's loan portfolio by auditors
each year would be very helpful.



- 81 -                        Appendix 2
Page 9
II. The Three Participating Regional Development Banks
Overview of All Regional Development Banke in Indonesia
Number:            There are altogether 27 Regional Development Banks in
Indonesia, one in each province.
Ownership:         The shares in the RDBs are held by:  (a) the provinces
(first grade, autonomous regions); and (b) Level II (secoad
grade) regions of the respective provinces (Regencies and
Municipalities).
Objectives:        The objectives of RDBs are to foster economic development
of the regions, raise the standard of living and improve
the welfare of the people. It is very difficult for
development activities to be carried out by the national
government alone to fulfill the aspirations of a population
distributed over an area that is so vast and characterized
by so many dissimilarities. The best distribution of
development activities is possible only if the regional
governments can be made involved as much as possible. RDBs
are established to enable the provinces to mobilize
resources for the development of the respective regions.
Main Activities
(a) Provision of investment and working capital loans to enterprises and
consumption loans to individuals based in the province;
(b) Acting as a channel for the provision of Liquidity and Special
Credits provided by the Central Government or Provincial Government;
(c) Provision of long-term credit through co-financing arrangements with
BAPINDO and UPPINDO;
(d) Acting as treasurer of the regional government and performing such
other duties and tasks as the regional government may require of
them.
(e)  Provision of BKK credit (to subdistricts).
(f) Provision of technical assistance to small-scale enterprises.
Resource Mobilization
(a) Funds from the public: demand deposits, time deposits, savings
deposits;
(b) Provincial budget investment credits;
(c) Long-term loans from Bank Indonesia;



- 82 -                        Appendix 2
Page 10
(d) Rediscount facilities of Bank Indonesia (including investment credits
refinanced by BI on a case-by-case basis) and KIK and KMKP liquidity
credit;
(e) Funds available from BAPINDO and UPPINDO under co-financing
arrangements;
(f) Share capital--the capital is supposed to be increased annually by
(i) a certain amount to be provided from the provincial budget, and
(ii) 1OZ of the IPEDA or regional development tax;
(g) Since RDBs perform treasury functions for the provinces and as such
are holders of cash resources of the provinces, these resources in
many instances are very substantial. Such resources are not
generally used for RDB operations, particularly medium- and long-term
lending and investment.
16.      Restrictions on Borrowers.  No investment credit can be made
available to economically strong or foreign companies. This restriction is
relaxed if the RDB is using only its own resources for lending or investment.
17.      Total Volume of Operations of all RDBs.  During tfte period from
January 1, 1974 to February 28, 1988, total lending of all IDBs, in different
types and forms, amounted to Rp 980 billion, accounting for 2.9Z of total
lending (Rp 33,503 billion) of the financial sector (including direct credit
from BI, lending from state commercial banks, national private banks, regional
development banks and foreign Banks).
18.      Evaluation of RDBs by BI.  All banks in the banking system (including
RDBs) are checked quarterly by BI as to their degree of soundness, and
classified accordingly as: (a) sound; (b) fairly sound; (c) not fully sound
(less than healthy); and (d) not sound (not healthy).
19.      As of April 30, 1988, BI classified the RDBs as follows (the two RDBs
in Central and Southeast Sulawesi are not included):
Condition               Number of RDBs              Percentage
Sound                           7                       28Z
Fairly sound                   16                       64S
Not fully sound                 2                        8Z
Not sound                       0                        0
Total                   25                      100Z



- 83--                        Appendix 2
Page 11
Regional Develonment Bank - Central Java
20.      Organization. Management and Staffing.  The Regional Development Bank
of Central Java (RDB-CJ) was established in 1963 with an initial authorized
share capital of Rp 6 billion, which has been increased since then to Rp 17
billion. As of September 30, 1988, the authorized share capital has been
fully paid up. Fifty five percent of the shares are held by the first level
government (Provincial Government) and the remaining 452 by the second level
governments (Sub-Provincial Governments). RDB-CJ's Head Office is located at
Semarang and there are 28 branches. At the top of the organization structure
is the Board of Supervisors consisting of the Governor of the Province, Deputy
Governor, Head of the Finance Bureau and a representative of a Sub-Provincial
Government. The Board of Supervisors deals with policies and broad operating
guidellnes. Day-to-day operations are looked after by the Board of Directors
comprising the President Director and two Managing Directors. The operational
functions are divided over seven Bureaus: Planning, Accounting and Finance,
Credit, General Affairs, Secretariat, Personnel and Supervision. Credit
operations are conducted by four divisions under the Credit Bureau:
(a) General Credit, (b) KIK/KMRP; (c) Investment and Working Capital Credits,
and (d) Investment Credit for Transport. The Supervision Bureau has four
Divisions dealing with (a) General Supervision (including Internal Audit),
(b) Credit Supervision, (c) Supervision of District Level Informal Credit
Institutions, and (d) Supervision of Branches. As of September 30, 1988,
RDB-CJ employed 1,061 staff, comprising 234 officers and 827 supporting staff.
During the past two years, 65 staff have attended different training seminars
held outside the RDB and 638 staff have attended courses organized within the
RDB. No one was sent for training overseas. During the fiscal year ending
March 31, 1989, RDB-CJ plans to send 34 staff for training outside the bank
including two for studies abroad, and 457 for in-house training. During the
following two years, the numbers of staff to be trained outside the RDB and
internally would be 303 and 572, respectively. Four of them will be sent
abroad for further studies. Management, project appraisal and supervision,
and foreign languages have been assigned high priorities in both external and
internal training.
21.      Policies and Procedures.  RDB-CJ assigns high priority to assisting
economically weak borrowers, with 752 of its loans extended to them. Ten
percent of the loans are for regional government projects.  The remaining 152
can be made available to enterprises which are economically strong. The RDB
is focussing more attention on non-oil export, shipping and other foreign
exchange generating projects.  For the fiscal year 1988/89, RDB-CJ plans to
make 6CZ long-term loans and 402 short-term loans.  The RDB has
well-established procedures for processing loan applications. Loans up to
Rp 25 million are approved by Bureau Chiefs (also Branch Managers), Rp 25-150
million by the Board of Directors and above Rp 150 million by the Board of
Supervisors.
22.      Operations.  As of March 31, 1988, RDB-CJ's total loan portfolio
amounted to Rp 162 billion (US$97,300,000) of which 732 is medium- and long-
term and 272 short-term. Sixty percent of its loans were extended to small
and handicraft factories with no more than 20 employees, 252 to factories



- 84 -                         Anpendix 2
Page 12
employing 20-150 workers and the remaining 152 to relatively large enterprises
with more than 150 workers. The projects cover a wide range of sectors.
Loans to trade, hotels and restaurants accounted for 41? of the loan
portfolio, car loans, loans to employees and services 27?, followed by
industry (142), construction (12x), agriculture (42) and transportation (2?).
23.      Financial Position.  During the four-year period from March 31, 1984
to March 31, 1988, RDB-CJ's total assets have increased almost threefold--from
Rp 80.7 billion to Rp 217.6 billion (Attachment 4). The average annual rate
of growth of its total assets was 28.5?. During the same period, its loan
portfolio registered a higher annual growth rate of 29.6?, reaching Rp 162
billion as of March 31, 1988 constituting 74? of total assets. Cash and
short-term placements accounted for 21? of total assets. More than half (53?)
of the RDB's assets were financed with customer deposits (including deposits
by the Regional Government) and 30? with loans from Bank Indonesia. The total
debt to equity ratio reached 6.4:1 at March 31, 1988. The average rates of
increase of share capital (19.7Z) and equity (16.8?) over the 4-year period
were much lower than that of total assets (28.5Z). Therefore, the total
debt/equity ratio rose from 4.9:l in 1983t1984 to 6.4sl in 1987188. Borrowing
from BI increased sharply over the past year. In 1983/1984, BI loans
accounted for 2.4 times of the RDB's share capital. In 1987/1988, BI loans
were more than four times the RDB's share capital. This indicates that BI is
becoming the most important source of funds to finance RDB-CJ's operations.
24.      Financial Performance.  RDB-CJ's Income Statements for the past five
years are included in Attachment 5. Net profit after tax has increased at an
average rate of 17? during the past five years, from Rp 2.7 billion in
1983/1984 to Rp 5.9 billion in 1987/1988. The average annual return on share
capital was 33.3? and the return on equity was 21.5? over the same period,
which was satisfactory. The average interest spread ranged from 8.2Z to 9.5?
during the same period. Operating expenses represented around 4? of average
total assets.
25.      Quality of Portfolio.  RDB-CJ's loan portfolio is classified into
four categories: A - Sound, B - Less Sound, C - Doubtful, and D - Bad. As of
March 31, 1988, 96? of the portfolio was classified as "sound,a 0.7? as "less
sound," 2.52 as "doubtful," and 0.8? as "bad."  RDB-CJ reviews its portfolio
every year and decides on the amount to be written off against the loans
classified as 'bad." Annual bad debt write-offs during 1983/1984-1987/1988
ranged from 0.90? to 1.21Z of the year-end loan portfolio. At March 31, 1988,
"bad" loans amounts for 0.82? of the year-end loan portfolio.
Regional Development Bank - East Java
26.      Or anization. ManaRement and Staffing.  The Regional Development Bank
of East Java (RDB-EJ) was estpblished in 1961 in thte form of a limited company
(PT) with an initial authorized share capital of fp 1 billion.  In 1976, RDB-
EJ was changed to a regional government agency.  The authorized share capital
has been increased to Rp 20 billion, of which Rp 19.2 billion was paid up as
of September 30, 1988. RDB-EJ's Head Office is located at Surabaya and it has
thirteen branches and one sub-branch. It is managed by a Board of Supervisors
and a Board of Directors, the former dealing with policies and general
guidelines and the latter focusing on day-to-day operations. The Board of



- 85 -                      Appendix 2
Page 13
Supervisors is composed of six members: Vice Governor, Head of the Bureau of
Economic Development, and four officials from local governments. The Board of
Directors has three members including the President Director and two Managing
Directors. There are six Bureaus: Research and Planning, Finance and
Accounting, Credit, General Affairs, Personnel, and Supervision. Credit
operations are conducted by five Divisions under the Credit Bureau:
(a) General Credit; (b) KIRIKMKP; (c) Medium- and Long-term Investment Credit;
(d) Credit Supervision; and (e) Administrative, Statistics and Reporting. The
Supervision Bureau deals with internal audit of both financial accounts and
credit operations. Project supervision work is exclusively carried out by the
Credit Bureau. As of September 30, 1988, RDB-EJ employed 776 staff, including
174 officers at different managerial levels, 481 general staff, and 120
supporting staff. During 1986-87, 158 staff attended different courses
conducted by the training institutes in Surabaya and Jakarta and 184 staff
received in-house training.  Training courses were given for an additional 163
staff during April-June 1988.
27.      Policies and Procedures. RDB-EJ's lending has been targeted to small-
scale enterprises of all sectors. In order to perform the development banking
functions, RDB-EJ has been following a policy of allocating at least 602 of
its resources in the form of medium- and long-term loans. The repayment
periods of such loans are from three to eight years. There is no size limit
for loans made out of its own resources. In each case, the project sponsor is
required to provide equity capital equivalent to 302 of the project cost. In
the past, about 602 of loan applications were rejected simply because of the
inability of the sponsors to provide adequate equity capital. The RDB has
established procedures for processing loan applications. Loans up to Rp 20
million are approved by Bureau Chiefs (also Branch Managers), Rp 20-50 million
by the Board of Directors, and above Rp 50 million by the Board of
Supervisors. All loan proposals above Rp 50 million are reviewed by the Loan
Committee consisting of the Chiefs of the Credit Bureau and the Supervision
Bureau, before submission to the Board of Supervisors for final approval.  A
feasibility study prepared by a consulting firm is required for all project
proposals above Rp 100 million. The feasibility studies generally include a
conclusion about the project's viability. A separate appraisal by the RDB's
own staff is always necessary because the validity of the consultant firm's
conclusion is sometimes open to question. The management of RDB-EJ feels that
the consultant industry in Indonesia is in need of upgrading.
28.      Operations.  As of March 31, 1988, RDB-EJ's total loan portfolio
amounted to Rp 90.7 billion (US$54,400,000), of which approximately 602 is
medium- and long-term and 40Z short-term. The outstanding working capital and
investment loans to industry amounted to Rp 10.39 billion, accounting for
11.52 of the total loan portfolio. The distribution of the industrial loan
portfolio is as follows:
No. of          2                               X
Enterprises    of No.          Amount       of Amount
Size of Enterprise                                     (Rp m=on)
LarRe                     3             1.5           8,047             77.5
Medium                   16             8.0           1,491             14.4
Small                   180            90.5             842              8.1
IY;           IOU_.5         Tlo,8            IWX



- 86 -                        Appendix 2
Page 14
Based on the RDB's criteria, enterprises employing from less than 20 workers
are classified as small, 21-100 as medium and more than 100 workers as large.
29.      Financial Position.  During the five-year period from April 1, 1983
to March 31, 1988, RDB-EJ's total assets have increased three and one-half
times - from Rp 48.4 billion to Rp 162.5 billion (Attachment 6). The average
annual rate of growth of its total assets was 37.8Z. During the same period,
its loan portfolio registered a higher average annual growth rate of 48Z,
reaching Rp 89.5 billion, as of March 31, 1988, representing 552 of total
assets. However, the RDB was still in a very liquid position with cash in
banks totalling Rp 55.4 billion, or 34? of total assets (and corresponding to
62Z of the total loan portfolio). While it was necessary to keep an adequate
cash balance in order to perform the treasury functions for the province, this
level of liquidity appears excessively high. This aspect should be under
constant review by the RDB's management and if the funds management needs to
be strengthened, necessary action should be taken, including training and
upgrading the staff who are assigned to manage the RDB's funds flow on a daily
basis. Approximately 67? of the assets were financed with customer deposits.
Moreover, funds provided by BI and the province increased sharply (from Rp 7.7
billion as of March 31, 1986 to Rp 19.9 billion as of March 31, 1988 and to
Rp 39.4 billion as of September 30, 1988). The total debt-to-equity ratio
reached almost 8:1 in 1985. Share capital has increased more than threefold
during FY 1986-88 (from Rp 4.7 billion as of March 31, 1986 to Rp 16.1 billion
as of March 31, 1988). As a result, RDB-EJ's total debt to equity ratio
dropped to 5.7:1. In order to enable the RDB to expand its volume of
business, both BI and the provincial government are prepared to provide
additional resources, which are of medium and long-term. It is clear that
RDB-EJ will have sufficient matching local currency funds when it starts to
finance sub-loans under the proposed SMIE Project.
30.      Financial Performance.  During the four years from March 31, 1984 to
March 31, 1988, RDB-EJ's net profits increased more than fivefold, at an
average rate of increase of around 632 a year, from Rp 624 million in
1983/1984 to Rp 3.4 billion in 1987/88 (Attachment 7). However, bad debt
write-offs for the same period were also substantial, totaling Rp 5.47
billion, against total before-tax profits of Rp 16 billion, i.e., more than
35? of the RDB's before-tax profits had to cover the bad debt write-offs.
RDB-EJ's average interest spread has been above 10? for the period, dropping
from an average of 11.4? during 1983/84-1985/86 to an average of 10.3? during
1986/87-1987/88. The RDB's return on equity was satisfactory as a result of
the high level of low-cost debts in its capital structure during the past
year.
31.      Quality of Portfolio.  The amount of loans classified as 'bad"
reached 6.1? of the total loan portfolio as of March 31, 1984, which went up
to 7.4? as of March 31, 1985. After sizeable write-offs every year in the
past five years, the bad debt to loan portfolio ratio dropped to 2? as of
March 31, 1988. During the five-year period, only 60? of the loans classified
as *bad" were actually written off. The remaining 402, amounting to Rp 3.6
billion, represents 22? of the share capital and 27? of the equity as of March
31, 1988. The quality of RDB-EJ's loan portfolio needs to be considerably
improved so that future bad debt write-offs would not continue to depress the
bank's profitability.



- 87 -                        Appendix 2
Page 15
Regional Development Bank - North Sumatera
32.      Organization, Management and Staffing.  The Regional Development Bank
of North Sumatera (RDB-NS) was established in 1961 as a limited company and in
1965 was changed to a regional government agency. RDB-NS's initial authorized
share capital was Rp 1.5 billion, which has been increased to Rp 25 billion,
of which Rp 10 billion has been paid up as of June 30, 1988. The Head Office
is located at Medan and there are 17 branches. The Board of Supervision
consists of the Governor, Deputy Governor, Head of Finance Bureau and two
representatives of the local governments. The Board of Directors consists of
the President Director and two Managing Directors. Credit operations are
conducted by three Divisions under the Credit Bureau: (a) General Credit;
(b) Investment Credit; (c) Project Supervision. The Supervision bureau has
two Divisions dealing with Credit Supervision and Internal Audit. As of
June 30, 1988, RDB-NS employed 544 staff, comprising 134 officers and 410
supporting staff. During the past five years 426 staff have attended seminars
organized by different training institutes and the RDB it-elf. A plan for
training additional staff for the next three years (1988-90) has been worked
out, with around 100 staff to be trained each year. The courses would include
project appraisal, project supervision, credit management, banking, leadership
development, accounting and auditing. Ten staff will study in Indonesia and
abroad under the MBA Program.
33.      Policies and Procedures.  RDB-NS has been following the policy of the
Regional Government of North Sumatera to promote equal development of the
following sectors within the Region: agriculture, industry, mining, construc-
tion, trade, transport, and services. Priority is assigned to assisting
small-scale enterprises owned by pre-bumi shareholders. Bureau Chiefs have
the authority to approve all KI/KMK loans, working capital and investment
credit up to Rp 15 million and Civil employees credit up to Rp 200 million.
The Board of Directors approves KIK/KMKP loans above Rp 15 million and
sspecial program loans (refinancing from BI) up to Rp 150 million. KIIKMK
loans above Rp 75 million and other credits of large size are approved by the
Board of Supervisors. The Branch Managers have the authority to approve
working capital loans up to Rp 10 million, and civil employees credit up to
Rp 50 million.
34.      Operations.  As of December 31, 1987, RDB-NS's total loan portfolio
amounted to Rp 102 billion (US$61,300,000), of which 78Z was to KIK/XMKP
borrowers, 21Z to small- and medium-sized enterprises and 1Z to large
enterprises. RDB-NS classifies its borrowers on the basis of their assets
(excluding land and inventories). Productive enterprises with assets of not
more than Rp 100 million are classified as small-size, eligible for financing
under KIK/KMKP; enterprises with assets of not more than Rp 200 million are
classified as medium size; and large enterprises have assets of more than
Rp 200 million. Half of the RDB's portfolio are short-term working capital
and investment credits and the other half are medium- and long-term. Around
5Z of the short-term credits and 53Z of the medium- and long-term credits are
for fixed assets investments. The projects cover the following sectors:
agriculture (13.7Z), industry and mining (11.9Z), construction (21.8Z), trade
(24.3Z), transport (2.1Z) and others (26.22). The last item includes teachers
loans, loans for water and ele tricity installations for households and



- 88 -                        Appendix 2
Page 16
cooperatives. Loans to regional government and bank employees (for all
sectors such as home industries, husbandry, etc.) amounted to Rp 27.1 billion,
representing 26.62 of the portfolio. During the past five years. the sectoral
distribution of the loan portfolio has undergone noticeable changes:
agriculture increased from 8.62 in 1983 to 13.7Z in 1987. industry and mining
from 52 to 11.91, construction from 14.11 to 21.82, transport from 1.72 to
2.12, while trade dropped from 332 to 24.3Z. Fixed assets investment loans to
industrial projects accounted for around 32 of RDB-NS's portfolio at end-1987.
RDB-NS has had cofinancing operations with both BAPINDO and UPPINDO in the
past. At present, its cofinancing is with UPPINDO only. Loans above Rp 300
million have to be cofinanced with UPPINDO, and appraisal reports are prepared
jointly. RDB-NS has staff who are experienced in appraising large-sized
loans.
35.      Financial Position.  During the period from December 31, 1983 to
December 31, 1987, RDB-NS's total assets have increased 2.4 times--from
Rp 53.4 billion to Rp 127.7 billion (Attachment 8). The average annual rate
of growth of its total assets was 25.22. During the same period, its loan
portfolio increased at a higher average annual rate (272), reaching Rp 102
billion, representing 802 of total assets. Cash and short-term investments
accounted for 142 of total assets. Approximately 482 of the RDB's assets were
financed with customer deposits and 37.72 with loans from Bank Indonesia
(loans from Bank Indonesia alone were almost five times the paid-in share
capital). The total debt-to-equity ratio reached 9tl at December 31, 1987.
Total equity increased at an average annual rate of 182 during 1983-86, and in
1987 equity declined because of large bad debt write-offs.
36.      Financial Performance.  During 1983-87, RDB-NS's after tax profits
did not show a clear upward trend, the profits amounting to Rp 717 million in
1983 went up to Rp 937 million in 1984 and dropped to Rp 781 in 1985
(Attachment 9). The declining trend was reversed in 1986 when annual net
profit reached Rp 968 million, and in 1987 it increased to Rp 1.05 billion.
The profit decline in 1985 was attributable to higher interest cost and larger
bad debt write offs. Operating expenses increased from Rp 3 billion in 1983
to Rp 6.4 billion in 1987, representing 52 of total assets. The interest
spread registered a sharp decline, from an average of 10.92 during 1983-84, to
7.72 in 1986 and 6.52 in 1987.
37.      Quality of Portfolio.  The loans classified as "bad" increased from
Rp 433 million at December 31, 1983 to Rp 4.28 billion at Decel;ber 31, 1985,
and to Rp 4.34 billion at December 31, 1987, despite large write offs each
year, which averaged Rp 2.43 billion per year during 1985-87. The write-offs
representing 42 of the portfolio in 1986, declined to 22 in 1987. However, at
end-1987, bad loans of Rp 2.3 billion were still not written off, which
accounted for 232 of the shcre capital and 182 of total equity. RDB-NS's
annual net profit represented around 82 of average equity during 1985-87,
compared with 112 in 1984. This return appears to be low, and if annual
write-offs remain at a high level, the profitability is not expected to
improve soon.



Apnendix 2
- 89 -                         Page 17
III. The Four Participating Private Commercial Banks
Bank Duta
38.      Ownership, Organization and Management.  Bank Duta was established in
1966 with an authorized share capital of Rp 15.0 billion, of which Rp 13.5
billion is paid up. Seventy percent is held by private shareholders and 302
by a government-owned holding company. Bank Duta has a total of thirteen
branches and a staff of 1,056. Three of these branches are in Jakarta; the
other ten are in the cities of Medan, Pontianak, Surabaya, Ujung Pandang,
Bandung, Denpasar and Batam. The bank is headed by a Supervisory Board
consisting of four members, all senior government officials. The Supervisory
Board, which meets four times a year, deals essentially with broad policy
matters. The day-to-day management of the bank is vested in a Board of
Directors comprising the President Director and five Directors. All six
Directors are professional bankers.
39.      Lending Procedures.  Credit applications are processed by the Credit
Department either at the head office or at the branch level, depending on the
size of the credit. Each branch office has a credit limit that depends on the
size of the portfolio handled by the branch as well as the experience of the
management of the branch. All credit applications up to the branch discre-
tionary limit are processed by the branch Account Officer and are decided upon
by the branch Credit Committee without reference to the head office. For
credit amounts above the branch limit, applications are processed by the
branch Account Officer, reviewed by the branch Credit Committee and sent to
head office for final action. The applications are further reviewed by the
head office's Credit Committee, which can approve or decline applications for
credit amounts of up to Rp 250 million. Applications for credit amounts of
Rp 250 million to Rp 500 million are referred to the Credit Director for deci-
sion. The Credit Director can approve or decline credit applications within
this range, but his decision requires ratification by the President Director.
All applications for credit amounts of Rp 500 million and above are referred
to the President Director for decision. The maximum amount that Bank Duta can
lend to any single company is Rp 6.5 billion, equivalent to US$3.8 million (or
152 of its total equity). Borrowers are required to provide security of at
least 10OZ of loan amounts.
40.      Financial Position.  As of December 31, 1987, Bank Duta had total
assets of Rp 707.8 billion (US$416 million equivalent), having grown at an
average annual rate of about 222 during the past three years. Its total
assets registered a further increase of 17Z (to Rp 822 billion) during the
first six months of 1988 (Attachment 10). Loans constitute the bulk of Bank
Duta's assets--almost 74Z as of end-1987 (compared to 77Z and 68Z as of end-
1985 and end-1986, respectively), with marketable securities and other short-
term placements accounting for another 9Z. Bank Duta's loan portfolio as of
end-1987 amounted to Rp 518.9 billion. Term loans (over one year) represented
182 of total loans outstanding (the same as of end-1985 and end-1986).
However, a large number of the short-term loans, after annual reviews, are
rolled over for a further 12 months. Customer deposits (with maturities of
less than one year) are the main source of funds for financing Bank Duta's
lending operations, accounting for almost 812 of total borrowings; term
resources (mainly BI funds) account for less than 122 of total borrowings.



- 90 -                        Appendix 2
Page 18
Bank Duta's assets and liabilities structure is reasonably matched: as of
December 31, 1987, 85.5Z of total assets were short-term compared to 89.7? of
total liabilities (essentially the same as of end-1985 and end-1986). Over
the past three years, loans outstanding, as a percentage of deposits, have
been around 1002; adjusting for BI borrowings, this loans-to-deposits ratio
declined from 957 as of end-1985 to 87Z as of end-1987. Bank Duta's paid-in
share capital has been increased from Rp 13.5 billion to Rp 32.5 billion in
December 1988. Bank Duta's allocation of US$2.5 million under the proposed
project, together with the allocations of US$15 million under EDP II and US$4
million under IRP represents 60? of its equity as of December 31, 1988.
41.      Financial Performance.  As shown in Attachment 11, Bank Duta's annual
net income during the past three years has been steady, ranging between Rp 5.7
billion and Rp 6.7 billion (a return of about 25Z on average total equity).
As a percentage of average total assets, net (after tax) income has been
satisfactory although it has declined from 1.5Z to 1.1Z during 1985-87. Two
major factors contributed to this decline: first, annual personnel and
general administrative expenses increased significantly over the three-year
period (from Rp 11.4 billion in 1984 to Rp 23.4 billion in 1987) as a direct
result of Bank Duta's expansion of its branch network from four branches and
two subbranches in 1984 to thirteen branches in 1988; and second, as a result
of the economic recession that started in 1982, Bank Duta increased provisions
and corresponding write-offs in 1986 and 1987 to reflect that part of its
portfolio which it recognized as potentially unrecoverable. On the positive
side, Bank Duta's gross spread (total income less financial expenses) as a
percentage of average total assets, improved from 6.0% in 1985 to 6.5Z in
1987. In addition, Bank Duta has improved its average interest spread from
5.3% in 1986 to 7.2% in 1987.
42.      Portfolio Quality.  As of December 31, 1987, 96.42 of the portfolio
was classified as sound, 1.8% as substandard, 1% as dubious and 0.8% as bad
debts. Loans are reviewed every six months, with the doubtful and bad loans
reviewed every month. Overall, the quality of the portfolio is satisfactory.
Each branch has primary responsibility for supervision of the loans in its
portfolio. Overall loan portfolio supervision activities, however, are coor-
dinated by the Branch Credit Supervision Group at the head office comprising
two senior managers. In addition to overseeing the supervision of the loan
portfolio, particularly of loans classified as doubtful, the group also super-
vises the activities of the branches. Bank Duta regularly makes provisions
against a portion of loans considered potentially unre:overable and writes off
losses during the year as they occur. Annual write-offs during 1986/87 repre-
sented about 1.5% of the average loan portfolio. The provisions at end-1987
amounted to Rp 600 million representing 0.1% of the loan portfolio, which is
low. The provisions remained unchanged as of June 30, 1988. Bank Duta's
practice of keeping provisions at a very low level tends to overstate its
annual profitability.



- 91 -                        Appendix 2
Page 19
Bank Niaga
43.      Ownership, Organization and Management.  Bank Niaga was established
in 1955 with an authorized share capital of Rp 15.0 billion, of which Rp 14.4
billion is paid up.  Ninety percent is held by private shareholders and 102 by
Bl. It has twenty-four branches: eight in Jakarta, fifteen in other major
Indonesian cities and one in Los Angeles. Bank Niaga's activities are
supervised by a Board of Commissioners whichi also establishes the bank's broad
operating guidelines and policies.  The Commi£sioners are appointed by the
shareholders and serve for a term of up to two years. The day-to-day
management of the bank is entrusted to a Board of Directors comprising the
President Director and two other Directors. All three are experienced
bankers.  The bank has a total of 1,790 employees.
44.      Lending Procedures.  Processing of cradit applications is the respon-
sibility of the branches. Credit applications are reviewed on the basis of
standard creditworthiness criteria with detailed cash flow analysis being
required for all investmeiit loans. All credit applications not exceeding the
branch's discretionary limit are processed and finalized at the branch level;
for credit amounts above this limit, applications are processed by the branch
Account Officer, reviewed by the branch credit committee and submitted to the
head office in Jakarta for action. At the head office, credit applications
are revs wed by a credit committee which is authorized to approve loans of up
to Rp 1 billion. Applications for credit amounts of Rp 1-2 billion are
referred to the senior Vice President in charge of credit, who makes the final
decision in consultation with any one of the three Directors. Loans of over
Rp 2 billion require approval of the President of the bank and at least one of
the other two Directors. Maximum exposure in a single company is limited (by
BI regulations) to a maximum of 15Z of the bank's share capital plus reserves.
currently amounting to Rp 4.3 billion. The maximum loan maturity is eight
years.. Bank Niaga usually requires borrowers to provide collateral security
of up to 150Z of the value of the loan amount; on a selective basis, regular
clients may be required to provide security covering only 80-1002 of the .oan
amount.
45.      Financial Position.  During 1985-87, Bank Niaga's total assets
increased almost threefold--from Rp 278.5 billion to Rp 781.2 billion at end-
1987 with another 29Z increase in the first six months of 1988 (Attachment
12). As of December 31, 1987, Bank Niaga's outstanding loan portfolio of
Rp 610.8 billion constituted the bulk (78.2S) of total assets; one-third of
this portfolio was long-term, i.e., with maturities of more than one year.
Marketable securities and other short-term placements accounted for another 72
of Bank Niaga's asset base. Customer deposits accounted for 912 of Bank
Niaga's total borrowings. BI liquidity credits, Bank Niaga's only other term
resources (apart from equity), represented less than 52 of t3tal borrowings
(corresponding figures for the end of 1985 and 1986 were 6.62 and 7.4?,
respectively). Over the past three years, loans outstanding as a percentage
of deposits have been slightly less than 1002; adjusting for BI funds, the
corresponding percentage has been around 912. This pattern is similar to that
of other private banks which, due to their small branch networks, are
generally net borrowers in the interbank money market (which has been very
active since June 1983). Following a share capital increase of Rp 4.5 billion



v.~4192 -                      Appendix 2
Page 20
in 1986, Bank Niaga's total equity had increased to Rp 25.4 billion by end-
1987. This represented a relntively high total debt to equity ratio of 30:1.
Bank Niaga's level of capitalization, however, is within BI guidelines. which
are based on a risk-weighing of assets under the capital adequacy formula.
Also, Bank Niaga's accounting policies, particularly regarding fixed assets,
tend tc underestimate the -ralue of assets and thus constitu.e an element of
hidden reserves.
46.      Financial Performance.  As shown in Attachment 13, net income during
the past four years has been increasing from Rp 3.5 billion in 1984 to Rp 7.7
billion in 1987 amounting to 1.2Z of average total assets and 282 of average
total equity. Pretax income showed an increase of 502 during the first six
months of 1988. Ninety-five percent of Bank Niaga's total gross income is
attributed directly to its loan portfolio. In addition to maintaining a good
quality portfolio (para. 47), Bank Niaga has been successful in recent years
both in maintaining adequate lending margins and in keeping operating expenses
(i.e., all expenses less financial) under control. As a percentage of average
total assets, operating expenses declined from 5.32 in 1985 to 5.2Z in 1986
and 4.8Z in 1987.
47.      Portfolio Quality.  The quality of Bank Niaga's portfolio is good.
As of December 31, 1987, 982 of the loans were classified as sound, less than
12 as substandard and 1Z as potential write-offs. Bank Niaga regularly
reviews the performance/status of all loans; those classified as substandard
and potential write-offs are reviewed on a continuing basis.  The branches
have primary responsibility for follow-up of their portfolios and are required
to submit monthly reports to the head office on progress made towards improv-
ing the performance of these loans. Provisions against doubtful loans during
each of the past three years have averaged about 0.62 of the outstanding loan
portfolio (annual write-offs have averaged about 0.42). As of December 31,
1987, the cumulative provisions for bad debts amounted to Rp 3.5 billion, or
0.62 of the outstanding loan portfolio.  The provisions were higher, at
Rp 5.6  billion as of June 30, 1988, representing 0.82 of the loan portfolio,
which still appears low. Bank Niaga is reviewing its loan portfolio on a
continuing basis and will make adequate provisions for doubtful accounts
henceforth.
Bank Umum Nasional
48.      Ownership, Organization and Management.  Bank Umum Nasional was
established in 1952 with an authorized share capital of Rp 2.5 million, of
which Rp 500,00G was then paid up by 20 shareholders. Since then, the share
capital has been increased four times. As of June 30, 1988 the authorized
share capital stood at Rp 25 billion, of which Rp 13.25 billion or 532 has
been paid up.  There are more than 1.000 shareholders.   Mr. Kaharudin Ongko
has been the Chief Executive Officer (President Director) of the bank since
1972. Starting with two branches in Java, Bank Umum Nasional has expanded its
branch network ..o include 23 branches and subbranches, scattered in ten
provinces. The bank has a total of 1,841 employees. At the top of the bank's
organizational structure is the Board of Cotmissioners consisting of the
President Commissioner and four members. The Board of Commissioners deals



- 93 -                         Appendix 2
Pag. 21
wit1h policies and broad operating guidelines. Day-to-day operaticns are
looked after by the Board of Directors comprising the President Director and
four Directors. All the Directors are experienced bankers.
49.      Lending Procedures.  Credit applications are processed by branches,
which have the authority to approve credits up to Rp 300 million. Credits
above this amount require approval by the Board of Directors. The maximum
size of loans which Bank Umum Nasional can extend is Rp S billion or US$3
million equivalent- This is in line with the general guidelina of BI that a
financial institution's exposure in a single company should not exceed 15? of
its equity. Bank Umum Nasional extends loans to all sectors. During recent
years, the bank has put more emphasis on lending to industry and foreign
exchange operations (foreign trade activities). The industrial loans, mostly
for working capital financing, accounted for 362 of its total loan portfolio,
compared with 27Z for trade, 11? for construction projects, 10? to service
sector and 16Z for government programs. Bank Umum Nasional has long had the
approval of the Government to carry out foreign transactions, correspondence
relationship has been established with several banks in foreign trade and
financial centers. As of June 30, 1988 out of its 23 branches and subbranch
offices, 11 have foreign exchange bank status, and four have a money changer's
license. Also, two representative offices are to be opened abroad.
50.      Financial Position.  During the period from December 31, 198' to June
30, 1988, Bank Umum Nasional's total assets increased more than threefold-
-from Rp 285 billion to Rp 878 billion. However, Bank Umum Nasional's loan
portfolio increased at a much lower rate (2872) than its total deposits
(334?). This is attributable to the fact that a portion of its resources
mobilized have been used to finance its foreign trade operations which require
the bank to put short-term deposit placements with foreign correspondence
banks. Short-term liquidity credits from BI have been declining since 1986.
After a 172 share capital increase in 1985, the paid-up share capital has
since remained unchanged. Interbank borrowings do not show a clear trend,
fluctuating from year to yedr. Therefore, it is clear that Bank Umum Nasional
has relied solely on deposit growth to expand its lending operations. BI has
never extended any long-term liquidity credits to Bank Umum Nasional.
However, Bank Umum Nasional has been more successful in term transformation
compared with other private commercial banks in Indonesia, and it has been
making term loans mostly for acquisition of residential houses and vehicles
during the past two years. As shown in Attachment 14, its term loans
represented an average of 652 of the total loan portfolio since end-1986.
Availability of World Bank funds would enable the bank to play a larger role
in providing term finance to industrial enterprises.
51.      Financial Performance.  Bank Umum Nasional's net profit has increased
at an average annual rate of 49? during 1984-86, from Rp 2.5 billion in 1984
to Rp 6.9 billion in 1986 (Attachment 15). The rate of increase went down to
14? in 1987 because of a narrowing of its interest spread, from an average of
8.7? in 1986 to 8.0? in 1987.  The profits in the first six months of 1988
continued to show a slower growth, because of further narrowing of the
interest spread (to 7.5Z).  Return on equity increased from 18.7? in 1984 to
32.9X in 1986 and then declined to 30? in 1987. In the first six months of
1988, it dropped further to 26.8?.  In 1987, export transactions amounted to
US$113.3 million compared with US$219 million in 1986 due to the "abolition of



- 94 -                        Apuendix 2
Page 22
Export Certificates" on certain types of commodities handled by the bank. The
decline of export transactions handled by the bank is another contributing
factor to the slower rate of increase of Bank Umum Nasional's profitability
during the past 18 months. The management is making effort to reverse this
trend.
52.      Quality of Portfolio.  The branches have primary responsibility for
follow-up of the loan portfolio and regular reports are submitted to the Head
Of4fice on the progress of project implementation. As of December 31, 1987,
i5.2Z of the loans were classified as sound, 3.7Z as substandard and dubious
and 1.1 as bad debt. Provisions for doubtful losas amounted to Rp 13.1
billion, accounting for 2.34Z of the loan portfolio, at the end of June 1988.
These provisions are sufficient to cover all bad debts.
Bank Central Asia
53.      Ownership, OrRanization and Management.  Bank Central Asia (BCA) was
established in 1957 by four individuals (Messrs. Goenardi, Suwandi and Anwar
and Mrs. Sofijah) with an authorized share capital of Rp 3 million of which
Rp 600,000 was initially paid up. At the end of 1987, its paid-up share
capital has been increased to Rp 32 billion. In its early years, BCA focussed
on the retail trade sector.  In the early 1970's, BCA expanded its operations
through the acquisition of other small private banks (Bank Sarana Indonesia in
1973, Bank Gemari in 1976 and Indo-Commercial Bank in 1979) and the addition
of branch offices.  As a result of vigorous efforts to expand its operations
by the shareholders and management, BCA became the largest private commercial
bank in Indonesia in 1981, a position it continues to hold today.  It has 65
branches in 43 cities in Indonesia, and three overseas branches in New York
City and the Bahamas, with a staff totalling 4,446.  BCA also made equity
investments in the following three financial institutions: (a) PT
Multinational Finance Corporation - a joint venture with the Long-Term Credit
Bank of Japan and the Royal Bank o- Scotland, (b) PT Central Sari Metropolitan
Leasing Corporation - a joint venture with Japan Leasing Corporation, and
(c) PT Sarana Bersama Pembiayaan Indonesia - a regional finance company
domiciled in Singapore and sponsored by the ASEAN Banking Council. BCA is
headed by a Board of Commissioners consisting of eight members. The Board of
Commissioners meets once a year and deals with broad policy matters. The day-
to-day business is conducted by the Board of Managing Directors comprising the
President and six Directors who meet weekly. Each Director supervises a
department.
54.      Lending Procedures.  Credit applications are initially processed
either by the Marketing Department at the Head Office or at the branch level.
After initial screening, credit analysis is done by the Credit Analysis
Division for submission to the Directors. Upon approval, loan documents are
reviewed by the Legal Department to ensure completeness. Drawdown, interest
payments and monitoring of repayment are handled b,y the Credit Administration
Division. The branch managers have the authority to approve credit
applications up to Rp 50-150 million, depending upon the experience and staff
strength of the branch. Applications for credit amounts up to Rp 200 million



- 95 -                        Appendix 2
Page 23
are ap-roved by the Marketing Director, Rp 500 million by the Credit Director,
and Rp 1.5 billion by the President. Credit applications of Rp 1.5-10 billion
require ihe approval of two Directors and those above Rp 10 billion are
referred to the Chairman for approval. Maximum exposure in a single company
is limited to 15Z of the bank's share capital pluo reserves, currently
amounting to Rp 13 billion (US$7.6 million). The present focus of BCA's
lending is trade financing, mainly for importers and exporters of consumer
goods. In the early years, BCA placed more emphasis on financing importers.
However, since the early 1980's, BCA's strategy has changed to financing the
non-oil exports. In 1987, lending to trading firms accounted for 552 of BCA's
operations, followed by industry (26Z), construction (3.7Z), services (2.5Z)
and transportation (1X). Most of the working capital and short-term loans to
industry were made to such subsectors as garments, furniture, foodstuffs,
toys, handtools and machinery. Forty-nine percent of the loans were below
Rp 100 million (US$59,000).
55.      Financial Position.  During the past three years, BCA's total assets
increased more than threefold - from Rp 464.8 billion at end-1984 to
Rp 1,526.3 billion at end-1987, with another 232 increase in the first six
months of 1988 (Attachment 16). As of December 31, 1987, BCA's outstanding
loan pcrtfolio of Rp 943.4 billion accounted for only 62Z of total assets.
Its cash, deposits with other banks and temporary investments accounted for
27? of total assets, which indicates that BCA was in a very liquid position at
end-1987. The liquid funds percentage increased to 33Z as of June 30, 1988
which appears to be excessively high. On the liability side of the balance
sheet, customer deposits accounted for 81.6Z of total borrowings, with
borrowing from other banks accounting for 13.5?. BI liquidity credits, BCA's
only other term resources (apart from equity), represented only 4.9? of total
borrowings. Over the past four years, loans outstanding, as a percentage of
deposits, have been between 762 and 83?, which was lower than the other
private commercial banks.  BCA's allocation of US$10 million under the
proposed project represents 22Z of its equity as of end-1987 and 20? as of
June 30, 1988. BCA's total debt to equity ratio has increased from 10.7:1 at
end-1984 to 15.1:1 at end-1986 and 20.8:1 at June 30, 1988. This ratio, while
on the high side, has met BI's criteria for capital adequacy.
56.      Financial Performance.  As shown in Attachment 17, BCA's annual net
income increased from Rp 7.6 billion in 1984 to Rp 8.5 billion in 1985, but
dropped to Rp 7 billion in 1986. The decline was attributable to the
cumulative effect on prior years up to December 31, 1985 of changing from a
straight line method to a declining balance method in computing depreciation
in 1986. In 1987, net profit went up sharply to Rp 11 billion and the upward
trend was sustained during the first six months of 1988. The return on equity
was 15? in 1987, compared to 11.8? in 1986 and 18? in 1985, with an average
much lower than other participating private commercial banks. BCA's
administrative expenses increased from Rp 25 billion in 1984 to Rp 60.9
billion in 1987, an increase of 144? compared to an increase of 442 in
profitability. Its administrative expenses as a percentage of total assets
were comparable to those of other private commercial banks but its excessively
liquid position during this period has depressed its profitability
considerably.



- 96 -                      Appeudix 2
Page 24
57.      Quality of Portfolio.  BCA's Board of Managing Directors reviews the
performance of loans monthly. Monitoring of loans has alt-ays been assigned
high priority. As of December 31, 1987, 98.53Z of the loans were classified
as sound, 1.34Z as substandard and 0.13Z as bad debt. Loan arrears as of end-
1987 amounted to Rp 9.2 billion, representing 0.982 of the outstanding loan
portfolio. The aging of the arrears is as followss 312 of the arrears were
0ess than six months; 17Z between 6-12 months, and 52? over a year.
Provisions for bad debt amounted to Rp 14.9 billion, representing 1.58Z of the
loan portfolio. The provisions were more than adequate to cover all potential
losses of the loan portfolio as of December 31, 1987.



97 A-pendix 2
Page 25
IV. The Two Participating National Oevelopment Banks
Indonesia Development Finance Company (UPPINDOtIDFC)
58.      Establishment and Objectives.  The IDFC was established under the
name OPT Usaha Pembiayaan Pembangunan Indonesia' (UPPINDO) in 1972 by BI a.,'
the Netherlands Finance Company for Developing Countries (FMO) with the objec-
tive of supporting the development of the Indonesian economy by financing
(through loans and equity) and providing technical assistance to commercially
viable projects. UPPINDO's authorized share capital is Rp 20 billion, of
which Rp 17.2 billion has been paid in. BI holds 75? of the capital and FMO
the remaining 25Z.
59.      Management, Staffing and Organization.  UPPINDO operates under the
usual Indonesian two-tier board system. The Board of Supervisory Directors,
which comprises the Chairman (who is also a Managing Director of BI) and four
other members, lays down policy guidelines and supervises policy execution by
the Board of Managing Directors, which is responsible for the day-to-day
management of UPPINDO and the execution of policy directives. The Board of
Managing Directors consists of the President Director and one Managing
Director. It has the authority to decide on investments of up to Rp 1 billion
to a single client and a one-time repeat financing to the same client of
another Rp 500 million maximum. Four Deputy Managing Directors oversee
operations (divided into East and West Indonesia), Finance and the
Secretariat, Research and Legal Functions. UPPINDO has no branches but
operates a small liaison office in Surabaya. At the end of 1987, UPPINDO
employed 125 staff, of whom 65 were professional. UPPINDO relies on both in-
house and external courses for its staff development program.
60.      Policies and the Credit Process.  UPPINDO's Statement of "General
Principles of Management and Investment Policy' (held on file) details the
company's objectives and management policies. It also establishes investment
principles that stipulate that UPPINDO shall only fund financially and econo-
mically viable projects and should not take token investments or a controlling
interest in any project/client company. It also sets maximum exposure limits
for any one client at 25? of UPPINDO's net worth (which currently means a
maximum exposure per client of Rp 6.4 billion, equivalent to US$3.7 million).
UPPINDO does not normally take on foreign exchange risk in its term lending
operations. UPPINDO's Business Development Department is responsible for the
identification of new projects and screening of applications. This Department
submits a brief report on the merits of each project to the responsible
Managing Director, who then decides whether to proceed to a full appraisal.
If the project is to be appraised, it is assigned to a Project Officer who
would lead the appraisal team and be responsible for supervision if the
project is approved for financing. The appraisal report is reviewed by a
management meeting consisting of the President, Managing Director and respec-
tive Deputy Managing Director. The Deputy Managing Directors are authorized
to approve loans up to Rp 500 million. The Board of Managing Directors can
approve loans up to Rp 1 billion. All loans above Rp 1 billion have to be
sanctioned by the Board of Supervisory Directors. These procedures, as well
as the appraisal standards of UPPINDO, are satisfactory for the participation
of this development finance company in the proposed project.



- 98 -                        Appendix 2
Page 26
61.      Operations, Financial Position and Performance.  A summary of
JPPINDO's balance sheets and income statements for the period 1985-87 and the
first six months of 1988 are shown in Attachments 18 and 19, respectively.
UPPINDO's main activity has been term lending together with complementary
short-term financing, including export-related transactions. In 1987, UPPINDO
approved a total of 5C term loans for an amount of Rp 73.6 billion (compared
to 50 term loans for Rp 44.5 billion in 1986). Term loan commitment in 1987
amounted to Rp 56.8 billion for 46 projects (compared to Rp 42.9 billion for
58 projects in 1988). Total disbursements amounted to Rp 54.1 billion in 1987
(compared to Rp 42.3 billion in 1986). As of December 31, 1987, UPPINDO's
total outstanding loans amounted to Rp 129.4 billion with the long- and
medium-term loan portfolios amounting to Rp 94.5 billion and short-term loans
(including the current portion of term loans) Rp 34.9 billion. A.s of June 30,
1988, total outstanding loans reached Rp 166 billion. UPPINDO's equity
investments are small, with a total of Rp 1.7 billion invested in nine
companies. The bulk of UPPINDO's remaining assets are short-term interest-
bearing promissory notes from other financial institutions. BI is UPPINDO's
most important funding source. In 1987 it provided 47Z of total resources and
86? of total long-term debt. The other long-term debt resources were provided
through FMO and two foreign banks. Equity provided 12Z of total resources.
UPPINDO funded its short-term activities mainly through short-term money
market borrowing. Total income in 1987 represented a return of 14Z on average
total assets. Net profit after tax at Rp 3.2 billion represented a return on
equity of 14.12. UPPINDO's long-term debt:equity ratio was 4.5:1 at the end
of 1987 and reached 6.3:1 as of June 30, 1988. In August 1988, UPPINDO
floated a five-year bond issue of Rp 25 billion, at the interest rate of
17.75Z. As a result, the long-term debt:equity ratio increased to
approximately 7.30:1.   UPPINDO, which has been allocated US$10 million under
EDP II, US$5 million under IRP and US$5 million under the proposed project, is
taking steps to increase its share capital with new equity participation by
the Rabo Bank of the Netherlands and the Asian Development Bank. In addition,
BI has, in February 1989 extended to UPPINDO a subordinated loen amounting to
Rp 38.3 billion, which will be treated as part of equity, and acceptable to
the Bank. UPPINDO's long-term debt:equity ratio has now dropped to 3:l.
62.      Portfolio and Provisions.  Since the early eighties, UPPINDO's
management has concentrated its efforts on tackling portfollo problems that
emerged with the onset of the recession in 1982. A special unit to take
charge of problem projects was set up for the purpose. Portfolio performance
showed considerable improvement in 1987. Problem free loans accounted for
about 78Z of the portfolio. Another 3Z of loans have minor problems. The
other 19Z had arrears of interest or principal of more than one month. The
total amount of principal in arrears over 3 months was Rp 12.9 billion,
representing about 9.62 of the total portfolio. About 15 projects accounted
for the bulk of the loans in difficulty. All were import-substitution-
oriented projec a that were hard hit by the devaluation of the rupiah since
1983. As of December 31, 1987, UPPINDO had provisions for losses on its loan
portfolio amounting to Rp 3.3 billion, representing 2.52 of its total loans
outstanding. The provisions were increased to Rp 4.4 billion as of June 30,
1988, representing 2.7Z of its portfolio.



- 99 -                        Appendix 2
Page 27
Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO)
63.      Backeround and Role of BAPINDO.  BAPINDO was established in 1960 as a
wholly government-owned institution for providing finance to industry, and
soon after, absorbed Bank Industri Negara which was the earlier industrial
lending institution in Indonesia. The Bank Group has been associated with
BAPIIDO for the past twenty years, providing it with five industrial credits
totalling US$359 million, the last of which (Loan 2277-IND for US$209 million)
was approved in 1983. This long relationship started when the Government
agreed in 1970 to transform BAPINDO, with Bank assistance, gradually into an
effective development bank as the main source of term finance for industry.
This institutional development of BAPINDO continued to be a principal
objective of the subsequent Bank loans. BAPINDO has achieved progress in
terms of institutional development since the early 1970s, although this
progress has been erratic over the years, and has clearly established itself
as a major source of medium- and long-term finance for the industrial ard
maritime sectors.
64.      Maior Problems Facing BAPINDO in the 1980s.  Aiter a period of
dramatic growth, with loan approvals doubling annually during 1978-82,
BAPINDO's operations dropped precipitously in 1983 with new approvals
amounting to 24X of the 1982 level, when the economy slid into recession with
currency devaluation and tight monetary policy affecting investmerts as well
as the health of industrial enterprises. These adverse factors also brought
to the fore BAPINDO's own internal weakness. As a result, BAPINDO's portfolio
deteriorated considerably, showing large arrears and very low collection
rates, and it was faced with a severe and worsening financ:al performince and
liquidity position.
65.      To deal with this situation, the Government, BAPINDO and the Bank
subsequently reached agreement on a number of measures to (a) strengthen
BAPINDO's capital structure; (b) review the loan portfolio, aiming at
restructuring and rehabilitation of projects in difficulties and write-offs
for those that were unsalvageable; and (c) reform BAPINDO's organization and
internal management and monitoring procedures to improve staff capability in
project appraisal and supervision. These measures whose implementation began
in 1985 were: (a) in early 1986, the Goverrment took specific measures to
bolster BAPINDO's capital structure by contributing additional equity and
restructuring its borrowings from official sources; (b; the portfolio review
and rehabilitation exercise which was carried out during 1985-87 with
assistance of external consultants covering 71 projects, provided the basis
for BAPINDO's financial restructuring, and increased provisions for losses;
and (c) BAPINDO's reorganization of its management and operating procedures
was implemented during 1986-87. BAPINDO also embarked on a large-scale
training program for its staff. All these measures set BAPINDO on a firm
footing to restore its long-term viability.



- 100 -                       Appendix 2
Paga 28
66.      Organization. Management and Staff.  BAPINDO has a two-man
Supervisory Board representing the Minister of Finance and the Governor of
Bank Indonesia. The Supervisory Board advises on policy matters, provides
guidelines on development priorities and approves BAPINDO's financial
operations and budgets.  A five-man Board of Managing Directors, headed by the
President Director, is responsible for all operational decisions.
67.      There are 14 departments at BAPINDO's Head Office.  BAPINDO hss also
established two Loan Committees (for difficult sectors), whose members are
drawn from department management level, to assist the Board of Managing
Directors in evaluatin3 loan and investment proposals submitted by the
operating departments. These committees have served a useful function by
acting as an effective screening mechanism.
68.      The 1987 reorganization resulted in a 6-7Z reduction of staff.  At
the end of September 1988, BAPINDO's staff totalled 1,138. Most of this
reduction resulted from a streamlining of professional staff at the Head
Office, while the staff at the branches were, on the whole, strengthened.
This reflected a decision to delegate more Authority to the branches.
69.      The quality of BAPINDO staff has improved, largely due to the
intensive training efforts over the past two years, through both in-house and
external training programs, as well as new recruitments.
70.      Operating Policies.  BAPINDO's Policy Statement, which was last
amended in 1983, laid down guidelines on the scope of its activities, the
investment criteria, and the building of an effective organization and staff.
Specifically, the Policy Statement limited BAPINDO's long-term debt to equity
ratio to 6:1; prohibited it from assuming foreign exchange risk; restricted
its exposure to a single enterprise to not more than 201 of its net worth;
limited total equity participation in a single enterprise to 102 of BAPINDO's
net worth and 25Z of the enterprise's total equity; and limited BAPINDO's
total equity particip'ations to not more than its net worth. BAPINDO has
complied with the provisions of the Policy Statement with few exceptions
which, as required, were duly approved by its Supervisory Board.
71.      appraisal and Supervision Procedures.  The quality of BAPINDO's
project appraisal has continued to improve, although analysis could be further
sharpened especially with regard to market and marketing aspects and greater
objectivity and realism could be added to financial evaluation. BAPINDO has
made substantial progress in reducing the loan processing time, from an
average of over 300 days previously to 120 days in the past year. This was
achieved by a delegation of approval authority depending on the proposed loan
sizes, streamlining of appraisal procedures, close monitoring of the
processing schedules and more extensive use of computerization. On the whole,
BAPINDO, despite some room for improvement, has by far the best institutional
capability for project evaluation among all local financial institutions in
Indonesia.



- 101 -                       Appendix 2
Page 29
72.      BAPINDO maintains a project supervision manual and a reasonable
project monitoring system. To further facilitate the coordination between the
Head Office and branches, and to clearly assign and pinpoint responsibility
for the performance of a project, BAPINDO is experimenting with a new
"integrated team management" approach, that would put a team in charge of the
entire loan cycle, from project appraisal to loan collection.
Operations
73.      Due to the economic recession and the depressed credit demand in
1983, BAPINDO's new app.-ivals of loans and equity investments dropped
precipitously from 1,427 approvals for Rp 559 billion (US$845 million) in 1982
to 490 approvals for Rp 138 billion (US$151 million) in 1983. Since then,
BAPINDO's level of approvals recovered at a fairly steady pace to a total
number of 1,385 new approvals of loans and equity investments for Rp 575
billion (US$35C million) in 1987, and increased dramatically with 1,974
approvals for 1}  1,185 billion (US$697 million) in the first nine months of
1988. BAPINDO's total loans and equity investments outstanding rose from Rp
839 billion at the end of 1983, to Rp 1,480 billion at the end of 1987 and Rp
1,914 billion at the end of September 1988.
74.      BAPINDO's total approvals of loans and equity investments during
January-September 1988 reached Rp 1,185 billion (US$697 million) comprising:
Rp 1,122 billion (US$660 million), or 952, for industrial loans (investments
and working capital); Rp 25 billion (US$15 million), or 2?, for maritime; Rp
36 billion (US$21 million), or 3Z, for 'program loans' (made under Bl's
special financing programs such as loans to small contractors); and Rp 2
billion (US$l million) for equity investment and cofinancing with RDBes.
BAPINDO's industrial loans have been diversified in various subsectors, with
relatively higher exposure in wood and wood products, textiles, non-metallic
mineral pro_ucts (mainly cement), due to a number of large projects in these
sectors.
75.      BAPINDO's equity investments are made with the objective of
strengthening the equity base of private pribumi e-terprises and to incrBase
the local Indonesian share in joint-venture companies. As of the end of 1987,
BAPINDO'q equity investments amounted to Rp 56 billion (US$?4 million) for 42
companies, which was equivalent to about 192 of its net wotth. Taking capital
gains into account, the overall return on BAPINDO's equity investment
portfolio in 1987 amounted to about 18X.
76.      Financial Position.  BAPINDO's summarized balance sheets for 1983 to
1988 (as of September 30) are given in Attachment 20. During the period from
the end of 1983 to the end of 1987, BAPINDO's total assets rose from Rp 852
billion to Rp 1,695 billion, representing an average annual growoh rate of
about 182. During the first 9 months of 1988, total assets increased by about
322 to Rp 2,241 billion. BAPINDO's long-term loan and equity investment
portfolio accounted for 95? and 93Z of total assets, as of December 31, 1983
and 1984, but declined to 77? and 722 as of December 31, 1985 and 1986. With
the increases in operations in 1987-88, the percentage of the long-term loan
and equity investment portfolio over total assets rose to 82Z as of December
31, 1987 and 852 as of September 30, 1988. BAPINDO's capital structure was
strengthened through shareholders' additional contributions and conversions of



- 102 -                        Appendix 2
Page 30
some local loans during 1984-86. As a result, BAPINDO's long-term debt-equity
ratio declined from 5.7sl au. of December 31, 1983, to 3.2:1 as of December 31,
1987, which is well below tne ceiling qf 6:1 stipulated in Loan Agreement No.
2277-IND.
77.      Financial Performance.  BAPINDO's summarized income statements for
1983 to 198R (as of September 30) are shown in Attachment 21. BAPINDO's
profitability, in terms of return on average equity, declined from 5.6? in
1983 to 4.5? in 1984 and 0.82 in 1985. This deterioration was accounted for
mainly by the poor performance of the loan portfolio which required
substantial annual provisions for losses. The return on average equity
subsequently increased to 3.42 in 1986 and 12.3Z in 1987. BAPINDO's profit
after tax increased sixfold, from Rp 5.9 billion in 1983 to Rp 35.0 billion in
1987. The gross spread in 1987 was 4.36? of average total assets. BAPINDO's
administrative expenses have been kept at satisfactory levels, ranging from
1.8? to 2.32 of average total assets since 1984. BAPINDO's ability to meet
debt service obligations has also improved, with debt service cover and
interest cover ratios of 1.54 and 2.16, respectively, in 1987.
78.      Quality of Portfolio.  The quality of BAPINDO's overall portfolio,
deteriorated markedly from 1983 to 1986, but began an improving trend in 1987
due to the portfolio rehabilitation efforts and write-offs in the mid 1980s.
Loan amounts affected by arrears (over three months) increased from Rp 108.2
billion, or 14.31 of total loans outstanding, as of December 31, 1983, to Rp
516.9 billion, or 49.72, as of December 31, 1985, and Rp 502.6 billion, or
57.2?, as of December 31, 1986. The arrears (over three months) in absolute
terms rose from Rp 26.5 billion, or 3.5? of loans outstanding as of December
31, 1983, to Rp 130.8 billion, or 12.5? of loans outstanding, as of December
31, 1985, end Rp 149.1 billion, or 14.5? of loans out3tanding, as of December
31, 1986. This poor performance was in spite of a total loan amount of Rp 110
billion rescheduled and Rp 67.9 billion written off during 1983-85. The large
amounts of loans rescheduled totalling Rp 199.6 billion in 1986-87, or 16? of
average loans outstanding, and of loans written-off totalling Rp 76.9 billion,
or over 62 of average loans outstanding, during this two-year period helped
reduce the amount of loans affected by arrears to Rp 323.6 billion, or 23.22
of total loans outstanding, as of December 31, 1987. The arrears (over three
months) at that time amounted to Rp 101.6 billion, or 82 of total loans
outstanding. As of September 30, 1988, the arrears (over three months)
amounted to Rp 140.0 billion, representing 7.7? of the total loans
outstanding. Overall collection ratios, which deteriorated from 68.8? in 1983
to 41.02 in 1985, improved to 52? in 1986 and 67.8? in 1987. BAPINDO expected
to achieve the 70? collection ratio target the end of 1988 and the 802 target
for 1989. Provision for losses as of December 31, 1987, which amounted to Rp
62.7 billion, or 4.6? of total loans outstanding, were adequate.
79.      Future Long-term Development Strategy.  BAPINDO has recently begun to
deal with the various current major issues confronting most of the development
firnance institutions around the world, such as the needs to increase market
orientation in providing the services and product mix required by the clients;
to diversify the sources of funding; and to enhance the efficiency and
flexibility of the organization and staff to better handle the evolving nature
of the operations and to compete effectively in a more open environment. The
October 1987 financial reforms and the impending new banking legislation will



- 103 -                      6pAendix 2
Page 31
directly affect BAPINDO's future business orospects and resources. It will
face much greater competition from other financial institutions in the market
place and will have to rely increasingly on self-mobilized resources. BAPINDO
thus intends to develop a strategy for its future development in terms of its
clientele, product mix and sources of funding and to implement this strategy
with the assistance of consulting experts with requisite experience and
expertise. In this regard, it is in the process of recruiting a new Senior
Banking/Financial Advisor to help initiate and coordinate this effort. The
long-term development strategy and implementation plans, which will be
prepared with assistance of consulting experts under the supervision of the
Senior Banking/Financial Advisor for consideration and approval by BAPINDO's
Board of Managing Directors, would be completed by March 31, 1990.
80.      Proposed Participation of BAPINDO.  As discussed above, BAPINDO has
made substantial progress since the mid-1980s towards restoring its viability
as a development finance institution mainly through a major reorganizacion
both at the Head Office and branches, streamlining of internal operating
procedures, and strengthening of its manage.ient and staff capability; a
recapitalization and restructuring of BAPINDO's finances; and a rehabilitation
of its loan portfolio. These concerted actions have resulted in a turn-around
of BAPINDO's financial performance. Nevertheless, BAPINDO should keep up the
momentum of reform and progress to further improve its performance, especially
with regard to loan collection and reduction of arrears.
8'.      It is proposed that BAPINDO would be included as a participating bank
in the proposed project provided that BAPINDO maintains the present improving
trends in its portfolio and financial performance.



- 1f4 -                             .Annendix 2
Attachment 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
The Four Participating State-Owned Commercial Banks /a
Audited Balance Sheets, December 31, 1985-87 and June 30, 1988
(Rp billion)
Dec 31,    Dec 31,    Dec 31,       Jun 30,
1985       1986        1987         1988
(unaudited)
Assets
Current Assets
Cash on hand                                    388.9       482.3       602.3      447.2
Due from Bank Indonesia                         659.3       915.6    1,324.6    1,166.0
Due frori other banks                           380.8       898.5      544.5       235.0
Notes/securities/short-term placements        6,561.9    7,562.2    6,961.3    8,833.5
Short-term loans                              8,307.2   10,435.6   13,110.7          /b
Less:  reterve for bad debts                   (255.5)    (318.5)      431.7         Ic
Net Short-Term Loans                        8,051.7     10,117.1   12,679.0        0.0/b
Other current assets                            997.8    1,379.0    1,263.0    1,044.i
Subtotal current assets                     17,040.4   21,354.7   23,374.7   11,725.8
Long-Term Assets
Long-term loans                               7,781.8   10,015.4   11,841.1   28,113.6/b
Less:  reserve for bad debts                   (327.9)    (434.7)    (511.1)  (1,183.9 )/c
Net Long-Term Loans                         7,453.9    9,580.7   11,330.0   26,929.7/b
Equity participation                             20.4        21.4        39.0       29.5
Other investments                               117.6       859.8      677.4       226.3
Subtotal long-term portfolio                7,591.9   10,461.9   12,046.4   27,185.5/b
Net fixed assets                                182.4       233.7      262.0       292.0
Other                                            65.7        38.2       34.7         0.0
Subtotal long-term assets                  7,840.0   10,733.8   12,343.1   27,477.5
Total Assets                              24,880.4   32,088.5   35,717.8   39,203.3



- 105 -                           Appendlx 2
Attachment I
Page 2
Dec 31,    Dec 31,    Dec 31,       Jun 30,
1985       1986        1987         1988
(unaudited)
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Demand deposits                               4,005.7    4,A56.9    4,618.8    4,329.6
Time deposits                                 8,195.6   119.36.7   13,599.7   13,342.6
Savings deposits                                767.8       987.1    1,201.3    1,173.5
Accounts payable                                575.5       768.9       975.2      908.9
Liquidity credits from BI                     2,896.9    3,199.3    3,844.0    3,839.4/d
Due to other banks                              132.9       225.8      179.9        41.1
Other current liabilities                     1,102.5    1,466.8    1,265.3        746.4
Subtotal current liabilities              17,676.9   23.041.5   25,684.2   24,381.5
Long-Term Liabilities
BI liquidity credits                          4,481.7    5,592.6    6,425.9    7,116.3/d
Loans from BI                                   182.9      296.6       137.6         0.0
Government loans                                314.8       790.6    1,413.0    1,444.6
Time deposits                                   699.6      888.2       816.7    4,632.2
Other                                           995.8       712.0      309.6       588.2
Subtotal long-term liabilities             6,674.8    8,280.0    9,102.8   13,781.3
Equity
Paid-up capital                                 103.0       161.4      166.8       173.1
Reser_s                                         299.8      339.1       398.5       394.5
Retained earnings                               125.9       266.5      365.4       472.9
Subtotal equity                               528.7      767.0       930.7    1,040.5
Total Liabilities and Equity              24,880.4   32,088.5   35,717.7   39,203.3
/a BDN, BNI 1946, BRI and BBD.
7-b long-term loans include short-term loans; detailed breakdown not available at mid-
year.
/c  Reserve for bad debts for long-term loans includes reserve for bad debts for short-
term loans.
/d BI liquidity credits include short- and long-term credits; detailed breakdown not
available at mid-year.
AS5IE
August 1988



- 106 -                         Apnendix 2
Attachment 2
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
The Four Participating State-Owned Commercial Banks /a
Audited Income Statements, 1985-87 and January-June 1988
(Rp billion)
Jan-Jun
1985     1986      1987       1988
(unaudited)
Income
Interest
On loans                               1,438.8  1,712.7  2,324.0    1,378.3
On notes/securities/placements           585.5    692.6    680.5          30.2
Other                                      4.7      46.1    168.2          1.0
Subtotal interest                     2.029.0  2,451.4  3,172.7    1,409.5
Commissions and fees                       197.8    218.7    241.6         102.0
Foreigo exchange transactions              112.4    637.9    138.0        112.0
Other operating income                      67.0      66.7    196.4       106.2
Subtotal operating income             2,406.2  3,374.7  3,748.7    1,729.7
Nonoperating income                         17.1      22.5      49.0       21.8
Total Income                          2,423.3  3,397.2  3,797.7    1,751.5
Expenses
Interest charges on borrowings           1,562.3  1,851.8  2,378.4    1,049.2
Salaries and other personnel expenses   321.3    441.3    383.6           211.7
Other operating and misc. expenses         179.9    193.9    239.4        122.8
Depreciation                                23.0      35.1     51.9         5.0
Provision for bad debts                    175.0    550.5    357.9        183.9
Nonoperating expenses                       15.5      24.5      35.3        10.6
Total Expenses                        2,277.0  3,097.1  3,446.5    1,583.2
Net Income Before Taxes                 146.3    300.1    351.2        168.3
Less:  Provision for taxes                    59.9    112.3    129.9          58.9/b
Net Income                              86.4    187.8    221.3        109.4
/a BDN, BNI 1946, BRI and BBD.
7- Provision of taxes assumed at 35% of net income before tax.
AS5IE
August 1988



Apvendix 2
Attachment 3
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
The Four Participating State-Owned Commercial Banks /a
Loan Portfolio Quality - Collectibility, 1985-87
(Rp billion)
Classification of portfolio
Regular       Often late   Special attention   Liquidation            Total
1985
BNI 1946    3,730  (97.1)    30  (0.8)            64   (1.7)        16  (0.4)      3,840  (100)
BDN          3,051  (91.6)   168  (5.1)          101   (3.0)        10  (0.3)      3,330  (100)
BRI          3,974  (92.0)   114  (2.7)          196   (4.5)        34  (0.8)      4,318  (100)
BBD           n.a.           n.a.               n.a.             n.a.               n.a.
Total   10,755  (93.6)   312  (2.7)           361   (3.2)       60  (0.5)    11,488  (100)
1986
BNI 1946    4,759  (97.6)    38  (0.8)            68   (1.4)         8  (0.2)      4,873  (100)
BDN          3,467  (90.0)   228  (5.9)          134   (3.5)        21  (0.6)      3,850  (100)
BRI          4,502  (94.4)    93  (2.0)          168   (3.5)         4  (0.1)      4,767  (100)
BBD          4,240  (84.9)   140  (2.8)          472   (9.5)       140  (2.8)      4,992  (100)
Total   16,968  (91.8)   499  (2.7)           842   (4.6)      173  (0.9)    18,482  (100)
1987
BNI 1946    5,857  (97.7)    37  (0.6)            78   (1.3)        26  (0.4)      5,998  (100)
BDN          4,593  (93.2)   223  (4.5)          107   (2.2)         7  (0.1)      4,930  (100)
BRI          5,412  (94.0)   124  (2.2)          189   (3.3)        27  (0.5)      5,752  (100)
BBD          5,309  (89.8)    40  (0.7)          399   (6.8)       162  (2.7)      5,910  (100)
Total   21,171  (93.7)   424  (1.9)           773   (3.4)      222  (1.0)    22,590  (100)
/a  BDN, BNI 1946, BRI and BBD.
Notes:  (1)  Figures in parentheses are percentages of the total loan portfolio
(2)  n.a. - not available.
AS5IE
August 1988



- 108 -
Appendix 2
Attachment 4
INDOUNESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Regional Development Bank, Central Java
Audited Balance Sheets, March 31, 1984-88 and September 30, 1988
(Rp million)
Mar          Mar          Mar          Mar          Mar           Sep
1984        1985          1986         1987         1988          1988
(unaudited)
Assets
Cash on hanld                           9,968.4    22,642.0    24,360.3    29,077.0    29,205.0          28,964.4
Due from Hank Indonesia                 7,482.3      4,264.9      8,423.7      5,271.0      6,131.7      12,747.1
Due ,rom other banks                      7b2.8      3,064.1      3,621.3      2,031.2      3,832.3       7,123.9
Bonds an,: securities                        -       5,000.0    13,500.0       7,000.0      6,500.0      12,000.0
Loan portfolio In Rupiah               57,5b3.5    75,540.3    91,019.8   126,874.4   162,019.0    189,874.7
Equity investment                          37.2         37.2         37.2         37.2        162.2          162.2
Fixed assets                            4,079.9      4,421.2      5,458.0      6,08U.8      6,942.7       8,267.2
Others                                    802.2      2,308.5      2,930.2      2,137.0      2,845.2       2,139.8
Total Assets                        80,696.3   117,278.2   149,350.5   178,508.5   217,638.1    261,279.3
Liabtlities and Equity
Liabiltties
Demand deposits                      35,807.2    59,818.4    76,088.3    82,474.9    85,992.1    112,753.1
Current liabilities                   1,687.1      2,017.4      3,376.9      3,212.3      5,662.1       1,289.9
Savings deposits                      4,488.0      5,466.7      7,958.2      9,634.4    10,246.4       10,183.7
Time depotits                         3,599.2      4,949.3      6,495.6    12,349.4    18,651.2        23,415.2
Borrowings from 81                   20,821.5    26,918.4    32,484.8    44,782.4    65,927.9          75,790.6
Other liabilities                       6U5.0        722.4      1,396.0      1,259.5      1,881.6       3,141.3
Total Liabilities                   67,008.0    99,892.6   127,799.8   153,712.9   188,361.3    226,573.8
Equity
Paid-in capital                       7,238.0      9,238.0    11,420.0    13,602.0    14,802.0         16,984.0
Advanced payment against capital   1,421.7         1,463.3      1,695.2        836.2      1,622.0         787.2
Reserves                              2,323.4      3,135.0      4,199.8      5,470.5      6,936.6      11,965.4
Profit in current year                2,705.2      3,549.3      4,235.7      4,887.0      5,916.2       4,968.9
Total Equity                        13,688.3    17,385.6    21,550.7    24,795.7    29,27b.8          34,705.5
Total Liabilities and Equity        80,696.3   117,278.2   149,350.5   178,508.6   217,638.1    261,279.3
Ratio
Total debt/equity ratio                     4.9U         5.75         5.93         6.20         6.43           8.67
AS5iE
October 1988



- 109 -                     ~~~~~~ApM"dix 2
- 109 -                          Attachment 5
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Regional Development Bank, Central Java
Audited Income Statements, March 31, 1984-88 and September 30, 1988
(Rp million)
Mar     Mar      Mar     Mar      Mar        Sep
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988         1988
(unaudited)
Income
Interest income                              7,680  10,367  13,195  16,730  22,516    10,966
Commissions and fees                         1,270   2,328   2,495   2,354   2,004          969
Other operational income                       887      156     403      888   1,092        467
Nonoperational income                          270   1,476   1,402   1,852   4,051        1,339
Total Income                             10,107  14,327  17,495  21,824  29,663    13,741
Expenses
Interest expense                             2,225   3,029   3,735   4,970   7,829        3,264
Salaries and other personnel expenses        1,133   1,599   2,125   3,189   3,708        1,978
Depreciation                                   418     410      598      553     685        630
Bad debt write-off                             546     910      905   1,141   1,498           -
Other operational expenses                   1,615   2,263   2,673   3,265   3,717        1,601
Nonoperational expenses                         17      665     952   1,197   3,133       1,299
Total Expenses                            5.954   8,876  10,988  14,315  20,570        8,772
Net Income Before Taxes                   4,153   5,451  6,507   7,509   9,093         4,969
Income tax                                     1,448   1,902   2,271   2,622   3,177
Net Income After Tax                      2,705   3,549   4,236   4,887   5,916
Ratios
Net profit/average equity (%)                 19.8    22.8    21.8    21.1    21.9
Net profit/average total assets (X)            3.4      3.6     3.2      3.0     3.0
Adm. exp./average total assets (X)             3.9      4.3     4.1      4.3     4.1
Adm. exp./average loan portfolio               5.5     6.4      6.5      6.4     5.6
AS5IE
October 1988



- 110 -
Appendix 2
Attachment 6
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Regional Development Bank, East Java
Audited Balance Sheets, March 31, 1984-88 and September 30, 1988
(Rp million)
Mar        Mar          Mar          Mar          Mar            Sep
1984       1985         1986         1987         1988           1988
(unaudited)
Assets
Cash on hand                             8,455.1   18,208.9    15,905.9    15,308.7    13,810.5          12,171.1
Due from Bank Indonesia                  7,232.6   16,801.0    36,696.0    13,439.8    15,630.4          11,755.2
Due from other banks                       841.2    3,126.4       8,252.8      5,453.3    13,158.7        9,970.6
Drafts and receivables                   6,245.5    9,181.0    10,663.7    29,912.2    12,780.4          30,706.7
Time deposits                                 -           -            -       4,500.0         49.4      15,350.0
Loan portfolio                          21,571.7   23,623.4    27,662.9    45,723.6    89,510.0    109,077.0
Long-term                             13,325.4
Short-term                             8,246.3
Equity investment                           25.0        25.0         25.0         25.0         25.0          25.0
Fixed assets                             2,444.1    2,458.4       2,528.7      5,557.5      4,080.4      17,833.5
Other assets                             1,547.2    5,726.3       8,534.7    11,955.6    13,488.4        12,038.4
Total Assets                        48,362.4   79,150.4   110,269.7   131,875.7   162,533.2    218,927.5
Liabilities and Equity
Liabilities
Demand deposits                       19,194.3   47,337.1    65,995.4    79,060.6    90,635.0    114,206.9
Current liabilities                    3,957.6    1,785.0      2,375.1       1,537.2     4,382.4        1,921.7
Savings deposits                       1,010.9    1,464.0       2,377.0      3,374.4     4,577.1       4,296.2
Time deposits                          7,226.8    7,211.3    11,612.2    14,180.3    15,812.8          17,6,0.9
Borrowings
Medium-/long-term                    8,499.4    8,109.9       7,710.1    10,583.1    19,889.7       39,363.1
Short-term                            400.0           -            -            -            -             -
Guarar:_^ deposits                       976.4    1,218.4       2,127.4      1,066.6           -        2,772.4
Other liabx'ities                        700.5    3,219.0      6,935.9       5,878.5     3,821.6        3,802.2
Total Liabilfties                   41,965.9   70,344.7    99,133.1   115,680.7   139,118.6    184,013.4
Equity
Paid-in capital                       4,087.0    4,747.0       6,515.2      9,305.6    16,131.0        19,235.0
General reserve                          683.0       693.3      1,055.6      2,511.3     3,884.6        3,392.9
Other reserves                           612.2       677.9        512.9        550.3           -          898.6
Profit in previous year                     -           -            -            -            -        5,063.3
Profit in current year                 1,014.3    2,687.5      3,052.9      3,827.8      3,399.0       6,324.3
Total Equity                          6,396.5    8,805.7    11,136.6    16,195.0    23,414.6         34,314.1
Total Liabilities and Equity        48,362.4   79,150.4   110,269.7   131,875.7   162,533.2    218,927.5
Ratio
Total debt/equity                            6.6         8.0          8.9          7.1          5.7           5.3
AS5IE
October 1988



- 111 -
Agpendix 2
Attachment 7
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Regional Devesapment Bank, East Java
Audited Income Statements, Harch 31, 1984-88 and September 30, 1988
(Rp million)
Mar      Mar       Mar        Har       Mar         Sep
1984     1985      1986       1987      1988        1988
(unaudited)
Income
Interest income                    5,376.2  8,098.6  10,703.9  14,253.3  17,930.4   11,663.0
Commissions                          313.3    361.0       474.1     575.9   1,177.7        661.1
Other operational income             193.3    389.6   1,533.0   1,366.8   1,120.4    1,652.2
Ncnoperational income                125.3    120.6       185.3      122.9      76.2       810.3
Total Income                    6,008.1  8.969.S  12,896.3  16,318.9  20,304.7   14,786.6
Expenses
Interest expense                   1,793.3  2,459.7   3,929.6   5,435.9   5,621.5    3,280.6
Salaries and other personnel
expenses                         1,267.1  1,544.0   1,985.2   3,161.3   4,149.2    2,045.8
Depreciation                         256.5    955.0   2,137.7   1,610.2   2,019.0          246.1
Other operational expenses         1,630.6  1,227.3   1,637.0   2,202.3   3,105.3    1,758.7
Nonoperational expenses               46.3      96.3      153.9      81.4       99.4    1,131.1
Total Expenses                  4,993.8  6,282.3   9,843.4  12,491.1  14,994.4    8,462.3
Net Income Before Tax           1,014.3  2,687.5   3,052.9   3,827.8   5,310.3    6,324.3
Income tax                             389.8    957.2   1,090.0   1,306.9   1,911.5
Net Income After Tax              624.5  1,730.3   1,962.9   2,520.9   3,398.8
Ratios
Net profit/avg. equity (X)             9.8      22.8       19.7       18.4      17.2
Net profit/avg. total assets (2)        1.3      2.7        2.1        2.1       2.3
Adm. exp./avg. total assets (Z)        6.5       5.8        6.1        5.8       0.6
Adm. exp./avg. loan portfolio (X)   14.6        16.5       22.5       19.0      13.7
AS5IE
October 1988



Appendix 2
- 112  -                           ~~~~~~Attachment 8
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Regional Development Bank, North Sumatera
Audited Balance Sheets, December 31, 1983-87 and June 30, 1988
(Rp million)
Dec         Dec         Dec          Dec           Dec           Jun
1983        1984        1985         1986          1987          1988
(unaudited)
Assets
Cash on hand                                 2,363.9    2,883.7    3,080.6    3,192.7           3,693.5        8,409.5
Due from banks                               5,074.0    2,553.0    6,136.6    2,134.4           5,348.4        5,4U6.7
Drafts and receivables                       2,30U.0   10,175.0   15,625.0    6,400.0           8,980.0       14,015.0
Loan portfolio                              41,283.4   51,743.6   69,899.9   83,803.5   101,967.0            106,160.4
Less:  Provision for bad debt                 (769.3)    (469.0)  (1,000.3)  (1,958.5)           (471.1)    (1,560.7)
Net loan portfolio                      40,514.1   51,274.6   68,899.6   81,845.0   101,495.9            104,599.7
Loans to employees                             326.2        285.6       322.6        502.5        547.9          544.8
Advanced payment on loans                       89.9    1,100.6          45.8        122.2        128.5          248.6
Deferred charges                                24.4         24.8       104.7        124.8        263.1          224.0
Other current assets                           157.1         82.0          7.6        15.5          32.1          31.2
Equity investment                                  -           -        210.0        210.0        210.0          210.0
Fixed assets                                 3,664.9    4,692.1    5,947.9    5,886.8           6,315.0        6,510.2
Less:  Depreciation                         (1,112.5)  (1,491.9)  (1,943.4)  (2,201.8)   (2,559.4)   .(2,532.2)
Net fixed assets                          2,552.4    3,200.2    4,004.5    3,685.0           3,755.6        3,978.0
Building under construction                        -           -         42.9    1,380.5        3,279.1        4,613.7
Total Assets                             53,402.0   71,579.5   98,479.9   99,612.6   127,734.1           142,281.2
Liabilities and Euity
=abiities17
Dem;an -deposits                          17454.3   24,990.4   35,554.2   19,922.3    27,726.9             40,615.8
Current liabilities                          246.1       389.2        709.4    1,043.2          489.0          423.4
Guarantee deposits                           607.4        7920i       601.5         93.4        308.3          115.9
Savings deposits                           4,720.4    5,969.3    8,319.6   10,887.1    11,731.8            10,783.0
Time deposits                              7,273.3    9,578.0   14,998.0   20,718.8    21,874.9            21,881.8
Borro'.ings from Bank Indonesia           12,362.1   16,809.7   22,850.2   29,715.9    48,180.4            48,774.8
Cofinancing account - BAPINDO                285.9        247.5       128.6         55.8           - 
Cofinancing account - UPPINDO              2,149.9    3,324.7    4,169.5    4,037.2           3,962.1        3,885.1
Other current liabilities                    580.9       350.8        124.9       288.0         627.9        1,506.8
Total Liabilities                        45,680.3   62,452.4   87,455.9   86,762.7   114,901.3           127,986.6
Equity
Paid-in capital                            6,170.6    7,185.8    9,004.5    9,862.8    10,027.9             10,095.7
Retained earnings                          1,551.1    1,941.3    2,019.5    2,987.2           2,804.9        4,198.9
Total Euity                               7,721.7    9,127.1   11,024.0   12,850.0    12,832.8            14,294.6
Total Liabilities and Equity             53,402.0   71,579.5   98,479.9   99,612.7   127,734.1    142,281.2
Rat)
ToYal debt/equity                                 5.9         6.8          7.8         6.8           9.0           9.0
AS51E
October 1988



- 113 -
Appendix 2
Attachment 9
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Regional Development Bank, North Sumatera
Audited Income Statemer. , December 31, 1983-87 and June 30, 1988
(Rp million)
Dec      Dec       Dec        Dec       Dec         Jun
1983     1984      1985       1986      1987        1988
(unaudited)
Income
Interest income                    6,409.3  7,795.6   9,813.9  12,054.4  13,900.5    7,800.9
Commissions                          559.9    670.1       977.8   1,056.1   1,255.2        587.9
Management fees                      249.4    255.2       491.4     651.3   1,014.2        487.3
Other operational income             145.3    202.7       428.7     671.8      986.4       908.0
Nonoperational income                 45.8      11.6        6.6   1,561.5       22.2         6.9
Total Income                    7,409.7  8,935.2  11,718.4  15,995.1  17,178.5    9,791.0
Expenses
Interest expense                   2,343.6  2,819.0   4,149.4   5,743.5   7,064.5    3,580.9
Salaries and other personnel
expenses                         1,670.4  2,087.2   2,225.7   2,743.6   3,132.7    1,560.7
Insurance premiums                   165.0    266.0      366.9      623.8      688.8       450.8
Rental payment                        13.3      16.5       17.6      23.3       68.1        73.8
Taxes (other than income tax)        128.9    124.7       163.3      196.3      68.0       204.7
Maintenance and innovation           290.3    351.1       254.5     329.8      489.7       331.3
Provision for bad debt               716.8    565.2   1,868.4   3,390.2   2,043.6    1,693.3
Depreciation                         205.3    379.9       498.7     410.0      436.7        19.8
Other operational expenses           659.4    891.6       881.7   1,033.5   1,552.2        473.1
Nonoperational expenses               25.4       1.0        2.8      21.6       31.3          -
Total Expenses                  6,218.4  7,502.2  10,429.0  14,515.6  15,575.6    8,388.4
Net Ineome Before Tax           1,191.3  1,433.0   1,289.4   1,479.5   1,602.9    1,402.6
Income tax                             473.6    495.5       508.1     511.8      555.0       484.9
Net Income After Tax              717.7    937.5      781.3      967.7   1,047.9        917.7
Ratios
Net profit/avg. equity (Z)             9.3      11.1        7.8       8.1        8.2        13.5
Net profit/avg. total assets (X)       1.3       1.5        0.9        1.0       0.9         1.4
Adm. exp./avg. total assets (x)        5.9       6.6        5.2       5.4        5.7         4.6
Adm. exp./avg. loan portfolio (%)    7.6         8.9        7.3       7.0        6.9         6.0
MUfiter 1988



-  114  -                                     Appendix 2
Attachment 10
iNDONESIA
SHALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Dutat Audited Balance Sheet., December 31, 1984-87 and June 30, 1988
(Np million)
Dec 31,     Dec 31,      Pec 31,     Dec 31,  Jun 30,
1984        1985         1986        1987      1988
(unaudited)
Assets
Curnt XAsets
Cash on hand                                     2,286       3,533        4,518       7,381   7,529
Due from Bank Indonesia                         15,046      28,156       33,327      36,645   40,212
Due from other banks                            79,072      22,610       60,590      54,370   41,012
Notes/securities/short-term placements          38,908      34,376       47,260      65,221   52,637
Accounts receivable - VISA card                  8,266       5,792        8,122       9,335   10.304
Short-term loans                               223,504     284,211      299,393     418,637   501,748
Less:  Reserve for bad debts                         -        (110)        (323)       (600)  (600)
Net short-term lopns                          233,504     284,101      299.070     418,037   501,148
Other current assets                             7,685       2,334        2,031      14,200   16,525
Subtotal current assets                      384,767      380,902      454,918     605,189   669,367
bog-em assets
"-lZgta   loans                                        -      u4,500       70,200      93,300   128,145
Less:  Reserve for bad debts                         -           -            -           -   -
Net long-term loans                                 -      64,500       70,200      93,300   128,145
Equity participation                             1,307       1,307        2,036       2,036   2,066
Other Investments                                  501         501          501         501   -
Subtotal long-term portfolio                    1,808      66,308       72,737      95,837   130,211
Fixed assets                                     4,273       8,170        9,584      11,371   12,163
Less:  Accumulated depreciation                      -      (2,892)      (3,919)     (5,498)  (5,498)
Net fixed assets                               4,273        5.278        5,665       5,873   6,665
Other                                              528         415          936         932   15,996
Subtotal long-term assets                       6,609      72,001       79,338     102,642   152,872
Total Assets                                  391,376     452,903      534,256     707,831   822,239
aiblte    ad Eu!ty
CuMrren teEab ilIf,
Demand deposits                                 78,082     113,001      127,938     169,062   169,652
Time deposits                                  182,285     208,967      238,541     338,810   438,826
Savings deposits                                 1,908       3,132        4,521       5,488   6,098
Due to other banks                             57,372       41,323      36,739       83,228   67,733
Notes payable                                    1,000       3,483      36,047       11,650   35,542
Accounts payable                                     -      13,069       19,241      10,248   3,314
Other current liabilities                        8,722       7,282       10,421      17,700   19,653
Subtotal current liabilities                  329,369     390,237     473,448      636,186   740,818
Long-Ter. Liabilities
BI loan                                         35,000      41,216       39,377      39,284   38.208
Subtotal long-term liabilities                35,000       41,216      39,377       39,284   38,208
Equity
Ta--up capital                                  10,000      10,000       10,000      13,500   13,500
Reserves                                         2,705       3,805        4,805       6,805   8,555
Retained earnings                               14,302       7,645        6,626      12,056   21,158
Subtotal equity                               27,007       21,450      21,431       32,361   43,213
Total Liabilities and Equity                 391,376      452,903     534,256      707,831   822,239
Ratios
Current ratio                                       1-17        0.98         0.96        0.95   0.90
Long-term debt/equity ratio                         1.30        1.92         1.84        1.21   0.88
Total debt/equity ratio                            13.50       20.11        23.93       20.87   18.03
Loan portfolio/total sets (S)                         60          77           69          72   77
Loan portfolio/deposits (Z)                           85         107         99.6        99.7   102
A51E
October 1988



- 115 -
Appendix 2
Attachment 11
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL PROJECT
Bank Duta:  Audtted Income Statements, 1984-87 and January-June 1988
(Rp million)
Jan-Jun
1984    1985    1986      1987       1988
(unaudited)
Income
Interest
On loans                                    28,804  44,677  52,386   74,071       51,835
On notes/securities/placements               9,52c   8,416   7,471    9,047        3,890
Other                                        2,013   2,380   3,032    3,704        6,12U
Subtotal interest income                   40,342  55,473  62,889   86,822       61,845
Commissions and fees                           3,627   3,975   4,698    5,696        2,486
Income from foreign exchange transactions    5,457   4,578   5,009    1,679          1,195
Other operating income                         1,075   1,012   2,730    4,289          516
Nonoperating income                                -       25     104         -      2,54k
Total Income                               50,501  65,063  75,430   98,486       68,586
Expenses
interest charges                              25,027  39,735  45,321   58,161       43,961
Provisions for bad debts                       2,405   1,851   5,691    6,325        2,702
Salaries and other personnel expenses       } 11S.00   7,857   8,101    9,981        5,609
Other operating and misc. expenses          }           5,439   7,265   13,404       7,458
Nonoperating expenses                          1,117      119      82         -        129
Total Expenses                             39,949  55,001  66,461   87,871       59,859
Net Income Before Tax                      10,552  10,062   8,969   10,615        8,727
Less:  Provision for tax                         3,687   3,676   3,273    3,896        3,037
Net Income                                  6,865   6,386   5,696    6,719        5,690
Ratios
Net profit/average equity (x)                  25.43   29.77   26.57    24.98        30.12
Net profit/average total assets (%)             1.75    1.51    1.15       1.08       1.48
Admin. exp./average total assets (%)            3.50    3.18    3.13      3.77        3.42
Admin. exp./average loan portfolio (%)          5.90    4.69    4.30      5.29        4.58
AS5IE
October 1988



-  116                                               Appendix 2
Attachment 12
INDONESIA
SfLL AND MEDIUI INDUSTRIAL ZNITERPUSE PROJECT
Bank Niaga:  Audited Balance Sheets, Dece ber 31, 1984-87 and June 30, 1988
Dec 31.     Dec 31,      Dec 31.      Dec 31,   Jun 30.
1984        1985         1986         1987      1988
(unaudited)
Ase'..ts
urErnt Assets
Uash on hand                                      2,936        3,884        5,060        6,460   6 902
Due from Bank Indonesie                          22.788       23,737       25,653      35636   3i,469
Due from other banks                             14,762       33,461       34,588      47,445   1,312
Marketable securities                             4.000        7,033        7.000       4.000   4,000
Promissory notes and bills                        1,592       22,117       45.761      55,120   62,712
Short-term loans                                161,360      204,349     273,485      405,972   423,961
Less:  Reserve for bad debts                       (936)      (1,001)           -            -   -
Net short-term loans                           160,424      203,348     273,485      405,972   423,961
Interest and commissions receivable               3,691        3,910       5,185        8,467   9 732
Prepaysents                                         854          555        3,222       3.101   7,933
Other receivables                                   680          405          676        1,112   1,100
Aasets in foreign currencies                          -            -            -            -   227,729
Subtotal current assets                        211,727     298,450      400,630      567,313   777,850
Lonn-Term Assets
Longitern Toans                                 59,658       74,241      101,513     204,791   261,817
Less:  Reserve for bad debts                     (1,533)      (1,555)       2,943)     (3,516)  (5,623)/a
Net long-term loans                             58,125       72,686      98,570      201.275   256,194
Equity investment                                   486          622        1,938       2,074   652
Fixed assets                                      4,599        5,348        6.517      10,011   11,342
Less:  Accumulated depreciation                  (1,525)      (2,028)     (2.707)      (3,831)  (4,027)
Net fixed assets                                 3,074        3,320       3,810        6.180   7,315
Buildings under construction                      3,138          932        1,666       1,116   1,513
Subtotal long-term assets                       64,823       78,560     105,984      210,645   265,674
Other Aasets
UeposIts. advances and deferred charges           1,966          838        1.750       3,304   1,216
Goodwill                                             18           12            6            -   -
Subtotal other assets                            1,984          850       1.756        3,304   1,216
Total Assets                                   278,534     376,860      508,370      781,262   1,044,740
L'abilititeand d uity
Crrent Lat      es
Uesand deposSts                                  56,836       72,647      98,297      123,892   129,401
Time deposits                                   151,864      193,644     267,985      4b3,733   514,970
Savings deposits                                  7,299       12.171      18,257       21,230   24,651
Collateral deposits                               2,804        5 389       8,882        9,921   1,677
Promissory notes payable to banks                   751       35,015      28,956       24,609   20,192
Short-term liquidity credits from bl             11,642        3,567       8,980       13,300   13,907
Current maturities of long-term loans             1,463        1,875       17,197      20,899   21,845
Unearned interest                                 8,683       13.083      19,600       33,311   28,569
Other current liabilities                         7,111        7.551       12,033      19,586   27,914
Liabilities in foreign currencies                     -            -            -           -   223,457
Subtotal current liabilities                   248,453     344,942      480,187      750,481   1,006,583
_ng-Term Liabllities
Long-term  TquldE  credits from 8I               16,215       16,555        7,007       5,405   6,206
Long-term consortium  loans                           -            -            -           -   -
Subtotal long-term  liabilities                 16,215       16,555       7,007        5,405   6,206
Equity
raidT-up capital                                  9,896        9,896       14,396      14,396   14,396
Reserves/retained earnings                        3,970        5,467       6,780       10,980   8,533
Profit of current period                              -            -            -           -   9,022
Subtotal equity                                 13,866      15,363       21,176       25,376   31,951
Total Liabilities and Equity                   278,534     376,860      508,370      781,262   1.044,740
Ratios
irnet  ratio                                         0.85         0.87         0.86         0.78   0.77
Long-term debt/equity ratio                          1.17         1.08         0.33        0.21   0.19
Total debt/equity ratio                             19.09        23.53        23.01       29.79   31.70
Loan portfolio/total assets (2)                        79           74           74           78   66
Loan portfolio/deposits (2)                           101           98           95          96   102
/a Including reserves for bad debt on short-term loans.
ASSIE
October 1988



- 117 -
ADPendix 2
Attachment 13
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Niaga: Audited Income Statements, 1984-87 and January-June 1988
(Rp million)
Jan-Jun
1984    1985    1986      1987        1988
(unaudited)
Income
Interest on loans                           } 43.430  59,419  70,797  109,558   } 74 807
Interest on notes/securities/placements   }                     2,103    3,233   }
Commissions and fees                           1,760   2,415   3,467    5,917        4,636
Income from foreign exchange transactions        854      638   1,824    2,430       2,218
Other operating income                           665      169      59        38        795
Nonoperating income (net)                        150      237     576       230   }
Total Income                               46,859  62,878  78,826  121,406       82,456
Expenses
Interest and commission expenses              26,585  39,312  44,018   75,915       53,031
Write-offs and provisions for bad debts        1,666   1,169   3,260    2,638        2,090
Salaries and other personnel expenses          7,251   8,868  11,106   15,575       10,358
Other general and administrative expenses    6,149   8,654  11,806   15,261          7,954
Total Expenses                             41,651  58,003  70,190  109,389       73,433
Net Income Before Tax                       5,208   4,875   8,636   12,017
Less:  Provision for tax                         1,700   1,600   2,972    4,350        3,158
Net Income                                  3,508   3,275   5,664    7,667        5,864
Stock dividend                                       -        -   2,100         -
Cash dividend                                    1,245      949   1,583    2,339
Ratios
Net profit/average equity (%)                  25.30   22.41   31.00    32.94        40.92
Net profit/average total assets (%)             1.26    1.00    1.28       1.19       1.28
Admin. exp./average total assets (%)            4.81    5.35    5.18      4.78        4.01
Admin. exp./average loan portfolio (%)          6.06    6.29    6.11      5.05        5.65
AS5IE
October 1988



-  118  -                                    AoPendix 2
Attachment 14
INDONESIA
SMALL AND NIlXUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Blank Umum,. Nasional__ Audited Rllane Shts * December 31  1984-87 and June 30, 1988
(Ep mtillion)
Dec 31,     Dec 31,     Dec 31,      Dec 31,  Jun 30,
1984        1985         1986        1987     1988
(unaudited)
Assets
Current Assets
Cash on hand                                     2,850       3,925        4,283       5,117   5,925
Due from Bank Indonesia                         15,288      24,750      26,6k.       38,365   43,553
Due from other banks                            4.988        7,308        6,353       9,097   11,650
Short-term deposit placements with other
banks                                        46,825       49,980     141,587      163,004   191,231
Promissory notes and bills                           -           -            -           -   -
Short-term loans                               195,565     294,244      114,747     171,970   217,932
Less: Reserve for bad debts                    (2,497)      (3,620)      (8,418)    (11.957)  (13.145)
Net short-term loans                          193,068     290,624      106,329     160,013   204,787
Other receivables                               15,461      16,808       18,480      30,974   53,588
Subtotal current assets                      2'8,480      393,395     303.656      406,570   510,734
Lon A-TerAssets
Long-term loans                                      -           -     291,330      311,500   344,003
Fixed assets                                    5,402        8,924        7,017      10,413   10,413
Less: Accumulated depreciation                  (!.49')     (1.953)     (1,997)      (3,967)  (5,164)
Net fixed assets                               3,905        6.971        5.020       6,446   5,249
Subtotal long-term assets                       3,905       6,971     296,350      317,946   349,252
Other Assets
Real and chattel properties                     2,794        6,056       11,883      16,717   18,467
Other                                             214          475         697          577   -
Subtotal other assets                           3,008       6,531       12,580      17,295   18,467
Total Assets                                 285,393      406,897     612,587      741,782   878,453
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Demand deposits                                 45,194      81,247       86,754     106,829   100,892
Time deposits                                  154,800     229,152     314,462      450,026   547,669
Savings deposits                                     -           -       3,888       11,669   23,400
Guarantee deposits                               5,328       8,018        9,991       9,864   13,252
Promiasory notes payable to banks (particl-
pation funds)                                  1,153       2,305            -           -   -
Short-term liquidity credits from 81           30,587       10,155      44,002       30,549   29,831
Due to other banks                             23,481       41,850     113.256       82,888   108,133
Tax payable                                        654       1,239        1,018         836   377
Other payables                                   9,822      15,015       15,357      20,593   22,086
Subtotal current liabilities                 271,019      388,981     588,728      713,254   845,640
Long-Term Liabilities                                 _            _           _            -   -
Equity
P id-up capital                                 9,100       11,325      13,250       13,250   13,250
Revaluation of assets                               -            -           -          937   937
General reserves                                    65         266       3,733        6,483   6,483
Retained earnings                                5,209       6,323       6,876        7,858   12,143
Subtotal equity                               14,374       17,914      23,859       28,528   32,813
Total Liabilltles and Equity                 285,393      406,895     612,587      741,782   878,453
Ratios
Current ratio                                       1.03        1.01        0.52         0.37   0.58
Long-term debt/equitv ratio                            0           0            0           0   0
Total debt/equity ratio                            18.8n       21.71       24.68        25.00   25.77
Loan portfolio/total assets (X)                       69          72           66          65   64
Loan portfolio/deposits (2)                           95          92           98          84   82
ASOoe
October 1988



- 119 -
Anpendix 2
Attachment 15
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Umum Nasional: Audited Income Statements, 1984-87 and January-June 1988
(Rp million)
Jan-Jun
1984    1985    1986      1987        1988
(unaudited)
Income
Interest
On loanis                                    35,529  54,166  71,618   93,931       56,830
On notes/securities/placements                6,414   6,803  15,962   22,670       14,207
Subtotal interest incozre                  41,943  60,969  87,580  116,601        71,037
Commissions and fees                                -       -   6,386    7,437            -
Income from foreign exchange transactions    1,523        500   2,711    2,542            -
Other operating income                          4,305   5,671   5,974    3,335        6,791
Nonoperating income                               451     369      164      453           -
Total Income                               48,222  67,515  98,815  130,365        77,828
Expenses
Interest expense                               28,343  42,280  55,933   82,570       53,690
Bad debt write-off                              1,844   2,155   3,500    3,086            -
Provision for bad debt                          1,864   1,123   4,797    3,570            -
Salaries and other personnel expenses           5,307   6,557   9,270   11,636        6,294
Other general and administrative expenses           -       -        -         -          -
Nonoperating expenses                           6,813   9,098  13,909   17,028       12,086
Total Expenses                             44,171  61,513  87,409  117,890        72,070
Net Income Before Tax                        4,051   6,002  11,406   12,475        5,758
Less:  Provision for tax                          1,548   2,182   4,531    4,617        1,656
Net Income                                   2,503   3,820   6,875    7,858        4,102
Ratios
Net profit/average equity (%)                   18.72   23.66   32.92    30.00        26.75
Net profit/average total assets (X)              0.93    1.10    1.35      1.16        1.01
Admin. exp./average total assets (X)             4.48    4.52    4.55      4.23        4.54
Admin. exp./average total loan portfolio (X)  6.70    5.32    6.62         6.44        7.03
AS5IE
October 1988



ApDendix 2
- 120 -                        Attachment 16
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Central Astst Audited 9elanc. Sheots. Defember 31. 1984-67 and June 30. 1968
June 80,
Dec. 81,  Doc. 31,  Doc. 81. Doc.  1,          19m
1984      196      196      198?       (uneudited)
£urrent Aeeote
Cash on hand                                6,122     9,984    12,551      11,497       14,649
Due from Sank Indonesia                    54,221    57,182    96,740     112,196       98,234
Slils and *cceptance.                       5,849     8,818    10,443    1116,038       114,456
Short-term loone                          260,094   438,065   628,774     917,678    1,076,838
Leest Rec-rve for bad debte                 1,819    6,793    15,010       14,904        12,586
Net *hort-tern loons                    279,165   432,060  608,764      902,774    1,065,752
Othor receivabloe                           8,165    13,480    20,842      25,756        17,958
Subtotal current assets                 441,862  698.421   991.800   1.445.062    1.72.569
Lono-Torm Assou;
LO:    ra loosa                             6,414    11,429    17,461      25,748        28,284
Equlty lnveetent                            4,063     4,092     4,285       4,287         4,298
Flxed assete                               12,469   22,088    81,724       51,201        58,112
Subtotal long-term a*sta                 22.98    37,604    58.490       61.281        90.e69
Total Asccte                          464.796   784,025 1.045.290   1.526,283    1.878.258
Liabilitie and Eaulty
Cur__r ntlblt
Deand deposit.                            138,182   182,749   232,774     254,700       292,116
Time deposits                             191,831   878,614   532,701     640,262    1,088,876
Savings deposit.                           10,262    17,846   28,613       33,967        39,827
Collateral deposits                        10,167    15,019    19,753      17,337        19,684
Taxes payable                               1,689       820     2,000       2,129             -
Due to Bank Indonesia                           -         -    6,640       48,986        80,606
Due to other banks                         51,176    46,665    99,330     190,118       227,820
Other current liabilities                  19,554    27,476    38,470      40,092        59,812
Subtotal current liabilities            418.080   66e.077   968.281   1.427-593    1,768,440
3PTi-up capital                            22,000    28,000    32,000      32,000        32,000
Convers on adjustments                          -       (3)     (226)         (19)           -
Revaluation o  asscet                           -         -         -       2,878         2,673
Retained earnings                          17,546    26,033    33,012      44,035       51,095
Subtotal equity                          39.s4e    54.030    e4.78e      78,e89       ss.7e8
Total Liabilities and Equlty          464.798  734.025 1.046.290   1.528.283    1.873.268
Ratios
Current ratlos                               1.06      1.04      1.03         1.01         1.01
Long-tarm debt/equity ratio                  0.18      0.22      0.34        0.25         0.25
Total debt/equity ratio                     10.76     12.59     15.13        18.40        20.84
Loan portfolio/total assets (3)                62        el        el          62            59
Loan poritfolio/deposits (X)                   8S        76        79          62           78
ASSIE
December 1988



AoDendix 2
- 121 -                        A,taehnt 17
INDONESIA
SMALL AND IIEZUM INDUSTRtAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Contral Asia: Audited Incoe Statements. l984-87 and Jae_ary-Jun  198*
JIn-June
198
Is4      198S     1ow       1987  (unaudited)
Income
Interest-
on loans                                    46,284    84,927   114,020   167,125       97,068
on notes/plao.msnts/deposlts                  2,407     2,808     2,510
Comisalone and la"                              4,221     0,140     0,692    12,990       9,624
Income from foreigfn *xchnng. tronsactions     20,691    12,840    24,920    24,654      20,819
Other income                                    1,806     1,468     2,B8S     4,388       6,377
Subtotal Income                             74.411   1086179   1651086   198 987      132.88S
Exnenso
Interest charges                              87,809    66,830    71,080   112,891       81,281
Provisions for bad debts                          808     5,754    17,084     6,620        1,871
General end administrative *xpensos            24,991    81,406    46,926    60,885       89,487
Nonop ratl ng expenses                            174       637     1,270         -            -
Subtotal expenseo                           82 ?0    94 629   11O.310   18O 88       1225!  9
Net Income beforo tax                       11631    18.6so    14.72S    11W591       9 79r
Loss:  Provision for tax                        3,985     6,068     6,449     7,568
Osproctation adjustment                             -         -     1,297         -            -
Net Income                                   7 648     6.46t     6.979    11028           _
Ratios
Not profit/average equity (U)                   21.40     18.14     11.16     16.37         n.O.
Net profit/average total assets (U)              1.60      1.42      0.78      0.86        n.e.
Adm. *xp./average total assets (X)               5.t7      6.24      6.27      4.74        4.64
Adm. *xp./average loan portfolio (X)            11.81      0.52      8.80      7.68        7.10
ASSIE
December 1985



-  122  -                               Appendix 2
Attachment 18
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
UPPINDO:  Summarized Balance Sheets," Deember 31, 1985-87 and June 30, 1988
(Rp million)
Dec 31,        Dec 31,         Dec 31,         Dec 31,       Jun 30,
1984           1985            1986            1987          1988
(unaudited)
Assets
Current Assets
Cash on hand                                        2,436           1,499           2,357            2,614       2,229
Notes/securities/short-term placements             22,823          20,469         34,664           49,861       69,806
Short-term loans                                        -               -          4,375           14,436       21,465
Current portion of long-term loans                  8,200           9,055          15,956          20,504       18,914
Other current assets                                2,846           4,469          4,391             6,520       7,638
Subtotal current assets                           36,305         35,492          61,743           93,935      120,052
Long-Term Assets
Cofinancs ng with RDBs                              6,906          11,312          11,288           11,309      11,851
Long-term loans                                    39,918         53,459          74,846          103,709      132,734
Less:  Reserve for bad debts                      (1,218)         (1,953)         (2,329)          (3,297)      (4,432)
Less:  Current portion                             (8,200)        (9,055)        (15,957)         (20,504)    (18,914)
Net long-term loans                              37,406          53,763          67,848           91,217      121,239
Equity participation                                1,326           1,360          2,017            2,097        1,720
Subtotal long-term portfolio                     38,732          55,123          69,865           93,314      122,959
Net fixed assets                                      144           1,812            206               321      10,040
Other                                               1,556           1,818          4,694             7,751       2,727
Subtotal long-term assets                        40,432          58,753          74,765          101,386      135,726
Total Assets                                      76,737         94,245         136,508          195,321      255,778
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Current portion of long-term debt                   3,098           3,225           5,824            7,077       5,608
Promissory notes                                   6,995           6,790          11,359           26,892       28,121
Short-term loans                                        -               -          8,205           24,750       28,662
Accounts payable                                    1,791          2,034           3,130             5,326       6,417
Subtotal current liabilities                      11,884         12,049          28,518           64,045       68,808
Long-Term Liabilities
BI liquidity credits                                1,182             94'           1,135             971          971
Loans from BI                                     46,662          61,784          78,946           98,719      151,908
Other                                               8,643          8,511          12,308           15,063       13,973
Less:  Current portion                             (3,098)        (3,225)         (5,824)          (7,07,       (5,608)
Subtotal long-term liabilities                   53,389          68,018          86,565          107,676      161,244
Equity
Paid-up capital                                    8,000          10,300          16,400           17,220       17,220
Reserves                                            1,566          2,475           2,868            3,185        3,185
Retained earnings                                   1,898          1,403           2,157            3,195        3,195
Net income for current year                                             -              -                -        2,126
Subtotal equity                                   11,464         14,178          21,425           23,600       25,726
Total Liabilities and Equity                     76,737          94,245         136,508          195,321      255,778
Ratios
Current ratio                                          3.05            2.95            2.16             1.47        1.75
Long-term debt/equity ratio                            4.66            4.79            4.05            4.56         6.28
Total debt/equity ratio                                5.69            5.63            5.37             7.28        8.95
Loan portfolio/total assets (X)                          61              69              66               66          65
ASSIE
October 1988



Aopendix 2
Attachment 19
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
UPPINDO: Audited Income Statements, 1985-87 and January-June 1988
(Rp million)
Jan-Jun
1984     1985      1986     1987         1988
(unaudited)
Income
Interest
On loans                                         9,403   12,887   16,319   24,544        15,992
On notes/securities/placements                           1
Subtotal interest
Commissions and fees                                 675      914    1,146    1,112           598
Foreign exchange transactions (net)                   98     (197)   1,577       232           (6)
Other operating income                               668      106       300      507          482
Total Income                                   10,844   13,710   19,342   26,395        17,066
Expenses
Interest charges on borrowings                     4,447    7,086    9,845   15,902        11,590
Salaries and other personnel expenses              1,281    1,614    1,928    2,315         1,398
Other operating and misc. expenses /a                821      936    1,166    1,377           776
Provision for bad debts                            1,404    1,885    2,964    1,832         1,176
Total Expenses                                 7,953   11,521   15,903   21,426         14,940
Net Income Before Taxes                        2,891    2,189    3,439    4,969          2,126
Less:  Provision for taxes                             993      786    1,283    1,774             _
Net Income                                      1,898    1,403    2,156    3,195             -
;Ratios
Net profit/average equity (X)                      17.86    10.94    12.11    14.19             -
Net profit/average total assets (%)                 2.83     1.64      1.87     1.93            -
Admin. exp./average total assets (%)                2.13     2.98      2.68     2.23         1.93
Admin. exp./average loan portfolio (%)              5.07     4.57      4.10     3.67         3.26
/a  Includes depre^iation.
AS5IE
October 1988



Aippendix 2
-124 -                                      Attachment20
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
BAPINDO: Summarized Balance Sheets. Dec. 31. 1983-1987/a and Sept. B0. 1988Ab
(Rp million)
1983        1984         1985        1988         1987        19e8
Dec. 31.    Dec. 31.    Dec. 31.    Dec. 31.    Dec. 81.    Sept. 30.
Assets
Current Assets:
Cash in Hand A Bank           33,676      46,656       82,793      46,584       57,223       118,971
Short-term Investments           100        7,525      46,398     298,541      198,066        53,530
Export Bills
Purchased                      -         2,060        2,072      21,753       35,696       46,065
Accrued Interest              15,723      28,065       24,208      28,680       14,077        31,592
(of which Prov.
for loss)                 (16,478)    (26,431)    (48,836)    (46,819)    (17,358)        (18,005)
Current Maturity of
Loans                      124,699     197,170      264,072     346,978      492,298      448,069
Other Current Assets           3,240       5,716      191,194      33,052       39,843      151,485
Subtotal current assets   177,338      287,191      560,737     775,588      837,099      848,702
Long-term Assets:
Loans                        772,292     926,968      910,175   1,028,336   1,342,153    1,847,015
Equity Investment             48,243      45,205       51,840      53,112       56,281       56,976
Sub-total                  816,535     972,173      962,015   1,081,448   1,398,974    1,903,991
Less: Current
Maturities          124,599      197,170     264,072      346,978     492,298       448,059
Less: Prov. for Losses      18,924      19,875       14,764      27,042       62,752       83,395
Net portfolio              672,012     756,108      683,189     707,428      843,928    1,372,537
Other long-term assets         3,617       4,478        5,273       8,172       14,111       19,775
Subtotal long-term
assets                  e76,529      759,586     688,462      715,600     858,037    1,392,312
Total Assets               852.887   1,046.777   1.249.199   1.491.188   1,695,136    2.241,014
AS5IE
January 1989



- 125 -
Appendix 2
Attachment2f
Page 2
1988        1984        198s       1986         1987        1988
Doe. a1.   Dec. 81.   Dec. a1.   Doc. 81.   Dec. 31.   Sept. 80.
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities:
Deposits                     78,689     100,628     162,708     284,379     829,839      402,022
Accrued Expenses             18,872      21,771      a2,a69      16,249      25,965      34,890
Customer Deposits            2,892          738       1,746       5,822      6,973      137,070
Current Maturity of Borr.    6e,069     19,824      198,640     189,189    189,988       126,222
Othor Current Liab.          28,621      14,644      20,780     88,158      70,149       63,222
Subtotal current Liab.    179,622     287,397     820,893     488,742     672,409     768,426
Special Deposits            117,962     142,753     152,936     126,810     166,996      96,090
Long term Liabilities
Govt. & Bank Indonesia     406,493      494,047    636,829    606,499    646,867        796,854
Bonds Payable L!             20,133      24,885     24,596      74,744      74,949      156,066
IBRD. KFW. IDA. ADS         63,668      93,056     117,099     169,368     127,099      218,441
Other Borrowings            12,692      11,858      19,086       9,228       6,9n7        8,18a
Total L.T. Borrowings    602,828      623,336    688,046     799,824     866,392    1,172,958
Less: Curr. Maturities    60,998      199,824     168,640    189,139     189,988      126,222
Net L.T. Borrowings    446,728      528,911    684,406    "0,685       715,469    1,046,738
Total Liabilities         744.262    90.3161   10658.228   1.221.237   1.394.808    1.906.252
Stock holders' Equity:
Paid-in capital             90,861     127,648     177,179     249,694     249,094      249,094
Retained Earnings           17,764       16,973     13,792      20,857      51,234       86,668
Net Equity               108,616      148,616    196,971     269,951     800,328     835,762
Total Liab. A Equity     862,867   1,0468777   1.249,199   1.491.188   1.896,586   2.241,014
Off Balance Sheet Item:
Managed Funds                117,841     154,392    285,995      25,896       866,684     386,999
Ratios:
Current                        1.0         1.2         1.7         1.8         1.5          1.1
Total Dobt/Equity              6.7         6.8          5.6        4.6         4.6          6.7
LT Debt L /Equity              5.2         4.8         8.9         2.9         2.7          8.4
Debt /! /Equ7ty                S.7         5.3         4.4         8.4         8.2          8.8
(IBRD formula) /S
*/ Audited.
/ Unaudited.
c/ Sinking Fund Investment is shown as part of short-term investments
under current assets.
oJ  Foreign currency borrtwings of the Qovernment with back-to-back
relending to BAPINDO.
e/  Special deposit. treated as a long-term debt.
T   Current maturities are treted as part of long-term debt.
AS5IE
January 1989



__126 -
ADpendix 2
Attachment 21
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
SAPIISO: S    rized Incoe_ Statemnts 1983-87-U?     1988 (0 months) ob
(Rp mlliIon)
(9 months)
106          1934         1965         193           193?         1993
INCOME
Income from
Loeans                      9115        11773         16es84       118209       176769        171n6
Income from
Securities A
Dopoit.                     102          1829          4698        32668        28664         11726
Other Income                  was          563I          7942        3M774        46860         88386
Total Incom               062         124u5        loom          17C691       24427a        221971
EXPENSES
Interest Cos                 46522        67288        6623          94217       167375        116203
Admin. Exp.                  21714        19266         21382        26993        37621         27199
Provy for Louse               9892        29033    70165             56488        44134         21600
Total Exoenses            79928       115571        178120       166748       189180        166502
ProfIt before tax              12224          02           2769        15842        56148         56469
Lose: Tax provision             6317         3397          189         a040         20685         20329
Net profit                      5967         56a8          1236         7802       38568          36140
RATIOS:
As X Av. Total Assets:
(a) T. Incom                11.9         13.1         15.6         12.9          15.3          14.C/C
(b) Interest Cost            8.2          7.1          7.5          6.1           6.7           7.S/C
(c) Ores_ Mrgin
(s) - (b)              5.7          6.6          8.1          6.S          8.6            7.6F
(d) Prov. for Losses         1.8          3.0          6.1          3.7           2.8           1.6/C
(e) Admin. Exp.              2.6          2.0          1.8          1.9           2.8           1.8/;
(f) Profit before Tax        1.6          1.0          0.2          1.2           8.6           3.?/S
(9) Net Profit               6.8          6.6          9.1          6.6           2.2           2.4/C
Not Profit as X of
Av. Equity                    5.6          4.5          0.8           8.4         12.8          11.4/s
Debt Serv. Cover               N.A.         N.A.         N.A.          1.11         1.54          1.09
Interest Cover a/              N.A.         N.A.         N.A.          1.79         2.16          1.42
3   Audited.
/ Unaudited.
/ Annualized percentags.
(Net profit * Non-cash chorge  * Interest Cost * Accrued Interest Beginning of the Year -
Accrued Interet End of the Year + Cash Collection* of Loon Principal + Sale of Investmnts) -
(Interet Cost * Repaymnt of Borrowings).
it (Not profit + Non-cash charge * Interest cost + Accrued Interest Beginning of Year - Accrued
Interest End of Year - Interest Cost.
AS5IE
January 1989



