Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15205
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN 3041-IND)
DECEMBER 27, 1995
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00  Indonesian Rupiall (Rp) 1,700 (appraisal)
1989: US$ 1.00 = Rp. 1,770
1990: US$1.00 = Rp. 1,843
1991: US$1.00 = Rp. 1.950
1992: US$1.00 = Rp. 2-2030
1993: US$ ].(0 = Rp. 2,079
1994: U S$1.00 = Rp. 2.160
1995: US$1.00 = Rp. 2.250
FISCAL YEAR
Goveriaimemit:
April I-Marchl 31
Participating Banks:
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFP                Agricultural Financing Project
BI                 Bank Indonesia
FSDP               Flinanicial Sector Developmenit Project
IRP                Industrial Restructuring Project
LPPI               lndonesiain Banking Developmenit Institute
MOF                Ministry of Finance
PB                 Participating Banlk
PCB                Private Commercial Bank
RDB                Regional Development Bank
RPMU               Regional Project Managemenit Unit
SCB                State Commllercial Bank
SEDP               Small Enterprise Developmenit Project
SMIE                Small and Medium-sized Industrial E.nterprise
SMIEP              Small and Medium Industl-ial Enterprise Project
SP                 Service Provider
TA                 Techlnical Assistance
TAUI               Technical Assistance Unit
TPAL               Trade Policv Adjustme-nt Loan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface ................................................                                                                        (i)
Evaluation Summary ................................................                                                           (ii)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .........................................I
A.  Statement/Evaluation  of Objectives ................................................I
B. Achievement of Objectives ..................................................2
Increasing Supply of Unsubsidized Term Finance to SMIEs ...................... 2
Institutional Development of Participating  Banks ..............................................5
Development of SMIEs .................................................5
Provision  of Quality  Technical Assistance to  SMIEs ......................................... 7
Strengthening  of Domestic Consulting  Industry .................................................9
Financial Objectives ..................................................9
Other Objectives .................................................                                                  10
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................................                                         10
D. Project Sustainability .................................................11
E. Bank Performance ................................................                                                            12
F. Borrower Performance ..................................................13
G.  Assessment of Outcome ................................................ 14
H. Future Operations ................................................                                                           15
I. Key Lessons Learned ................................................                                                         15
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ................................................                                                    17
Table  1:  Summary of Assessment .................................................8   X
Table 2:  Related  Bank Loans/Credits .................................................                                        20
Table 3: Project Timetable .21
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .                                                       1
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation.                                                                                 22
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .23
Table 8A:  Project Costs ............................................                                                          24
Table 8B:  Project Financing .............................................                                                     25
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ...........................................                                          -.26
Table  10:   Status of Legal Covenants ...........................................                                             28
Table  11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ......................................                               30
Table  12:  Bank  Resources:  Staff Inputs ...........................................                                         30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ................................................                                                            31
Table 14:  Credit Allocation and Utilization by Participating Bank ............................ 32
Table  15:   Subsector Distribution  of Subloans .................................................                                              3 3
Table  16:   Regional Distribution  of Subloans ................................................                                                34
Table  17:   Loan  Collection  Ratios by  Participating  Banks .......................................... 35
APPENDIX A: Mission's Aide-Memoire .................................................                                                           36



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(Loan 3041-IND)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Small and Medium
Industrial Enterprise Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 3041-IND in the amount of
US$100.0 million was approved in April 1989, and became effective in September 1989.
2.    The Loan closed on June 30, 1995 as originally foreseen. Final disbursements
were made on June 1, 1995, bringing cumulative total disbursements to US$94.34
million, and cancellation of the undisbursed amount of US$5.66 million.
3.      This ICR was prepared by Oscar de Bruyn Kops, Senior Operations Officer,
EA31E Division of the East Asia Region, and was reviewed by Messrs. Peter R. Scherer,
Division Chief (EA3IE), and Richard Calkins, Operations Adviser (EA3DR).
Preparation of this ICR was begun at the same time as the Bank's final supervision
mission which visited Indonesia in June 1995. It is based on material in the project files
as well as findings of the ICR mission in the field. The Borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by providing comments and contributing views reflected in the
mission's aide-memoire. It has not prepared a separate report contribution.






ii
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(Loan 3041-IND)
Evaluation Summaiy
Introduction
The project formed part of the Bank's strategy in support of Indonesian industrial
sector development, to foster, on the one hand, a conducive policy and regulatory
environment for efficient sector growth, and, on the other hand, strengthen sectoral supply
response through targeted technical and financial assistance.  Besides the project, this
strategy was supported by a combination of two earlier Bank-l nanced trade policy
adjustment loans (No. 2780 and 2937-END), two earlier export development projects (Loans
2702 and 2979-IND), and a parallel industrial restructuring project (Loan 3040-IND)
targeted at larger firms. The project design would also address weaknesses in an earlier
series of three Bank-financed Small Enterprise Development Projects (approved during
FY78-84) -- subsidized interest rates, insufficient spreads to intermediaries, and overly
generous credit insurance -- which had resulted in poor borrower selection and unsatisfactory
loan collection rates.
Project Objectives
The project's main objective was to increase the supply of unsubsidized term finance
and high-quality technical assistance to qualified small and medium industrial enterprises
(SMIEs). Secondary objectives were: (i) to develop the capacity of the local consulting
industry to offer cost-effective, quality technical services to local manufacturing enterprises;
and (ii) to enhance the financial system's capacity for analyzing and managing investment
financing. By providing term credit and technical assistance, the project would help develop
the SMIE segment of industrial enterprises, thereby increasing manufacturing value added
and employment.
The project consisted of an investment credit component and a technical assistance
(TA) component. The US$100 million Bank loan was onlent through 13 participating banks
(PBs) to finance viable investment proposals of eligible SMIEs. Bank funds were onlent to
the PBs at rates based on the cost of their deposits. The TA component, co-financed by a
Japanese grant and a Netherlands Government grant/loan, involved: (a) a cost sharing
program for firm-level TA undertaken by pre-qualified domestic consultants; (b) training of
local consultants, SMIE staff, and the participating banks; (c) preparation of topical studies
to analyze selected SMIE development issues; and (d) funding an Appraisal Advisor to
advise PB staff on subproject appraisal and reporting requirements. The TA component was
administered by a central TA unit (TAU) located at the Indonesian Banking Development
Institute (LPPI).



Hii
Overall. the project objectives were responsive to the need to support the accelerated
development of competitive SMIEs. The project design was relatively complex, however,
involving three sets of beneficiaries -- SMIEs, domestic service providers, and participating
banks -- and a large number (13) of financial intermediaries with varied backgrounds. In
addition, the project design was flawed in treating domestic consultants both as beneficiaries
of TA support for necessary strengthening and as vehicles for high-quality firm-level
assistance to SMIEs for which in most cases they did not have the requisite capacity.
Implementation Experience and Results
Overall achievement of project objectives has been partial. While the credit line for
SMIE investment was committed quickly, it is unlikely that this has achieved a sustainable
increase in term financing for SMIEs in view of: (i) poor subloan collection performance by
most of the PBs, except for three private banks, which highlights continued weaknesses in
credit skills of most of the state banks; (ii) indications that part of Bank credit may have
refinanced earlier SMIE clients of the PBs, facilitated by the relatively low cost of Bank
funds because of the lag in adjusting onlending rates during the period of rapid country-wide
interest rate rises (1990-91); and (iii) financing of firms and subproject investments which
were considerably larger than foreseen. While in case of most private banks the project has
contributed to developing their SMIE lending business, project actions for institutional
strengthening of the state and regional PBs have been insufficient. In view of the relatively
large subprojects financed by the credit line, the project has supported just 392 SMIE
investments rather than the 700 envisaged. As these investments were much more capital
intensive than envisaged, employment creation has been less than one-third of expectations.
Impact on manufacturing value added has probably fallen short of appraisal estimates.
Regarding the TA cost-sharing program, the number of assignments was less than
expected and only few feasibility studies led to bank financing. Quality deficiencies in cost-
shared work and the emphasis on feasibility studies rather than broader firm-level TA
interventions prevented a more durable link between SMIEs and service providers as
envisaged. The revolving TA fund to sustain cost-shared TA operations by service providers
has not materialized as SMIEs were unwilling to repay the matching grant contributions.
The execution of training programs and preparation of topical studies have exceeded
appraisal expectations, but remained limited in scope and follow-up.
Factors which influenced project outcome include the impact of Government's
continued banking deregulation (1988-90), the phasing out of most subsidized small business
lending programs (1990), and the introduction of a tight monetary policy (1990). In different
ways these factors helped to accelerate the use of Bank funds, but also adversely affected
subborrower's repayment capacity. The rapid rise of interest rates in the country made Bank
funds particularly attractive to the PBs in view of the lag in the formula for adjusting
onlending rates. The delays in starting-up the TA component contributed to the limited use
of TA feasibility studies for SMIE credit proposals. The termination of Dutch aid in 1992
led to downsizing of the TA component, and financing by BI of local TA costs.



iv
Bank performance during project preparation was deficient in gaining better
understanding on: (i) status and constraints of the SMIE sector in terms of financing needs
and demand for TA services; (ii) the quality of investment credit analysis by the PBs; and
(iii) ability of domestic consulting firms to provide high-quality services.   Project
supervision focused on quantitative achievement of implementation goals (subloan
commitments and TA outputs) but with insufficient attention to quality of results and
subproject implementation results. The Bank was too late in identifying the poor subloan
collection performance by most banks -- a minimum 80 percent ratio had been covenanted as
condition of continued project participation -- which prevented effective remedial action.
Government performance has been satisfactory, while overall performance of participating
banks and service providers has been deficient. In view of the limited quality, and the
unlikely sustainability, of project results, the overall project outcome is considered
unsatisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
The project focus on three beneficiary target groups -- SMIEs, participating banks,
and service providers -- made the project too complex and operationally incoherent. This
has been exacerbated by mixing the role of the service providers as project beneficiaries for
strengthening with their role as high-quality channels of TA for SMIE development. The
overall lesson is to keep project design simple and focused, avoiding multiple target groups
and assistance delivery channels. Lessons for similar credit and TA projects are as follows:
(i)    Be very selective in the choice of participating financial intermediaries based on
strong institutional and financial capacities;
(ii)    Choose eligibility criteria for project beneficiaries which are administratively simple;
(iii)   Choose formula for determining onlending rates in domestic currency of Bank funds
to financial intermediaries which are based on current market rates of alternative banks'
funding sources;
(iv)   In selection of loan collection ratio covenants, ensure that the mechanism for ratio
calculation is in place at project start-up and that it allows credible remedial action against
intermediaries in non-compliance;
(v)    Carry out detailed prior analysis of the TA needs of beneficiary firms, assessing the
demand for different types of services and willingness to pay;
(vi)   Build into project design monitoring systems of subproject implementation results
and TA impact; and
(vii)  In Bank supervision, combine and integrate as much as possible the supervision of
Bank projects with similar participating institutions and beneficiaries.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(Loan 3041-IND)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The project's main objective was to increase the supply of unsubsidized term finance
and high-quality technical assistance to qualified small and medium industrial enterprises
(SMIEs). Secondary objectives were: (i) to develop the capacity of the local consulting
industry to offer cost-effective, quality technical services to local maiiufacturing enterprises;
and (ii) to enhance the financial system's capacity for analyzing and managing investment
financing. By providing term credit and technical assistance, the project would help develop
the SMIE segment of industrial enterprises to plan and implement their investment and
operational strategies for the purpose of modernizing, expanding and diversifying their
production, thereby increasing manufacturing output and employment.
2.    The project consisted of an investment credit component and a technical assistance
(TA) component. The US$100 million Bank loan was onlent through 13 participating banks
(PBs) to finance viable investment proposals of eligible SMIEs. Bank funds was onlent by
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and Bank Indonesia (BI) at rates based on the cost of PBs'
deposits. The Bank loan would finance 80 percent of subloans of up to US$375,000 for
fixed investment and an additional 40 percent (US$150,000) for permanent working capital
needs, of enterprises engaged in manufacturing, agro-processing, or related services, with
full-time employment from 20 to 150 and with operating assets below US$500,000
(excluding land and inventories). The TA component (US$13.6 million cost, of which
US$9.2 million co-financed by a Japanese grant and a Netherlands Government grant/loan
package) involved: (a) a cost sharing TA program for SMIEs undertaken by pre-qualified
domestic consultants to help prepare high-quality investment proposals and provide other
firm-level assistance; (b) training of local consultants, SMIE staff, and the three participating
regional development banks; (c) preparation of topical studies to analyze selected SMIE
development issues; and (d) funding an Appraisal Advisor to advise PB staff on subproject
appraisal and reporting requirements. The TA component would be administered by a
central TA unit (TAU) located at the Indonesian Banking Development Institute (ILPPI).
3.    The project formed part of the Bank's strategy in support of industrial sector
development to foster, on the one hand, a conducive policy and regulatory environment for
efficient sector growth, and, on the other hand, strengthen sectoral supply response through
targeted technical and financial assistance. Besides the project, this strategy was supported
by a combination of two earlier Bank-financed trade policy adjustment loans (No. 2780 and
2937-IND), two earlier export development projects (loans 2702 and 2979-IND). and a
parallel industrial restructuring project (Loan 3040-IND) targeted at larger firms. Although
it was recognized that the prevailing trade, regulatory and financial environment favored
larger firms and small household firms (monthly less than 5 persons employed) over SMIEs,



2
it was felt that industrial deregulation in Indonesia supported by the earlier TPALs had
sufficiently advanced to proceed with the project without specific accompanying SME policy
measures.
4.    Although no detailed credit survey of SMIEs had been undertaken prior to the
project, the presumption was that the introduction of a source of term finance for SMIEs,
together with the use of qualified local consultants for firm-level assistance and for
generating high-quality investment proposals, would help address three financial constraints
on SMIE expansion: (i) limited access of SMIEs to state bank investment financing which
was more focused on large firms, and small household units through Government directed
credit programs; (ii) short maturity structure of private bank lendilg, inhibiting longer term
capital investment; and (iii) the absence of sound investment appraisal skills which had led
to conservative reliance of lending based on collateral, of which SMIEs had relatively little,
rather than project viability. By offering credit to SMIEs at market-based rates with all
credit risk taken by the participating banks, the project design- would also address
weaknesses in an earlier series of three Bank-financed Small Enterprise Development
Projects (approved during FY78-84) -- subsidized interest rates, insufficient spreads to
intermediaries, and overly generous credit insurance -- which had resulted in poor borrower
selection and unsatisfactory loan collection rates.
5.    While project objectives were responsive to the need to support the accelerated
development of competitive SMIEs, project design was relatively complex, involving three
sets of beneficiaries -- SMIEs, domestic service providers, and participating banks -- and a
large number (13) of financial intermediaries with varied backgrounds, sizes and institutional
capacities. In addition, the project design contained a flaw in treating domestic consultants
both as beneficiaries of support for necessary strengthening and as vehicles for high-quality
firm-level assistance to SMIEs for which is most cases they did not yet have the capacity.
B. Achievement of Objectives
Increasing Supply of Unsubsidized Term Fbinance to SMIEs
6.    Involvement participating banks. The Bank loan was made available to thirteen
participating banks (PBs) which were judged to be suitable intermediaries for lending to
SMIEs. As a group they accounted for more than 75 percent of banking assets in Indonesia
and mobilized most of the savings. They included four state commercial banks (BR!, BNI,
BDN, BBD), four private commercial banks (BCA, Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, BUN), two
development finance institutions (BAP[NDO, UPPfNDO), and three regional development
banks (RDB East Java, RDB Central Java, RDB North Sumatra). Each of the banks has been
active under the project, with the SCBs absorbing the majority of the funds used (US$57.4
million, 61% of total), followed by the PCBs (US$17.3 million, 18%), DFIs (US$10.1
million, 11%), and RDBs (US$9.5 million, 10%) (Table 14). The main participants with
more than 50 subloans each have been BRI (92 subloans), BDN (62 subloans), BNI (54
subloans), and BCA (50 subloans). While most banks utilized close to their preallocated
Bank loan share, a few banks reduced their allocations due to lower than expected credit
demand (Bank Duta, UPPINDO), while some others increased their share (BNI, BDN, the
three RDBs). Toward the end of the project, two banks had major shares of their allocation



3
canceled (BBD, US$2.4 million; BAPINDO, US$2.3 million) due to their inability to use the
funds (both), and non-compliance with financial covenants (BAPINDO).
7.     Onlending at market rates. To bring the cost of Bank funds in line with that of other
sources of funds, Bank loan proceeds was passed on to the PBs at a rate, adjusted every six
months, equal to the weighted average cost of PB deposits (excluding non-interest bearing
deposits from Government entities) over the previous six-month period.' The PBs relent the
loan proceeds to subborrowers at prevailing market rates. As it turned out, the onlending
formula became an important factor in Bank loan utilization. As the Government, in an effort
to curb inflation and an overheating economy, tightened domestic liquidity in May 1990,
domestic deposit and lending rates increased rapidly in the second half of 1990. Since
adjustments in the onlending rate of Bank funds lagged developments in market rates in view
of the formula adopted, utilization of the Bank loan accelerated as the PBs capitalized on the
higher lending spreads. The tight money policy also increased reliance on Bank funds in
view of reduced bank liquidity. Within two years, more than half of the Bank loan had been
disbursed or more than double the amount expected at appraisal for that period (Table 4).
There are indications also that the PBs used the cost differential between Bank funds and
alternative sources to refinance a considerable number of their earlier approved credits to
previous SMIE clients by using the lower-cost Bank funds. This was allowed under the
Bank loan as long as the Bank had received subproject documentation for approval within 90
days of subproject expenditures (the "90-day rule"). In a number of cases, the Bank team
also gave its approval to an extension of the 90-day period. This development raised doubts
about: (i) the suitability of the project's onlending formula in periods of more volatile
monetary conditions; and (ii) the extent to which lending generated by the project concerned
additional lending to SMIEs, as had been envisaged, or was partly displacing PB lending to
existing SMIE customers.
8.    Subloan realizations. Overall, US$94.4 million of the Bank loan has been disbursed
for a total of 392 subloans by the PBs (the remaining US$5.6 million was canceled). This is
considerably below the 700 subloans expected at appraisal on account of the larger
subprojects financed than had been foreseen (see below). As a result, the actual average
subloan size (US$241,000) financed from the Bank loan was well above the appraisal
estimate (US$143,000). Most subloans were in the upper range of the eligible subloan size
(US$420,000 including working capital, for the Bank loan financed portion; US$525,000
including minimum PB subloan contributions stipulated at 25 percent of Bank's
contribution). About two-thirds of total subloans (including PB portion) exceeded Rp.500
million (US$256,000 in 1991 prices), and 19% were over Rp.l billion (US$513,000). While
Bank loan-financed subloan portions largely followed the agreed subloan limit, PB
contributions have exceeded their share in many cases leading to combined subloan values in
excess of the agreed ceiling. Subloan maturities have ranged from 3-10 years, including
grace periods of 6-12 months. Longest terms have been granted by the RDBs. Onlending
rates to final borrowers followed overall interest rate trends and have been in the range of 16-
25 percent p.a. In line with their general practice, SCB rates have been somewhat lower than
those of the PCBs.
'   The differential between the Bank's prevailing interest rate and the domestic onlending rate to the
PBs would also cover the Government's foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan.



4
9.     Collection performance. To address the weaknesses in earlier SEDP projects and to
allow closer monitoring of the PBs' financial performance, the project included a stipulation
that all banks should maintain a loan collection ratio on SMIEP and other Bank industrial
credit lines (IRP) of at least 80 percent for continued project participation. It turned out that
most of the PBs had difficulty meeting the target. Consolidated BI data show that the
average collection ratio remained well below the agreed level (Table 17), but that results
have varied considerably by bank. While three of the four private banks have maintained a
satisfactory collection performance, virtually all other banks have stayed well below the
threshold. Performance of the RDB has been particularly poor.
10.   A review undertaken in 1993 analyzed the causes of collection problems, and
identified  serious problems  in  PB  loan  approval procedures  and  in  subproject
implementation by subborrowers. There also were problems in compiling accurate subloan
collection information due to delays and inaccuracy in reporting, and differences in
calculation methodologies. Weaknesses identified in PB subproject -ppraisals included: (i)
lack of appraisal documents for a large number of subprojects surveyed; (ii) insufficient
background information on subborrowers, including on their affiliated businesses; (iii) little
assessment of availability of sponsor equity funds; (iv) poor project costing; (v) inadequate
financial project analysis; and (vi) disregard for impact of external economic conditions on
subproject viability.   Review  of a sample of subprojects identified the following
implementation problems: (a) implementation delays leading to cost overruns; (b)
underestimation of project costs and unavailability of sponsor equity, leading to financing
shortfalls and working capital deficiencies; (c) marketing problems due to inadequate
product quality; (d) technical deficiencies in investment plans; and (e) in 20 percent of cases
surveyed, reallocation of loan funds to other purposes. Of concern is the Bank's late
identification of the collection problem. Prior to 1993, Bank supervision does not raise the
issue. By the time the problem had been analyzed (mid-1993), virtually all Bank funds had
been committed and the Bank had little remedial action.
11.   Additional source of SMJE term finance. A major aim of the project was to generate
additional term finance in support of SMIE investment through provision of long-term funds
to the thirteen selected banks. To assess project results against this objective, it would be
necessary to determine the extent to which banks have directed additional term credit to
SMIEs as a result of the project. Indications are that results have been mixed in this regard.
The aim for the four large SCBs was to direct and expand their existing term lending practice
to include SMIEs. As it turns out, part of the credit line allocation for the SCBs may have
served to refinance earlier credit to their previous SMIE clients (using the "90-day rule")
benefiting from the relatively low cost Bank funds at the time of rising interest rates. With
regard to the PCBs, the impact may have been more substantial in helping them develop
term lending to new SMIE clientele in view of the short maturity structure of their other
funding sources. Achievement and sustainability of project results in this area has been
adversely affected by the limited project impact on credit appraisal skills of most of the state-
owned and regional banks. Only in the case of the PCBs, which are judged to follow more
professional credit procedures, is the project likely to have had a more lasting impact in
developing new SMIE lending.



S
Institutional Development of Participating Banks
12.   While the thirteen participating banks (PBs) had been selected on the basis of their
perceived strengths in operational performance, staffing skills, financial viability and
experience in handling term credit to SMIEs, it was recognized that most of them needed
further upgrading of their loan evaluation and administrative procedures to efficiently handle
the relatively large number of subloan applications under the project. In addition, many of
the PBs (particularly the four private banks and the three regional development banks) had
not participated in World Bank projects before and were unfamiliar with Bank procedures.
To help strengthen PBs' credit appraisal and supervision capacities, the project included: (i)
appointment of an appraisal advisor at LPPI to train and advise PB staff; (ii) selected training
courses for PB staff undertaken by LPPI/TAU; (iii) a separate training program for the three
RDBs organized by LPPI; and (iv) a number of special actions for the state-owned
development bank. BAPINDO, to help strengthen its earlier measures for addressing
weaknesses in portfolio management and loan collection, including appointment of a senior
banking advisor and preparation of a long-term development strategy and implementation
plan.
13.   Implementation of these measures has been carried out to varying degrees. The
appraisal advisor has been active from the start of the project, when Bank staff organized an
initial orientation seminar for all PBs outlining loan appraisal and documentation procedures.
His impact has been limited, however, by the large number of banks and subloan
applications involved. From his location in Jakarta it was not possible to adequately cover
the various PBs and their branch offices in the regions, and his involvement largely involved
pre-screening of subloan applications for Bank approval and speeding up the subloan
approval process. The training of PB staff organized by LPPI/TAU involved eight special
Courses during 1991-94. involving a total of 228 participants. These involved short-duration
courses focusing on preparation of subloan appraisal documents, bank MIS, and loan quality
control. The separate training program for the RDBs undertaken by LPPI was delayed by
almost a year which affected their capacity to submit satisfactory subloan applications.
Particular weaknesses were reported in aspects of financial and economic analysis of RDB
subproject submissions. In the case of BAPINDO there were substantial delays in submitting
its long-term development strategy beyond the agreed date (March 1990). In view of its
continued non-compliance with financial covenants, the Bank in consultation with the
Government in 1994 canceled BAPINDO's uncommitted loan balance (US$2.3 million). As
discussed above, the continued institutional weaknesses in most of the PBs (particularly in
credit appraisal and supervision) is reflected in their poor subloan collection performance.
Development of SMIEs
14.   Firm-level and subproject achievements. Most of the enterprises financed under the
project were existing businesses which invested in modernization/expansion (80 percent of
subloans) while the remainder comprised new ventures (20 percent). Size-wise, they were in
the upper range of the target group -- SMIEs with operating assets below US$500,000 (excl.
land and inventories) and full-time employment between 20-150. While the size definition
was ambiguous due to the difficulty in valuing land and inventories, indications are that
many firms were close to, or surpassed the agreed limit. One-fifth of the firms had total
assets exceeding Rp.2 billion (about US$1 million in 1991) and total assets of almost two
third of the firms exceeded Rp.l billion (US$510.000).  In terms of emplovment (pre-



6
project), the firms appear to have been more closely in line with agreed size limits -- 70
percent of a sample of firms had less than 100 employees and only 12 percent exceeded the
size limit of 150.
15.   Similarly, subprojects financed have been considerably larger than envisaged at
appraisal. Based on subproject appraisal information, the average total subproject cost has
been Rp. 1 .1-1.2 billion (US$580-620,000) or more than double the original appraisal
estimate of US$256,000. These higher costs were supported by combined Bank-PB subloans
which, on average, were twice the expected size -- about US$361,000 against US$179,000
estimated at appraisal, and by a higher share of sponsor equity financing than foreseen.
While Bank-financed subloan contributions increased on average from  an expected
US$143,000 to an actual US$241,000, the PB contribution more than tripled from
US$36,000 to US$119,000 on average. This raised the PB share of subloans from the
expected 20 percent to 33 percent. It has been reported that PBs have extended additional
working capital loans to firms during subproject implementatio.i, to compensate for
shortfalls in expected sponsor equity and for cost overruns. Since no systematic subproject
implementation monitoring has taken place, the extent of this practice is not clear. Financing
of cost overruns by additional borrowing, however, would have adversely affected subproject
results.
16.   Sectoral and regional impact. Food processing and agro-based activities, including
food related services (e.g., cold storage), have absorbed the largest sectoral share of Bank
funds (24 percent), followed by garments, textiles and shoes (20 percent), woodworking (13
percent), plastic and rubber products (10 percent), metal and electrical products (9 percent),
printing and paper (6 percent), and various others (18 percent) (Table 15). In some cases the
Bank team has allowed financing of activities somewhat beyond the agreed sector eligibility
criteria, in agriculture (23 subloans in livestock, fisheries and shrimp farming), quarrying and
mining (8 subloans). The regional distribution of Bank loan utilization was concentrated on
Java (76 percent of Bank funds), with West Java and Jakarta alone absorbing 40 percent
(Table 16). Sumatra accounted for 13 percent (North Sumatra, 10%), followed by Sulawesi
(5%), Kalimantan (2 percent), and other regions (4 percent). Two eastern provinces --
Bengkulu and Irian Jaya -- have not received any project funding.
17.   Economic impact.  The credit component had been expected to finance 700
subprojects involving a total investment of US$179 million, which was expected to generate
some 66,000 jobs and more than US$270 million value added. Since no systematic impact
analysis of subproject results has been undertaken it is not clear to what extent these
objectives have been realized. However, information from subproject appraisal documents
indicates that fewer and more capital-intensive investments have been supported than
foreseen. In total, only 392 subprojects have been financed with total investment estimated
in the order of Rp.445 billion (US$228 million in 1991 prices), or 27 percent above appraisal
estimate. At their appraisal these subprojects were expected to generate 20-21,000 jobs, well
below the original estimate. As a result, the cost per job realized was about four times the
expectation -- Rp.20-22 million (US$10-11,000) compared to an estimated US$2,700 at
appraisal.
18.   The project's impact on output and value added is more difficult to estimate as
subproject analysis in many cases appears to have been faulty in assessing the incremental
results of subproject investments. Since most projects were expansion projects (80%), the



7
reported expected results therefore may have been on the optimistic side.  Based on
subproject appraisal reports, combined sales of about Rp.950 billion (US$485 million) would
be realized as a result of subproject investments with estimated profits of about Rp.65 billion
(7 percent on sales). Most subprojects were directed at the domestic market, with 22 percent
planned for export sales (mostly woodworking, garments and footwear).  Besides the
optimistic bias in subproject analysis, the unsatisfactory collection performance on subloans
and impressions from selected site-visits would indicate that actual subproject results
achieved are below subproject appraisal expectations, and most likely have fallen short of
the impact on value added as foreseen at project appraisal.
Provision of Quality Technical Assistance to SMIEs
19.   Firm-level technical assistance. The project supported a cost-sharing program to
promote firm-level TA by qualified domestic service providers (SPs). The role of the newly-
established TAU was to prequalify SPs in relevant technical areas, assist SMIEs prepare
terms of reference and identify suitable SPs, provide quality control over the work carried
out, and administer the cost-sharing arrangements. Priority was given to funding TA
activities supporting SMIE lending, i.e., preparation of business plans and investment
feasibility studies, in view of establishing a link with the project's credit component and of
perceived priority TA needs by SMIEs. Cost-sharing would be up to 60 percent of contract
costs, with a maximum participation of US$10,000 equivalent. To the extent the feasibility
studies undertaken would lead to bank financing of investment projects, the beneficiary
SMIE would repay the contract costs shared by the program into a revolving fund which
would help sustain future operations. In consultation with Government, the Indonesian
Banking Development Institute (LPPI) had been designated as the host institution for the
TAU. To promote TAU activities in the regions, special representatives were appointed in
the regional offices of BI. Funding for TAU establishment and operations was made
available by grant and loan financing from the Dutch government (US$6.1 million). A
Japanese Grant Facility (JGF) financed the TAU portion of cost-shared contracts (US$1.6
million).
20.   The TAU was established in August 1989 and closely followed the structure outlined
at appraisal, involving a local LPPI project director, assisted by an expatriate team leader and
both local and expatriate experts (marketing, industrial, finance, legal and MIS). Expatriate
staffing took until end 1989 to complete, and was adversely affected in 1990 by turnover of
two experts.  Promotional activities were delayed as the regional representatives were
appointed only in May 1990. Continuation of TAU activities became very difficult after
March 1992, when the expatriate experts were withdrawn following the general cancellation
of Dutch aid to Indonesia. Activities were continued with a reduced local staff and increased
funding from BI and JGF. In the latter years the firm-level TA activities wound down and
focus shifted to non-feasibility study assignments and completion of training and topical
studies. Because of these developments, both local and expatriate staffing inputs have
remained below appraisal estimates (table 5). TAU activities were completed in September
1994.
21.   Quantitative achievements of TAU's cost-sharing program have been considerable,
but fell short of appraisal expectations. A total of 378 cost-shared assignments have been
contracted and completed, of which the bulk (304, or 80 percent) were for investment
feasibility studies and only a small part for other firm-level TA (mostly for accounting



8
systems). This compares to an appraisal target of 686 total completed assignments (of which
526 feasibility studies) (Table 5). These assignments were undertaken by 71 SPs (out of
total 140 prequalified firms), although six SPs undertook more than 50 percent of all
assignments. Out of the completed feasibility study assignments just 61 (20 percent) have
led to bank financing of proposed investments of which only 28 involved financing from the
Bank loan and the rest from other Bank sources. The later start of the cost-sharing program
compared to the project's credit component as well as long time taken to complete
assignments (5-6 months on average) were contributing factors.  Additional quality
weaknesses of SP work emerged, particularly in areas of technical and marketing aspects,
costing, financial forecasting, and risk analysis. The make-up of the SPs with relatively
young, inexperienced staff and few engineers affected quality adversely. Only 10-15 percent
of SPs were estimated to deliver acceptable work. TAU quality control therefore became
very important, but contributed to delays. Also, the revolving fund which had been foreseen
at appraisal did not materialize in view of the few studies which led to financing, and the
firms' reluctance to repay the TAU matching grant contribution in case studies led to bank
financing of investments. The program therefore was not financially sustainable.
22.   A number of weaknesses in project design have contributed to the limited success in
this area. First, an important flaw was to treat the domestic SPs both as project beneficiaries
so as to improve the quality of their services, and as channels of high-quality TA to SMIEs
for which in most cases they did not yet have the capacity. Second, the component was
treated as an add-on to the credit component which led to an emphasis on feasibility study
assignments, largely ignoring other important market areas for SMIE consulting work (e.g.,
short-term productivity assistance to firms). The institutional setting of the TAU -- located in
LPPI and using Bl's regional representatives -- increased the perception of a credit-driven
initiative. Third, the capacity of the TAU to undertake indepth quality control of consultant
work was limited in view of the few experienced TAU experts and the high number of cost-
sharing contracts involved.
23.    Training. The training objectives of the project were relatively limited as it would
focus on selected areas of operational relevance to the project not covered by other training
programs (e.g., LPPI, INKINDO). The program was administered by the TAU and had a
relatively broad audience, covering SMIE entrepreneurs, staff of SP firms, and PB staff. A
total of 88 training courses have been conducted by TAU staff, domestic consultants, and
industry associations ([NKLNDO), and involving about 2,800 participants for a total of
almost 11,000 participant days.  This exceeded the appraisal expectation of 1,000
participants considerably. Of these, 23 courses were held specifically for SMIEs, 8 for PBs,
I I for domestic consultant firms, and 46 more general courses (e.g., business diagnostics) for
a combination of the three target groups. Most courses were of short duration (3-5 days) and
for SMIEs focused on marketing and financial management, and issues of personnel
management. Although the training component has exceeded expectations in quantitative
terms, its impact was limited (as foreseen) in view of the short duration courses and the
general nature of some of the topics.
24.    Topical studies. TAU organized the preparation of ten special topical studies on
subjects related to the development of SMIEs, which exceeded the planned number of
studies (8). The studies covered a range of SMIE-related topics, including subsector
reviews, marketing information, women's involvement in SMIEs, water pollution by SMIEs,
and subloan collection performance (table 7). They were carried out by local consultant



9
firms, supported in some cases by expatriate TAU experts, at an average cost of Rp.43
million (US$22,000). The completed studies have been disseminated among relevant
institutions, Government agencies, and SMIEs, with follow-up seminars in some cases. The
quality of studies has varied and their impact appears to have been limited. The Bank has
not used the studies to develop a broader dialogue on SME development issues in Indonesia
Strengthening of Domestic Consulting Industry
25.   As part of the TA component, the project aimed to strengthen the domestic
consulting industry by: (i) promoting effective links between domestic service providers
(SPs) and SMIEs through the cost-sharing TA program; (ii) undertaking quality control on
SP services by pre-qualification of SP firms eligible for cost-sharing contracts, and by review
of cost-shared outputs by TAU experts; (iii) training for SPs as part of the broader TAU
training program; and (iv) execution of the topical studies by domestic SPs.
26.   Overall, the project appears to have had only limited impact in this area. First, few
firms participated heavily in the cost-sharing program, with only six firms undertaking more
than half of all assignments. Second, the quality of work undertaken appears to have been
relatively low as indicated by the small share of subproject feasibility studies prepared by the
SPs which have led to actual bank financing. A sample review of completed studies showed
important weaknesses in areas of marketing, technical analysis of projects. financial
forecasting and risk analysis. While some of these areas have been subject of the SP training
programs (TAU undertook eleven training courses for SPs which involved a total of 253
participants), these have been of relatively short duration and more concerted skill training
would be necessary for durable improvements. Third, there has been limited interest by
SMIEs and banks in follow-on assignments particularly without cost-sharing. As such, the
program has not developed a credible link between SMIEs and service providers as had been
aimed for. Also, project design has not sufficiently focused on broader institutional
strengthening of the consulting industry as could have been achieved by involving the
industry associations (e.g., INKINDO) as direct project beneficiaries.
Financial Objectives
27.   Project cost and financing. Overall, actual project costs are estimated to have
exceeded appraisal estimates by a considerable margin on account of higher than expected
costs of SMIE subprojects financed. together with higher local financing contributions by the
PBs and SMIEs concerned (Tables 8A and 8B). Total costs of subprojects is now estimated
at US$228 million (of which US$94.3 million financed by the Bank loan) compared with the
appraisal estimate of US$179 million (US$100 million). Estimated actual costs of the TA
component, on the other hand, are considerably lower than appraisal estimates (US$7.0
million against US$13.6 million). This is partly due to the early cancellation of Dutch TAU
financing in April 1992 which led to the early withdrawal of Dutch experts, and partly to the
lower than expected repayments of TA matching grant contributions by SMIEs to the TA
revolving fund for cost-sharing contracts.  The shortfall in Dutch funding was partly
absorbed by the Japanese Grant Fund and by BI for local TA cost financing.
28.   Bank loan disbursement. The Bank loan became effective on September 29, 1989,
after a short delay in furnislhing the legal opinion documents. Bank loan disbursement was
well ahead of appraisal estimates in the early years, as a result of the much higher than



10
foreseen subloan commitment levels in FY91 (Table 4). Disbursement slowed down after
FY92 when 83% of the Bank loan had been disbursed. In a number of cases, the Bank team
allowed on exception basis Bank loan disbursements for subproject expenditures made more
than the agreed 90 days prior to the time of Bank's receipt of subproject documentation.
Relatively minor loan reallocations among PBs took place in the later years in line with their
relative subloan commitment capacities.  US$5.6 million was canceled on account of
inability of a few PBs to commit remaining loan balances, cancellations of a number of
subloans, and of BAPINDO's non-compliance with financial covenants. The Bank loan was
closed on June 30, 1995, as originally foreseen.
29.   Audits and SOE procedures. Audit and reporting arrangements generally have been
complied with, with delays in submitting reports in some cases. All Bank loan disbursement
has been against SOEs.  Given the multiple and dispersed nature of the participating
institutions it has been difficult for Bank missions to undertake systematic spot-checks of
SOE documentation.
Other Objectives
30.   Environmental impact. During project preparation concerns had been raised in the
Bank about the treatment of environmental impact of various Bank-supported industrial
projects (IRP, SMIEP). For the project, all subprojects above free-linit (US$294,000) would
be subject to environmental impact assessments and subloan agreements would stipulate
compliance of subproject designs with sound standards. Ex-post monitoring was envisaged
by TAU engineering staff. In practice, the large number of subprojects made it difficult to
follow compliance with these stipulations. Subloan appraisal documents had only cursory
references to environmental impact abatement, and on-site inspections have not been
systematic. One of the topical studies prepared under the project dealt more generically with
water pollution caused by SMIEs in Indonesia.
31.   Women entrepreneurs. Strengthening of women has not been a specific objective of
the project. It was envisaged that women's involvement in subprojects under the credit line
would be monitored. This has not been dune systematically. One of the topical studies
analyzed the role of women entrepreneurs and managers in Indonesian SMIEs but there has
been no follow-up.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
32.   The changes in banking regulations introduced from October 1988 until early 1990
have led to a drastic extension of the banking sector and a rapid expansion of bank liquidity.
In 1990, both total domestic credit and total bank deposits (demand, time, and savings) rose
by more than 50 percent. This helped accelerate subloan commitments, partly by refinancing
of earlier SMIE financing by the PBs. The KUK regulationis announced in January 1990 did
away withi most of Bl's earlier subsidized small business liquidity credit programs, and
required all domestic commercial banks to raise lending to small business from own funds
to 20 percent of their total credit portfolios. Since the target group of the KUK program --
small businesses with assets up to Rp600 million excluding land and buildings -- reached
into the SMIE size, the program may have provided additional stimulus to the banks using
the project credit line. On the whole, however, KUK lending went largely for working



I]
capital financing of small trade and service establishments rather than investment lending of
small manufacturing firms.  Since KUK absorbed considerable bank liquidity after its
introduction, it may have increased the dependence on the SMIEP credit facility for term
lending in some PBs.
33.   Government's tighteniing of domestic liquidity in May 1990 also had considerable
impact on the project outcome as described above. The impact on the project has been two-
fold: it helped accelerate subloan commitment as the credit line became a particularly
attractive funding source for the banks given the lag in the Bank's onlending rate adjustment,
and as PBs dependence on Bank funds increases in view of tightened liquidity, while the
steep interest rate increases have contributed to the unsatisfactory repayment performance of
the credit component by causing cash flow problems for the less resilient SMIE borrowers.
34.   The termination of Dutch aid to Indonesia in April 1992 and related cancellation of
TA funding caused considerable uncertainty about the continuation o' TAU activities. Only
later in 1992 did BI decide to take over local funding of the TAU and regional
representatives, but with expatriate staff reduced from four to one and local staff trimmed
down considerably.  BI sustained TAU  activities until September 1993, when the
Government and the Bank agreed on a continuation of TAU until August 1994, but with a
reduced work program financed from remaining Japanese Grant Funds. These developments
contributed to the shortfall in meeting TA targets, and to lower TA project costs than
foreseen at appraisal.
35.   Initial delays with the procurenment and mobilization of TA personnel financed by
Dutch assistance and subsequent expatriate staff turnover had an adverse impact on TAU
start-up and operation. While the TAU had been established in August 1989 and the Bank
loan became effective in September 1989, the expatriate TAtJ expert team was complete in
January 1990. Also, the regional TAU representatives involved in promotion were in place
only in May 1990. Since much of the cost-shared TA activities had been envisaged to
support SMIE preparation of feasibility studies for investmenit credit proposals, the
combination of delays in TA start-up and higher thani expected early subloan commitment
levels exacerbated the disconnect between 'ie two project components. Finally, there were
delays of almost a year in initiating training of the participating regional banks which
affected the quality of their credit appraisals and subloan commitment levels.
D. Project Sustainability
36.   The sustainability of the project's achievements differ by type of project objective.
With regard to developing unsubsidized term lending to SMIEs for productive investment,
project sustainability would depend on: (i) continued availability of longer term sources of
commercial bank funds for use in investment lending; (ii) integration of SMIE credit as a
viable business segment into the banks' portfolio strategy; and (iii) sufficient capacity of the
banks to undertake sound SMIE credit appraisal and supervision. Project results have only
been partial in this area. It has not led to a sustainable funding source of term finance for
SME lending. Over time, continued banking deregulation and development of Indonesia's
capital market will help increase banks' access to longer term funding sources for investment
lending (e.g., through longer term deposits of individuals and institutional investors, issuing
of bonds, etc.). Concerning (ii) above, the project appears to have helped establish the SMIE



12
credit business as profitable segment in some of the participating private banks. Most of the
state and regional banks, however, have not sufficiently strengthened their credit appraisal
procedures as witnessed by the poor subloan collection performance and the continued
reliance on collateral-based lending. The project's interventions through training and the
appraisal advisor have been too limited in this regard. Except for a few banks, therefore,
sustainability of project results in SMIE term lending is unlikely.
37.    With regard to SMIE development, project sustainability is untcertain.  While
feedback on subproject impact is incomplete and poor loan collection indicates mixed
results, the financing of 392 SMIE subprojects has led to considerable economic results in
terms of output and job creation (although less than expected).  The impact of cost-shared
TA activities and training on SMIEs has been limited and sustainability is unlikely as a result
of their narrow focus on feasibility studies which only led to relatively few bankable
projects. Also, the limited scope and dissemination/discussion of the topical studies prepared
under the project has not much contributed to a broader understandir.6, of SMIE issues and
constraints and to related policy interventions.  Finally with regard to development of
Indonesian service providers, sustainability of project results is ulllikely. While the cost-
sharing contracts have developed links between service providers and SMIEs, these have not
led to longer-term relationslhips due to limited acceptance of the services by the firms and the
banks. In most cases, the clients perceived the quality of studies/services to be insufficienit.
SP training was insufficient to overcome these quality problems. Given these outcomes,
overall project sustainability is considered unlikely.
E. Bank Performance
38.    Preparation & appraisal.  Project preparation took about two years until Board
approval, and involved five Bank missions. Emphasis was placed on improving upon the
earlier Small Enterprise Development Projects (SEDPs) and Bl's ongoing liquidity credit
schemes for SMEs (KI/KMK), by phasing out the subsidized nature of credit extension and
related credit insurance and by better TA delivery at the firm level. The project was one of
the Bank's building blocks in the late 1980, in extending credit to the enterprise sector to
promote a supply response to economic deregulation, and was processed in parallel with the
Industrial Restructuring Project (IRP) which focused on larger firms. Much attention was
given to thorough definition of eligibility criteria, mechanisms for onlending and cost
recovery of fi.nds, institutional arrangements for TA, and the scope of participating banks --
private and regional banks were introduced for the first time. With hindsight, however, the
Bank's project preparation was deficient and would have gained from: (i) a more thorough
review of the status and constraints of the target group of SMIEs, including of SMIE
financing and TA needs; (ii) a solid understanding of the quality of credit procedures in the
participating banks and their orientation towards the SMIE sector; and (iii) a better
understanding of the ability of domestic consulting firms to provide quality services to
SMIEs. These have contributed to flaws in project design, which turned out to be too
complex in terms of multiple objectives and implementing agencies. The main project risks
identified at appraisal -- related to possible demand shortfalls for credit and TA -- did not
materialize, while possible deficiencies in banks' lending practices and in capacity of
domestic consultants were not raised. These factors, however, have contributed largely to
shortfalls in realizing project objectives.



13
39.   Supervision. In the first years of project implementation, follow-up by both the Bank
and Netherlands Government (for TA) have been quite close. The Appraisal Advisor served
as an additional Bank supervision channel for subproject screening and follow-up.
Supervision intensity and missions were reduced after 1991 when most credit funds had been
committed, and Dutch involvement stopped in early 1992 when its financing was
discontinued. Project supervision has been deficient in a number of areas. First, the prime
concern in the first years was to raise the level of subloan commitments and to realize
quantitative targets of the TA program. Insufficient attention was given to the quality of
subloans and of the cost-shared services by the prequalified service providers. The Bank
team was fairly lenient in giving exceptions to subloan eligibility criteria to help accelerate
credit commitments. The appraisal advisor's involvemenit was insufficient in addressing
systemic credit approval problems in view of the large number of subloans and participating
banks. Second, follow-up of impact at the level of bcneficiary enterprises and service
providers was rather ad hoc; project design did not include a comprehensive subproject
impact monitoring system.  Third, deteriorating subloan collect:,n performance was
identified relatively late (1993) partly as a result of initial data collection problems. Since
most loan funds had been committed at that point, enforcement of Bank loan covenants
against banks in non-compliance (those for which loan collection ratios fell below 80
percent) could not be effective. In case of two PBs the Bank canceled (BAPINDO) or
reallocated (UPPINDO) outstanding loan balances in view of non-compliance.  Fourth,
despite emerging weaknesses in credit and TA components the Bank did not adjust project
design. A mid-term project review was not undertaken, but would have been too late for
important adjustments given the early commitment of Bank funds. Filally, Bank supervision
across the several parallel financial sector operations (SMIEP. IRP, BRI/Kupedes, FSDP,
AFP) remained relatively compartmentalized with insufficient sharing of experiences across
projects. Supervision would have benefited from a more integrated approach.
F. Borrower Performance
40.   The role of Ministry of Finance (MOF) and BI have largely been satisfactory in
helping to get the project under way quickly. During preparation Government insisted on
including a number of participating banks, some of which (e.g., BAPINDO) did not perform
satisfactorily  during  implementation.  Government's  policy  interventions  during
implementation had a mixed impact on project performance, with generally positive results
from its continued banking deregulation which created a more open, competitive banking
environment, phased out most subsidized credit programs, while affecting borrower
performance adversely following introduction of the "tight money" policy in 1990. Dialogue
with Government on these sector policies remained very limited at the project level. At BI
there were some initial delays in establishing regional counterpart teams in its RPMUs and it
focused too late on deteriorating collection performance of PBs in part because of faulty data
collection systems. BI was forthcoming, on the other hand, in extending increased local
funding to keep the TAU and RPMUs operational after Dutch financing was stopped in
March 1992.
41.   TAU's overall performance is considered satisfactory.  It managed to get the
relatively complex TA arrangements off the ground, although with some delays, and to
deliver largely on its quantitative targets. Its host institution LPPI could have played a more
active role in positioning the TAU for continued operations beyond the project. With regard



14
to the consultants, the Dutch-financed experts were delayed in start-up and contributed to TA
implementation difficulties because of unexpected staff turnover. The appraisal advisor's
involvement, in turn, has been too limited in strengthening PB appraisal practices and
monitoring subproject performance. The service providers exhibited weaknesses in the
quality of their cost-shared contract work, which affected acceptance of their work by the
firms and PBs. Finally, performance of the PBs has been mixed as elaborated above, with
private banks on the whole performing better than state and regional banks.  Overall,
performance of implementing agencies during project implementation is rated as deficient.
42.    With regard to the legal covenants, compliance was deficient. While reporting and
auditing agreements were generally adhered to, problems developed with the PBs
maintaining the agreed minimum collection ratio, while BAPINDO was not in compliance
with financial covenants and agreed actions for institutional strengthening. The combination
of quick commitment of most credit funds and delays in assessing the PBs' collection
performance, made the covenant ineffective in taking actions agaist delinquent banks.
BAPINDO's non-compliance and poor overall performance led to cancellation of its
remaining loan balance in 1994. The Bank team in turn, witlh a view to expediting Bank loan
commitments, has allowed some exceptions to agreed subloan eligibility criteria,
contributing to larger average subloan amounts and subproject costs thani had been foreseen.
During implementation a few amendments were made to the legal agreements to: (i) reduce
the minimum subloan amounts from US$56,000 to US$28,000 equivalent to allow greater
synergy with KUK regulations introduced in 1990: (ii) increase free limit thresholds from
US$294,000 to US$420,000 equivalent for five PBs judged to prepare satisfactory subproject
appraisals; and (iii) reallocation of Bank loan allocations by PBs in line with their use of
funds. On balance compliance with Bank loan covenanits was deficient.
G. Assessment of Outcome
43.   Overall, project results are considered unsatisfactor'v. In a narrow sense, qLiantitative
targets of SMIE credit commitments and of realizing TA output indicators have largely been
met. However, the quality of project output has been mixed and sustainability of results is
unlikely. First, with regard to developing unsubsidized term lending to SMIEs it appears
that the credit component has contributed to a lesser extent than foreseen to opening credit
facilities to new SMIE bank clientele. The attractive features of the credit line (long
maturity and lagging cost of funds) appear to have led to considerable refinancing of earlier
PB clientele during the period of rising interest rates (1990-91). For some of the private
banks with shorter funding maturities than the state banks, the project has had a positive
impact on developing an SMIE business segment.   Second, the impact on SMIE
development has been partial as the number of SMIE beneficiaries has been smaller than
planned, subprojects and beneficiary enterprises have been considerably larger and more
capital-intensive than foreseen, limited feedback on subproject performance indicates lower
value added and employment than foreseen, poor subloan collection performance in many
banks indicates viability problems of a considerable share of subprojects, and the quality of
TA provided under cost-shared contracts may be considered relatively low, with too narrow
a focus on feasibility studies. Third, the project's impact on PBs' institutional development
and credit procedures has been limited due to the narrow scope of the banks' training
component and of the appraisal advisor's interventions, which was exacerbated by the large
number of participating banks with varied backgrounds and needs. Fourth, with regard to



15
improving the quality of Indonesian service providers the project has contributed to
developing their ties with SMIEs. Continued interest by both firms and banks in further
services has been limited, however, while services of'fered did not sufficiently address
productivity improvements at the firm-level.  Overall, the project has insufficiently
contributed to developing a more thorough analytical and policy framework for SMIE
development in Indonesia, and has largely remained a "one-off' intervention with limited
sustainable results.
H. Future Operation
44.    Only to a limited degree had continued operation of the project been foreseen. With
regard to the SMIE credit component, there was an expectation about sustained
improvements in the capacity of banks to service the SMIE credit segment. Continuation of
SMIE funding along the lines of the project (including applicati.n of similar subloan
eligibility criteria) had been foreseen only with regard to "rollover funds", i.e., funds
generated by repayments of Bank-financed subloans, which was expected to be relent by the
PBs to similar investments. The project's TA component (cost-sharing firm-level TA,
training, topical studies) was intended for the duration of the project only, and has been
discontinued. In view of this situation, no plan for future project operations has been
developed.
I. Key Lessons Learned
45.    As mentioned, the project has been too ambitious in terms of its multiple objectives
and institutions involved. The projects focus on three beneficiary target groups -- SMIEs,
participating banks, and service providers -- has made the project too complex and
operationally incoherent. This has been exacerbated by mixing the role of the SPs as
intended project beneficiaries with their role as high-quality channels of TA for SMIE
development. As the institutional capacity of most domestic SPs was considered weak at the
outset this arrangement was not appropriat-. The overall lesson is to keep project design
simple and focused, avoiding multiple target groups and assistance delivery channels.
Following lessons can be drawn for similar credit and TA projects:
(i)    Be very selective in the choice of participating financial intermediaries based on
strong institutional capacities in delivering credit and related services to designated
beneficiary firms, and on a clear understanding of their funding strategy and constraints for
delivering term finance to the beneficiary firms;
(ii)    Choose eligibility criteria for project beneficiaries which are administratively simple,
and avoid criteria based on financial asset data which may be ambiguous in case of small
firms;
(iii)   Choose formula for determining onlending rates in domestic currency, of Bank funds
to financial intermediaries which are based on current market rates of alternative banks'
funding sources;



16
(iv)    In selection of loan collection ratio covenants for continued participation of financial
intermediaries, ensure that the mechanism for ratio calculation is in place at project start-up
and that results can be determined sufficiently quickly to allow credible remedial action
against intermediaries in non-compliance;
(v)    Carry out detailed prior analysis of TA needs of beneficiary firms, assessing the
demand for different types of services (e.g., feasibility studies, financial systems, shopfloor
productivity assistance) and willingness to pay for such services;
(vi)    Build into project design a system  for comprehensive periodic monitoring of
subproject implementation results and TA impact; and
(vii)  In Bank supervision, combine and integrate as much as possible the supervision of
Bank projects with similar participating institutions and beneficiaries.



17
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN 3041-IND)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Table 14: Credit Allocation and Utilization by Bank
Table 15: Subsector Distribution of Subloans
Table 16: Regional Distribution of Subloans
Table 17: Loan Collection Rates by Participating Banks



18
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies                    Li                                                   F- 
Financial Objectives                                                 D                  D3  L
Institutional Development             I                                                 IZI
Physical Objectives                 Li                                Li                Li
Poverty Reduction                   L                Li               Li
Gender Issues                        nii E                                              I
Other Social Objectives              n                               F                  E
Environmental Objectives            n               E3                                  Li
Public Sector Management                              i              L I
Private Sector Development          0  l
Other (specify)                     L               LI               LE
B. Proiect Sustainability               Likely                 Unlikely                  Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                     fly
satisfacto            Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                      (/)                       (1)
Identification
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                           L                        LI
Supervision                          L                       iii



19
Highly
D.  Borrower Perfonnance                         satisfactory    Satisfactorv      Deficient
(8/)            (1)              (F1)
Preparation
Implementation                                                  IZI
Covenant Compliance                                             Ii
Operation (if applicable)                                                                   E
HighWl                                               Hig-hl
E. Assessment of Outcome                satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
(/) ~    ~ (E ()                               l



20
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title            Purpose                Year of         Status
approval
Preceding operations:
1. Third Small      Fixed investment and working       FY84         Completed
Enterprise          capital financing of small enterprise
Development Project  projects in nearly all economic
(Loan 2430-IND)     sectors.
2. First and Second   Increase productive capacity in  FY86 & 89    Completed
Export Development  export-oriented manufacturing
Projects (Loans 2702-  sector through lines of credit and
[ND & 2979-IND)    TA.
3. First and Second    Strengthen Unit Desa system to  FY87 & 91    Completed
BRI/Kupedes Small   mobilize rural savings and provide
Credit Projects     nonsubsidized credit to small
(Loans 2800-lND &    borrowers
3249-[ND
Parallel operation:
1. Industrial       Assist industrial firms in three   FY89          Largely
Restructuring Project  subsectors (textiles, engineering,           completed
(Loan 3040-IND)     pulp and paper) with TA and credit
to formn into efficient competitors
Following operations:
1. Agricultural     Support development of small and   FY93           Under
Financing Project   medium-sized agricultural firms by            implementation
(Loan 3402-IND)     strengthening commercial banks in
termn lending to them, improve
availability term finance, and
finance viable investment projects
2. Financial Sector    Enhance efficiency of resource   FY92          Under
Development Project  allocation in banking sector by              implementation
(Loan 3526-IND)     strengthening prudential banking
regulations and bank supervision,
and corporatization and financial
strengthening of 5 state commercial
banks



21
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Plained         Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)    09/08/87            09/08/87
Preparation 1                                 10/01/87            10/18/87
Preparation 2                                 02'/01/88           02/07/88
Preappraisal                                  07/01/88            06/21/88
Appraisal                                     10/01/88            11/15/88
Negotiations                                  02/17/89            03/13/89
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)   N.A.                 N.A.
Board Presentation                           04/30/89             04/25/89
Signing                                      06/01/89             06/01/89
Effectiveness                                08/31/89             09/29/89
First Tranche Release (if applicable)          N.A.                 N.A.
Midtern review (if applicable)                 N.A.                 N.A.
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if         N.A.                 N.A.
applicable)
Project Completion                           12/31/94             12/31/94
Loan Closing                                 06/30/95             06/30/95
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95
Appraisal Estimate             5.7   27.4  53.6  81.7  95.0  100.0
Actual                         5.9   55.4  83.3  88.2  91.7   94.3
Actual as % of Estimate        103%  202%  155%  108%  96%    94%
Date of Final Disbursement     June 1, 1995



22
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key Implementation Indicator in SARJ
President's Report                              Estimated          Actual
Credit Component
1. No. participating banks                            13                13
2. No. subloans                                       700              392
3. Average subloan:                               US$180,000       US$360,000
- World Bank                                   US$144,000       US$241,000
- Participating bank                            US$36,000       US$1 19,000
Technical Assistance Component
1. Local TA (person-months)                           708              517
2. Foreign TA (person-months)                         132               82
3. Service providers:
- prequalified (no.)                               n.a.             140
- contracted (no.)                                 n.a.              71
4. Subproject investment plans prepared (no.)         526              304
5. Subproject investment plans financed (no.)         368              61
6. Other direct TA activities (no.)                   160               74
7. Training participants (no.)                       1,000            2,792
8. Topical studies (no.)                               8                10
I. Modified Indicators (if applicable)               n.a.             n.a.
III. Other Indicators (if applicable)                 n.a.             n.a.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                     Actual
I.  Key Operating Indicators            N.A.                        N.A.
in SAR/President's
Report
II. Modified Indicators (if            N.A.                         N.A.
Applicable)
III. Modified Indicators for            N.A.                        N.A.
Future Operation (if
applicable)



23
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study         at Appraisal/Redefined       Status         Impact of Study
1. Marketing        Provide the business    Completed          Disseminated
Information Sources   commnunity with                           among interested
information on                             agencies (SMIEs,
marketing sources                          Kadin, Inkindo,
PFIs, BI)
2. Engineering       Information on proper    Completed         Idem (SMIEs, MOI,
Service Sector       engineering practices for                  Kadin, Inkindo,
engineering firms                          PFIs, BI)
3. Foster Father     Review of state        Completed           Idem (MOI, Kadin,
Program              enterprises' foster father                 PFIs, BI)
program
4. Women            Information on women's  Completed           Idem (Min. Women
entrepreneurs and   involvement in the                          Affairs, IWAPI,
managers in SMIEs    Indonesian small                           Kadin, PFIs, BI)
business sector
5. Water pollution by  Information on pollution  Completed      Idem (Min.
SMIEs               caused by SMIEs                             Environment, MOI,
Kadin, PFIs, BI)
6. Woodworking      Assess the potential of    Completed        Idem (MOI, Kadin,
subsector study     Indonesian                                  PFIs, BI)
woodworking industry
7. SMIE Project loan  Review SMIEP subloan   Completed          Idem (BI, MOF,
collection           collection performance                     PFIs)
performnance
8. Market potential    Review market potential  Completed       Idem (SMIEs,
for selected agro-   of selected agro-products                  service providers,
products (shrimp,                                               Kadin, PFIs, BI)
poultry, cattle
fattening, coconut oil,
chopsticks)
9. SMIE technical    Review TA needs of     Completed           Idem (BAPPENAS,
assistance needs     SMIEs                                      Min. Cooperatives,
Kadin, PFIs. BI)
10. Potential and   Review the potential and  Completed        Idem (SMIEs,
problems of selected   problems of selected                     service providers,
food processing and   food processing and                       Kadin, PFIs, BI)
furniture products   furniture products



24
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                  Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local         Foreign        Total           Local        Foreign           Total
Item                     Costs          Costs                         Costs         Costs
Investment Credit          79.0          100.0          179.0          133.7           94.3           228.0
Component
Technical Assistance
Component
TA Unit Costs              2.3            2.2            4.5            1.0             1.5             2.5
TAU Training               0.3            0.1            0.4            0.6            0.2              0.8
TAU Studies                0.1            0.1            0.2            0.2            0.1              0.3
SMIE Direct TA Cost        1.4            0.2            1.6            0.9            0.2              1.1
SMIE TA Participation      5.1             -             5.1            1.4             -               1.4
Appraisal Advisor          0.2            0.6            0.8            0.2             0.5             0.7
BI Regional Reps           1.0             -             1.0            0.2              -              0.2
Subtotal                 10.4           3.2           13.6           4.5             2.5             7.0
Total Base Cost          89.4          103.2          192.6          138.2           96.8            235.0
Price Contingencies        0.4            0.3            0.7
Total Project Cost      89.8          103.5          193.3          138.2           96.8            225.0



Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (USSIM)                  Actual/Latest Estimate(USSM)
Local         Foreign        TIotal         ILocal        Foreign            Total
Source                  Costs          Costs                          Costs         Costs
IBRD                         -            100.0          100.(             -             94.3             94.31
Japan Grant Facilitv        2.0            1.1            3.              1.9             1.3             3.2
Netherlands Granit&    t    3.7            2.4            6.1             0.5             1.2             1.7
Loan                                                                                                               l
Participating banks         25. 0           -             25.0           46.6                             46.6
BI                                          --                            0 7                             0.7
SMIE equity:
- Credit Comp.              54.0            -             54.1           87.1                             87.1
- TA Comp.                  5.1             -             5.1             1.4              -              1.4
Total                    89.8          103.5           193.3          138.2           96.8            235.0



26
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
For all projects, this table identifies the major costs and/or benefits that enter into the calculation
of a re-estimated net present value (or economic rate of return) or, where the net present value (or
economic rate of return) was not estimated, of cost-effectiveness in achieving project objectives.
A.    Credit Component
Economic rate of return or NPV was not calculated at appraisal due to the nature of the project.
Following economic indicators have been estimated for the credit component of the project:
Economic Indicator           Appraisal Estimate          Latst Estimate
1. Number of subprojects            700                       392
2. Total subproject            US$179 million           US$228 million
investment cost
3. Average subproject           US$256,000                US$580,000
investment cost
4. Employment creation             66,000                   21,000
(no.)
5. Cost per job created          US$2,710                 US$10,900
6. Incremental value added     US$270 rr.nllion    Appraisal estimate probably
not realized



27
B.    TA Component
A major objective of the TA component was to promote the development of the local
consulting industry by establishing a link between enterprises and qualified local consultants. The
following results have been realized:
Indicator                 Appraisal Estimate     Result
Service providers prequalified                  n.a.              140
Service providers contracted                     n.a               71
Feasibility studies undertaken by SPs:
- applications received                         n.a.              549
- contracts signed                              526               316
- reports completed                             526               304
- reports leading to bank funding               368                61
Other services undertaken by SPs:
- applications received                         n.a.               94
- contracts signed                               160               85
- assignments completed                          160               74



28
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement           Section       Covenant        Present       Original         Revised                 Description of Covenant                       Comments
IT PC        Status       Fulfillment     Fulfillment
Date            Date
Loan                  3.01(A)             13             C'                                        Borrower's commitment to Project
Objectives & Performance PBs
3.01(B)              3            C'                                         Signing subsidiary agreements between
Borrowker and B]. SCBs. RDB,. DFIs
3.0 1(C)             3            C                                          Signingoonlendinig agreements between  B]
and P('1s
5.01                3             C            S8'308 9        9'29/89       Conditions loan effectixeness
5.02                3             (            8'3i0 89        9'29 89      Legal opiniion a2reements
Pro ect
(i IBAPIND()          3. 01 B)                          C ('D                                      Annual audit accounts. X()Fs                    Submission audit report
delaw ed
3.t)3                2           NC'           3 01.'9(0                     Maintain collection raitio not less than 77 5   Re Remainiine loan balamce has
on its lending opcrations and loin ariears     been canceled on 2tul - 1
ratio inot to exceed 7 5%                       1994
_   __   3.)5           _PFrom  )989                                         No! horro'a il'delt >-ervicc ratio i%ould be
leh~s Ilmnl 1 25 tiiie
___>__~___ ______- ._-~ _                           _      1-_ _           __ ______                                  __ t.          __ 25 time
3.06                              N C        From  1989                      M taintailn inlerest Co. cr rt;  A1 not less thanl    Remainin2 loail balance has
15 times                                      beeln cancelcd on1 Juik 2
3                   aC -                      8 3I X 19                     Rciacining ilhe sc C  iL, ot' an hd ku on
hanking and financial seN iccs
3.08                                [)         3313  90                      Adopt a l I developieni stri e\ ad             C(orporate piLan recei\ed aiter
implementation l SatisnanictN ti  to 3alik     dClaLN
(2) (II'PIND()        (.0I(B)              1             C                           _ _ _    Arinual audit of accounts S()ts
3.03                2            N(          From 1989             -         Maintain collection ra o ot'Inot less thatln    Uncommitted funds havc
80% on IBRD credit lincs                       beeni reallocated to other P[Bs
3. 04                             C          From 1989             -Maintain debt/equitiv ratio not 2reater thani 7
to I
(3) Otther PBs        3.01(B)              I             C             n a.             n a        Allntal audit of accounts. SOFs
3.03                 2            CP         From  1989            -       I Maintain collection ratio of not less thani     OnIv BCA. Niaga and BUN
80% on IBRD credit liens                       are in compliance
(4) LPPl'1            3. (1 (B)            I             C             na. naa                     Annual atidit of accounts. SUls
Sched. 2(6)         5             C           10/(01/89            -         Retain Appraisal Advisor
Sched.2(7)          9             C                                -         Furnish semi-annual project implementation
I _________________    _____________   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __I  I  rep o rt



29
Covenanit types
1.     Accounts/audits                                         S.  = Indigenous people
2  =   Finaicial performianice/revenue generation from         9.  = Monitoring. review. and reporting
beneficiaries                                          10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3=   Flow and utilization of project funds                    I I   = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetarb or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                             allocation
5  =   Management aspects of the project or executinig        12.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                        regulator-v/institutional actio n
6. =  En ironmental covenants                                 13.  = Other
7.     Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status.
C  =   covenanit complied with
Cl) =   complied with after delay
CP     complied with partially
NC =  not complied xsith



30
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title      | Describe and comment on lack of compliance
N.A.                                     N.A.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of              Planned               Revised             Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks      US$       Weeks       US$     Weeks    US$
Preparation to          N.A.       N. A.     N.A.       N.A.     68.68   N.A.
Appraisal
Appraisal               N.A.       NA.       N.A.       N.A.      17.53   N A.
Negotiation through     N.A.       N.A.      N.A.       N.A.      13.03   N.A.
Board Approval
Supervision             N.A.      N.A.       N.A.       N.A.     97.65   N.A.
Completion              7.5        N.A.      N.A.       N.A.      0.30    N.A.
TOTAL                  N.A        N.A.      N.A.       N.A.    197.09   N.A.



31
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfomiance Rating
Number                Specialized     Implelimeln    Develop-
Stage of         Month/       of      Days in    Staff Skills       -tatioll      mnelt                      Types of Problems
Project Cycle        Year    Persons   Field        Represented       Status      (bjectives
A.. Throue-h
Appraisal
1.  Identification     03/87         1           9       -Dev                                                              N.A
Banking
2. Reconnaissance      05/87         4           14       -Dev.                                                             N.A
Baniking
-SMEs
3.  Preparation        02/88         3           14       -Deav                                                             N A
Bailkiil-g
4.  Preappraisal       0)6/88        3           21       -Dcv-                                                             N A
-Mgmt .
5. Appraisal           11/88         3           21      -Deva                                                              N.A
B. Appraisal through    None
Board Approval
C Board Approval
throuvh Eftectiveness
,. Start-up I          05/89         i           14      -Dev.                I                     -etfectiveness conditions
Bankinig                                  -consultant recruitment
19  -Dev.dlvlaiefetvns
2 Start-up 2           08/89         2            8       Banking                                     d.lay loan cicetiveness
-Mgmllt
D. Supervision
1. Supervision I       03/90         2 ()                -Dev                                         continued bank lending against collateral
Banking                                   - limhited interest PBs in 1 A feasibility studies
-Ngmt.                                    - delay training programs regional banks
2. Supervision 2       09/9(         2           14       -Dcv.               I             I       - preparationi TA feasibility studies lagging compared
-MBngt.                                   to credit componeint given high subloani comimlitmenit
-Mgmt.                         ~~~~~~~~~~levels
3. Supervision 3       04/91          3                   -[)v                                      - problem compilinig baniks collection ratios
-Bankit                                   -13APINDO not in complianice covenanit
-limited impact TA & appraisal advisor on subloan
appraisal
-need more locus on quality I A outputs
-sustainability and independence TAU
4. Supervisioni 4      05/93          i          17       -Dev.               I             I       - poor subloan collection performance
[lanking                                  - slovdown credit demand
-BAPINDO not in compliance covenant
-limited link credit-TA components
-continued fludling TAU in view cancellation
Nethcrlands hLinds
5. Supervisioni        04/94          I          14      -Dev                                       -poor subloaii collectioni perlrinaiice
Banking
. E.olinpletion        06/95         2                    -Dev.                                     -r.o subloan collection pcrfonnance
E. cI                                                  I                                                        LI collectio[pcrioniaiceBanking



32
Table 14: Credit Allocation and Utilization by Bank
(US$ '000)
Initial     Final       Canceled      Disbursements    %              No. of           %
Allocation   Allocation    from Final                                 Subloans
Allocation
State Commercial Banks
I. BRI                    20,000      20,000.0             0       19,999         21              92             23
2. BNI                     15,000     16.180.0             0        16,164        17              54              14
3. BDN                     13,500     13,770.0          171.9       13,588        14              62              16
4. BBD                     10,000     10,000.0        2,395.4       7,605          8              27              7
Total SCBs                 58,500     59,950.0        2,567.3      57,356         61              235            60
Private Commercial
Banks
5. BCA                     10,000     10,000.0             0        9,997         11              50              13
6. Bank Niaga               3,000      3,000.0             0        2.994          3               11             3
7. Bank Duta                2,500      1,411.5             0        1,411          I               5              I
8. BUN                      3,000      3,000.0           11.6       2.988          3               8              2
Total PCBs                 18,500     17,411.5           11.6       17,390        18              74              19
Regional Dev. Banks
9. RDB East Java            2,500      3,036.0          128.4       2,905          3               10             3
10. RDB Central Java        3,000      3,532.4         384.2        3,145         3               22              6
11. RDB North Sumnatera     2,500      3,550.0         141.8        3,408         4               10              3
Total RDBs                  8,000     10,118.4          654.4       9,458         10              42              11
Nat. Dev. Finance Insts.
12. BAPINDO                10,000     10,000.0        2,338.7       7,619          8              33              8
13. UPPINDO                 5,000      2,520.1             0        2,520          3               8              2
Total DFIs                 15,000     12,520.1        2,338.7       10,139        11              41              10
Grand Total               100,000    100,000.0        5,572.0       94,343        100             392            100



33
Table 15: Subsector Distribution of Subloans
Subsector                           No of Loans!  %        IBRD Subloan Amount         %
_____________________ ________                                (K US$)
Food Industries                          59          15            13.345              14
Agro-processing                          11          3              2,306               3
Animal husbandry                         4           1              1,384               1
Aquaculture, Fisheries                   19          5              3,600               4
Food related services                    9          2               2,092               a
Subtotal                                102      j 26              22,727              224
Wood-based industries                    51         13             12,250              13
Garment                                  44      !   1              10,369             11
Textiles                                 14          4              4,152               4
Batik                                    3           I                888               I
Shoes and leather                        11          3              3,336               4
Subtotal                          j      73         19             18,745              20
Plastic and rubber products             40       ,10                9,051              10
Printing and paper                      21           5              5,878               6
Metal & Electrical                       34          9              8,279               9
Construction materials                   15          4                                    _804
Chemical & Pharmaceuticals               16          4              3,557       -       4
Transport business                       13          3              3,019 ')3
. ~~___ 3_ I _
Toys and handicraft, jewelry             1 0     ,  3   1           2,631               3
Other production and services            9       [, 2.356                           I2X
Mining                                   8          2 _             2,040  _            2
Total                             |     391      i100              94,343            i0



34
T'able 16: Regional Distribution of Subloans
Region                           J       o  fIRD Loan Amount 
Subloaiis              .(K US$)___
,Java
West Java                                98                                26,547                 28
EastJava                                  64                      1 618,344                        9
Central Java                              82            1)15,711                                  1 7
Jakarta Area                              48                               I  1,028               1
~~ Subtota  .........               _292       *. 74                   71,6307
Sumatera
Southl Suniatera                          11            32.097
West Sumatera                    1        2493
East/Central Sumnatera                    3              1                    547
North Sur-natera                          35            9                   9,17)
Subtotal                                  52            13                 12,3(.'3               13
Kalimanitan
South Kalimantan                          5                                 1,483
West Kalimanttan                          1                                   128
East Kaliirnantan                                             1               338
Central Kalimnantan              I                                            288
Subtotal                                   9            2                   2,237                  2
Su-Iawes                               ---    --i._                       _
Southi Sulawvesi                 I         I        .                       2,410
East Sulawesi                              I                                   42
i Northi Suilawesi                -        6                                 1,414
Centra' Sulawesi                          4                                   658
Subtotal                                  22             6                  4,524                  5
Bali                    .-6                                                 1,288                  1
Riau                   __                 4         I   I                     603                  I
Maliiu                                      2 1                               747                  1
Nu-sa -T,,e-n -gga-ra-                    4                                   92
East Timior           -                                                        85              _ _
Total                      391           ~~~~~~~~~~                       ~       ~~100    94,343  100



35
Table 17: Loan Collection Rates by Participatino Banks
12/91        12/92         12/93        12/94      03/95
State Commercial Banks
1. BRI                            76.9          59.3          53.7         54.5       83.9
2. BNI                            56.8           72.3         76.9         93.3       53.0
3. BDN                            36.4          54.6         6(.'3         58.6       54.8
4. BBD                            34.7           82.4         63.8         78.3       43.9
Private Commercial Banks
5. BCA                            84.9          87.5          90.6         36.3      100.0
6. Bank Niaga                     71.1          84.3          93.6         46.5       93.5
7. Bank Duta                      30.8          79.7          83.1         66.6       32.9
8. BUN                             n.a.        100.(          94.3           na.      90.9
Nat. Development Finance
Institutions.
9. BAPINDO                        32.4          67.7          26.6        6(5.9       15.5
10. UPPINDO                       45.1         s5 0           1(. 5        45.6       13.3
Regional Development Banks
11. RDB East Java                  2.5           9.5          15.7         35.2       10.9
12. RDB Central Java               n.a.         36.7          73.9         50.6       69.0
13. RDB North Sumatera             n .a.        40.4          31.2         81.7        8.5
TOTAL                             53.2          67.9          63.2         61.1       53.0
Source: Bank Indonesia



36
APPENDIX A
TDONESIA
IMALL AND MEDITUM TNDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN 3041-IND)
WORLD BANK SUPERVISION MTSSION
AIDE MF:MOE
1.     A World Bank project supervision and completion mission consisting of Messrs. Oscar
de Bruyn Kops, Yuling Zhou and Klaus Maibach (consultant) visited Indonesia from June 6 to 9,
1995. The purpose of the mission was to conduct the final supervision of the project, and to
initiate preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The Bank Loan (Loan No.
3041-IND) will close on June 30, 1995.
2.     The mission wishes to express its appreciation to the MOF, BI, MIB and PFIs, for the
cooperation and assistance extended to it during the visit
3.     This Aide Memoire summarizes the findings and recommendations of the mission. The
views and opinions expressed herein are subject to the Bank management review and
confirmation.
CREDIT COMPON
General Status
4.     The target groups of the Project are small and medium enterprises engaged in
manufacturing industy, agro-based industry and related services (including transportation, cold
storage, etc.) having from 20 to 150 full time employees and operating assets (excluding land and
inventories) of less than US$500,000 equivalent. All enterprises regardless pf ownership
(indigenous, non-indigenous, domestic and joint ventures) are eligible for financing under the
Project. Eligible subprojects should be financially viable, and above free limit subprojects
should show internal financial rates of return at least equivalent to the PFIs' six-month deposit
rate; sponsor's equity contribution to a subproject's total investment cost should be at least 20%;
the maximum subloan amount is US$525,000 equivalent, of which, the World Bank contributes
80% (USS420.noO) while the PFI covers 20%; the minimum subloan amount was first set at
US$56,000 equivalent and lowered to US$28,000 equivalent subsequently; of the World Bank's
subloan contribution, 40% is allowed to finance permnanent working capital; but pure working
capital subloans are not eligible for financing under the Project.



37
5.        As of June 1, 1995,' one month before the closing date of the Loan, a total of 392
subloans 2 amounting to US$94.4 million in net commitments, or 94.4%  of the total loan amount
(US$100 millio'), are financed. The remaining balance-USS 5.56 million or 5.6%  of total loan
amount - was canceled from the Loan account in July 1994 at the request of GOI because
several PFIs were not able to utilize this amount before the deadline for subloan submission
(June 30, 1994). The total disbursement has reached to US$ 94.3 million, or 99.9% of the
revised Loan amount.
6.        The funds utilization status by each PFI, as of June 1, 1995, is summarized below:
Previous          Amount
Loan        Canceled         Nct    *Uncommitted: Commitmnente                 Disbursement
PFI       Allocation    from Loan    Commitment    Balance        As % of    Disbursement    As % of
_    (USS)         (ISS)                       (USS)       Credit        (USS)       Commitment
UPPINDO'  2,520.110.00           0.00   2520,109.86        0.14      100.00%     2,520,109.86    100.00%
DUTA         1,411,490.00        000    141481.08          8.92  '  100.00%       1,411,481.08.   100.00%
BRI         20,000,000.00        0.00  20_000,000.00       0.00     100 00%      19,998,527.60    99.99%
BCA         10,000,000.00        0.00.  9,999,999.83       0.17  I  100.00%      9,996,943.88     99.97%
BNI         16,180,000.00.       0.00   16,175,469.56   4,530.44     99.97%      16,163,868.42    99.93%
NIAGA        3,000,000.00.       0.00.  2,994,809.36   5,190.64      99.83%       2,993,955.60,.   99.97%
BUN          3,000,000.00    11,642.60   2,988,357.40      0.00      99.61/      2,988,357.40    100.00%
BDN         13,770,000.00.  171,868.52* 13,598,131.48      000       98.75% . 13,588,257.03.   99.93%
RDBNS        3,550,000.00. 141 787.26   3,408,212174       0.00      96.01%      3,408,212.74.  100.00%
R.DBEJ       3.036,000.00   128,404.00*  2,907,596.00      0.00      95.77%      2,904,770.32     99.90%
R.DBCJ       3,532,400.00. 384,256.23   3,148,143.77.      0.00      89.12%.   3,144,748.19       99.89%
BAPINDO*  10,000,000.00 2,338,696.78    7,661,303.22       0.00      76.61%      7,619,253.38 -   99.45%/
BBD         10,000,000.00 2,395,391. 11  7,604,608.89     0.00      76.04%      7,604,608.89    100.00%
TTAL  .100,000,000.00 5,572,046.50  94,418,223.19   9,730.31        94.42%     94,343,094.39    99.92%
Subproiect Infornation
7.        Out of the 392 subprojects financed under the Project, about 50%  are in three
subsectors: food processing, clothing manufacturing and wood-based products. In terms of
subloan nurnbers, food processing accounts for 26% of the total, clothing manufacturing
accounts for 13%, and wood-based products for 1.1%; in terms of projects costs, food processing
accounts for 22%, clothing manufacturing for 14%, and wood-based products for 10%.
8.        In terrns of geographical distribution, except Bengkulu and Irian Java, all other 25
provinces have subproject(s) financed under the Loan. A majority number of the subprojects
The deadline for subloan submission was June 30, 1994.
2   Excluding 40 subioans tha: have been fully canceled at the request of PFIs (because the subloan borrower could
not meet the subloan condirions or withdrawn its proposal).



38
(75%), however, are located in Java, the most industrialized area in Indonesia. The remaining
subprojects (25%) are distributed over the other areas, with 14% in Sumatera, 6% in Sulawesi
and Maluku, 3o in Bali, Nusa Tenggara and East Tirnor, and 2% in Kalimantan.
9.     It is estimated that about 21,000 new jobs would have been generated under the Project.
In terms of subsector distribution, the food processing and clothing manufacturing each account
for about 23%, followed by wood-based products, 11%. The Lverage cost per job created is
about Rp. 15.5 million (about US$ 7,000 equivalent).
10.       The total project cost is estimated to be Rp. 450,950 million, of which, SMIE project
subloans (80% from World Bank loan and 20% from PFIs' own resource) contributed about 62%,
with the balance (38%) financed by the sponsors' equity. The sponsors' actual equity
contribution is far above the 20% requirement under the Project. The average subloan size is
about Rp. 700 million (about US$ 320,000 equivalent).
Subloan Collection Performance
11.    The general loan commitment and disbursement status is satisfactory. The major issue
under the credit component remains unsatisfactory collection performance. In fact, the average
collection performance has deteriorated since the last Supervision (May 1994) according to Bank
Indonesia. Except for three private PFIs and one state PFI whose collection ratios (as of March
31, 1995, ranging from 84% to 100%) were above the minimum 80% threshold requirement
under the Project, the other PFIs were not able to meet the requirement. One PFI's collection
ratio was even less than 10%. The average collection ratio under the Project is now
approximately 53%, compared to 65% about one year ago. This development is of concern to
the mission, and would further adversely affect the outcome of the Project. It may also reflect in
many cases weak performance by the PFIs in analyzing and following up on individual
subprojects. The mission would therefore emphasize again sound loan management as one of the
most important parts in a loar. cycle. Although good loan management can rarely overcome poor
judgment in extending credits, nany good credits become problem loans because banks do not  -
heed the warnings that arise over the life of the loan. A more aggressive loan supervision
approach should be adopted by the PFIs in order to identify early warning signals and prepare for
appropriate actions. Necessary remedial actions in dealing with problem loans have been
discussed by the provisos supervision mission in May 1994 and recorded in its Aide Memoire.
The Government and BI would be well advised to develop an action plan with the PFIs to
address the problem of collection performance to reverse the deteriorating trend.
12.    As recommended by the previous supervisions, many actions could be taken by the PFIs
(including legal action for selling collateral) to address their bad debt issue. However, according
to the existing legai procedures, it may take as long as 3 years for a bank to execute its right on
collateral. Bank Indonesia, in collaboration with Ministry of Justice, the Attorney General and
MOF, is proposing a new Presidential Decree which would sigci ficantly simplify this legal
action process (from 3 years to 3 months) thus help the banks recover their bad debts much more
quickly. This new decree is expected to be issued in August 1995 or earlier.



39
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
13.    Three types of technical assistance were provided under the TA component firm-level
consulting, training, and special studies. As of end December 1994, the quantitative achievement
of the TA included:
about 144 service providers (local consulting finms) were pre-qualifled, of which
about 50% were actually provided various technical assistance under the Project;
* 401 cost-sharing contracts were completed - including 316 ,asibility
studies/business plans and 85 others;
- 88 training courses were conducted involving about 2,792 participants - about 50%
from SMIEs and Service Providers, and the remaining 50% from PFIs, with a total
of 10,721 participating days; and
10 special topical studies were completed see the Attachment for a list of these
studies).
14.    As mentioned above, many activities have been conducted under the TA component,
which have contributed to building up and strengthening the skills and capabilities of both the
local consulting firms and the participating financial institutions. Most of the pre-qualified
consulting firrns are newly established private companies, and mainly involved in accounting and
asset appraisal business with little experience in project appraisal and business planning.
Guidance and training was provided under the TA component to those consulting firms in the
areas of marketing, technical and financial analy-is, and proposal preparation.
15.    The TA component was completed in September 1994 according to the agreed work
plan. A completion report was prepared by an external consultant in December 1994. Some
interesting comments regarding the project design and implementation were made by the
consultant, which will be further evaluated in the preparation of the project Implementation
Completion Report (ICR).
IMPLEMENTATION' COMPLETION REPORT (aCR'
16.    The mission further discussed with MOF, BI, I3I and the PFIs the preparation of the
project ICR. The ICR should assess: (a) the outcome of the project and the achievement of the
original project objectives; (b) prospects for the project's sustainability and future operations; (c)
performance of the Bank and the project implementing agencies; and (d) lessons learnt from
project implementation. The .mrisnion rztvie-wed wiC the va.ious agencies: (i) the outfline of the



40
ICR; (ii) special issues to be reviewed; Ciii) workplan for ICR preparation; and (iv) information
needs.
17.    In addition, the mission discussed the preparation by the various implementing agencies
of the Borrower's own project evaluation report. This report will be attached unedited to the ICR
before it is finalized and submitted to the Bank's Board of Directors. It is understood that the
Director for Extemal Funds, MOF, will provide overall oversight for preparation of the
Borrower's evaluation report It was suggested in some of the meetings that a joint team be
assembled with representatives of the various agencies to prepare the evaluation report A broad
outline of the Borrower's evaluation report is attached.
18.    Mr. Klaus Maibach will be responsible for preparation of the dixft ICR, and will be in
touch with BI, IBI and PFIs to seek necessary information and conduct follow-up interviews.
Mr. Kunrat Wirasubrata (RSI, Jakarta) will help to follow-up. Detailed information requests
necessary for ICR preparation were discussed in detail with the 13 PFIs and MBI and are shown in
an attachment. It was agreed with the PFIs and IBI that necessary information would be sent to
the Bank latest by July 14, 1995. For those PFIs with substantial SMIEP subloan portfolios, a
final deadline for inforrnation submission of July 28, 1995, was agreed. All agencies are
requested to return the information latest by these deadlines to facilitate timely preparation of the
ICR. Follow-up data analysis and interviews will take place in second half July - early August
1995. A draft of the ICR would be circulated in September 1995 for discussion and comments.
Jakarta, Indonesia
June 14, 1995






i I
,       . .



