Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3041 IND
         (Small and Medium Industrial Enterprise Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
             LEMBAGA PENGEMBANGAN PERBANKAN INDONESIA
                        Dated June 1, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3041 IND
                      LPPI PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and LEMBAGA PENGEMBANGAN
PERBANKAN INDONESIA (LPPI).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Republic of Indonesia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to  make  available  to  the Borrower an amount in
various  currencies  equivalent  to  one  hundred  million dollars
($100,000,000), on the terms and  conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that LPPI agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a financial arrangement to be entered into between BI
and LPPI, the grant in-kind of the Netherlands Grant, the proceeds
of the Netherlands Loan and  the  proceeds of the Japan Grant will
be made available to LPPI on the terms and conditions set forth in
the LPPI Financial Arrangement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS LPPI, in  consideration  of  the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the  Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  LPPI  declares  its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering, training, economic,
environmental, technical and  managerial practices, with qualified
and experienced management, staff in adequate numbers and qualifi-
cations, and in accordance with its Charter, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided,  promptly  as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except  as  the Bank and LPPI shall otherwise
agree, LPPI shall carry  out  the  Project  in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of consultants' services  required  for  Part B of the
Project, except for Parts  B  (i)  (2)  and  B  (i) (3), and to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Japan Grant shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. LPPI  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the LPPI  Financial  Arrangement.  Except  as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, LPPI shall not take or concur in any action which
would  have  the  effect  of  amending,  abrogating,  assigning or
waiving the LPPI Financial Arrangement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.04. (a) LPPI  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B
of the Project,  the  performance  of  its  obligations under this
Agreement and  under  the  LPPI  Financial  Arrangement  and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  LPPI shall promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by LPPI  of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and under the LPPI Financial Arrangement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a)  LPPI  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B of
the Project.
     (b)  LPPI shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section for each fiscal year
Page  3
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year,  a  certified copy of the report
               of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records,  accounts  and  audit thereof, as
               the  Bank  shall  from   time  to  time  reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the proceeds of the  Japan  Grant  were  made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, LPPI shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit for the fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal  from  the  proceeds  of  the Japan
               Grant was  made,  all  records  (contracts, orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of LPPI thereunder shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify LPPI thereof.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
Page  4
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D. C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For LPPI:
          Lembaga Pengembangan Perbankan Indonesia
          Jl. Kemang Raya No. 35
          P.O. Box 8/KBYT
          Jakarta, Indonesia
                                            Telex:
                                               62480 BANKMG-IA
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  LPPI  may  be  taken  or  executed by its
Managing Director or such  other  person  or persons as LPPI shall
designate in writing, and  LPPI  shall  furnish to the Bank suffi-
cient evidence of  the  authority  and  the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    LEMBAGA PENGEMBANGAN PERBANKAN INDONESIA
                    By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Employment of Consultants
Page  5
     In order  to  assist  LPPI  in  carrying  out  Part  B of the
Project, except for Parts  B  (i)  (2)  and  B (i) (3), LPPI shall
employ consultants whose qualifications,  experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall  be  satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the  Bank  on  the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of  Consultants  by  World Bank Borrowers and by
The World Bank  as  Executing  Agency"  published  by  the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.   LPPI shall,  by  October  1,  1989,  establish and thereafter
maintain the Technical Assistance  Unit  headed by an officer with
qualifications  and  experience  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and
assigned with  such  powers,  functions,  responsibilities, funds,
staffing and other resources as shall be necessary to enable it to
provide the technical assistance under Part B (i) of the Project.
2.   LPPI  shall  implement  the  technical  assistance activities
under  Part  B  of  the  Project  pursuant  to  the  Statement  of
Objectives satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   LPPI shall enter into  the LPPI Financial Arrangement, satis-
factory  to  the  Bank,  inter  alia  for  purposes  of  obtaining
assistance from BI through  the  Regional Project Management Units
for the carrying out of the  technical assistance under Part B (i)
of the Project.
4.   LPPI shall carry out Parts B (ii),  B (iii) and B (iv) of the
Project in accordance with  training  programs satisfactory to the
Bank.
5.   For  purposes  of   providing   Investment  Enterprises  with
technical assistance under Part B  (i) of the Project, LPPI shall:
(a)  enter  into  agreements  satisfactory  to  the Bank with such
Investment Enterprises  whereby  the  Investment Enterprise shall,
out of the proceeds  of  the  Sub-loan arising from such technical
assistance, refund LPPI the portion  of the cost of such technical
assistance by, inter alia,  authorizing the relevant Participating
Financial Institution to make  available  to  LPPI,  at no cost to
LPPI, out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Sub-loan  the  cost of such
technical assistance; and (b)  make adequate arrangements with the
relevant Participating Financial Institution for such refunding.
6.   For purposes of carrying out Part B (ii) of the Project, LPPI
shall, by October 1,  1989,  retain  the services of the Appraisal
Advisor, such Appraisal  Advisor  to  be  provided  with such sup-
porting staff and other resources  as  shall be required to enable
the Appraisal Advisor to:  (a)  advise the Participating Financial
Institutions in the processing of Sub-loan approval and authoriza-
tion applications; and (b) monitor  the  carrying out of Part A of
the Project.
7.   Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  LPPI shall, on
June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing on December 1, 1989
and thereafter, prepare  and  furnish  to  the Bank project imple-
mentation reports  on  Part  B  of  the  Project  and, taking into
account the Bank's comments, if any, on the implementation of such
Part of the Project, take all such action as shall be necessary to
implement such Part of the Project accordingly.
