Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3041 IND
         (Small and Medium Industrial Enterprise Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
                        Dated June 1, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3041 IND
                     BAPINDO PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1989, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANK PEMBANGUNAN
INDONESIA (BAPINDO).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Republic of Indonesia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to lend to  the Borrower an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to one  hundred million dollars ($100,000,000),
on the terms and conditions  set  forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that BAPINDO agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and BAPINDO, part of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for under the  Loan  Agreement  will be made available to
BAPINDO  on  terms  and  conditions   set  forth  in  the  BAPINDO
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS BAPINDO, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the  Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the  General  Conditions  as  so defined have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
               Management and Operations of BAPINDO
     Section  2.01.  BAPINDO   declares   its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
and conduct its operations  and  affairs, in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, economic  and  managerial standards and
practices, with qualified and  experienced management and staffing
in adequate number and qualifications,  and in accordance with its
Governing Law, and shall  provide,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other  resources  required  for Part A of
the Project.
     Section 2.02. (a)  BAPINDO  undertakes  that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans shall  be made in accordance with
the procedures  and  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth or
referred to in the Schedule to this Agreement.
     (b)  BAPINDO shall exercise  its  rights  in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Bank and of BAPINDO; (ii) comply with its obligations under
this Agreement  and  the  BAPINDO  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section 2.03. BAPINDO  shall  carry  out  the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition) in respect of Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.04. BAPINDO shall  duly perform all its obligations
under the BAPINDO Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, BAPINDO  shall  not  take  or concur in any
action  which  would  have  the  effect  of  assigning,  amending,
abrogating or waiving the BAPINDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) BAPINDO shall,  at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A
of the Project,  the  performance  of  its  obligations under this
Agreement and  under  the  BAPINDO  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  BAPINDO shall furnish to  the  Bank all such information
as the Bank shall  reasonably  request concerning the expenditures
of the proceeds of the  Sub-loans, the Investment Enterprises, the
Investment  Projects  and   the   administration,  operations  and
financial condition of BAPINDO.
     (c)  BAPINDO shall promptly inform  the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by BAPINDO of its obligations under this Agreement
Page  3
and under the BAPINDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. Except as the  Bank and BAPINDO shall otherwise
agree, BAPINDO shall: (a)  not  sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its  property  or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and (b)  take all action necessary to maintain
its corporate existence and right  to  carry on its operations and
to acquire, maintain and renew  all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
     Section 2.07.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
BAPINDO shall use the proceeds accrued to it from the repayment of
the principal of  Sub-loans  for  further  relending to Investment
Enterprises for Sub-loans on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Schedule to this Agreement  (except  for those relating to the
Bank's approval of Sub-loans)  and  with  due consideration of its
obligation under the BAPINDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section  3.01.  (a)  BAPINDO  shall  maintain  procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and  of  each  Investment  Project  (including  its  cost  and the
benefits to be derived from it)  and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound  accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of BAPINDO.
     (b)  BAPINDO shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, BAPINDO shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section, separate  records  and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audit  referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that  the report thereof contains,
Page  4
               in respect of  such  separate  accounts, a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds
               of the Loan withdrawn  in  respect of such expendi-
               tures were used  for  the  purposes  for which they
               were provided.
     Section 3.02. BAPINDO shall,  in its term lending operations,
take such steps  as  shall  be  necessary  to cover itself against
foreign exchange risk.
     Section 3.03. BAPINDO shall, commencing  on March 1, 1990 and
thereafter, maintain a collection ratio  of not less than 77.5% on
its lending operations  and  a  loan  arrears  ratio not to exceed
7.5%. For purposes  of  this  Section  the  terms: (a) "collection
ratio" means total cash collection in the last twelve month period
as a percentage of amounts  past  due  at  the start of the period
plus billings of current amounts  due, net of amounts rescheduled;
and (b)  "loan  arrears  ratio"  means  arrears  on  principal and
interest over three months  due,  as  a  percentage of total loans
outstanding.  For purposes of this Section, BAPINDO shall maintain
procedures and records  satisfactory  to  the  Bank to monitor and
evaluate the said performance criteria semi-annually.
     Section 3.04.  BAPINDO  shall  be  eligible  to request with-
drawals from the Loan  for  Sub-loans upon BAPINDO furnishing evi-
dence satisfactory to the Bank  that its collection ratio and loan
arrears ratio, as such terms  are  defined in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement, shall not be less  than  72.5%  and not to exceed 7.5%,
respectively.
     Section 3.05. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
BAPINDO, commencing  with  its  fiscal  year  1989 and thereafter,
shall not incur any debt,  unless  its net revenues for the fiscal
year immediately preceding the  date  of  such incurrence or for a
later  twelve-month  period  ended  prior  to  the  date  of  such
incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.25 times
the estimated maximum debt service requirements of BAPINDO for any
succeeding fiscal year on all  debt of BAPINDO, including the debt
to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt"  means  any indebtedness of BAPINDO
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to  operations  adjusted  to  take  account of
                    BAPINDO's interest rates in effect at the time
                    of the  incurrence  of  debt  even though they
                    were not  in  effect  during  the twelve-month
                    period to which  such  revenues relate and net
                    non-operating income; and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including       administration,       adequate
                    maintenance, taxes  and  payments  in  lieu of
                    taxes,    but    excluding    provision    for
                    depreciation, other non-cash operating charges
                    and interest and other charges on debt.
Page  5
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 3.06.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
BAPINDO, commencing  with  its  fiscal  year  1989 and thereafter,
shall take all such  action  as  shall  be  necessary to ensure an
interest cover ratio of not  less  than 1.5 times. For purposes of
this Section the term "interest  cover ratio" means cash generated
by operations (gross cash  income  less administrative and general
expenses and income tax) divided by total interest on borrowings.
     Section 3.07. By August 31,  1989,  or such other date as the
Bank shall otherwise agree,  BAPINDO  shall retain the services of
an  advisor  whose   qualifications,   experience  and  terms  and
conditions of employment  shall  be  satisfactory  to the Bank for
purposes of advising BAPINDO's management on banking and financial
matters, including the preparation and implementation of BAPINDO's
long-term development  strategy  and  implementation  plan.   Such
advisor  shall  be  selected  in  accordance  with  principles and
procedures  satisfactory  to  the   Bank   on  the  basis  of  the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
     Section 3.08. By March 31,  1990,  or  such other date as the
Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  BAPINDO  shall  adopt  a long-term
development strategy and implementation  plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, and, thereafter, implement such plan.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of BAPINDO thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify BAPINDO thereof.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  6
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for Reconstruction
            and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
    For BAPINDO:
          Bank Pembangunan Indonesia
          P.O. Box 140
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               BAPINDO                        61577 BPINKB
               Jakarta
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BAPINDO,  or  by  BAPINDO, on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its
President Director, or by  such  other  person or persons as their
Board  of  Managing  Directors  shall  designate  in  writing, and
BAPINDO, shall furnish  to  the  Bank  sufficient  evidence of the
authority and the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each such
person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                        BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
Page  7
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   Sub-loans shall have a maximum  repayment period of 12 years,
including grace period, if any,  and interest rate at the prevail-
ing market rate for similar lending operations in Indonesia.
2.   No expenditures for goods,  civil  works or services required
for an Investment Project shall  be  eligible for financing out of
the proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank  and  such  expenditures shall have been made
not earlier than ninety days prior  to  the date on which the Bank
shall have received the application and information required under
paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan  for  which  the  Bank  has authorized with-
drawals from the  Loan  Account  and  such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety  days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received  the request and information required
under paragraph 4 (b) of  this  Schedule  in respect of such free-
limit Sub-loan. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, for the
purposes of the Loan  Agreement  and  this Agreement, a free-limit
Sub-loan shall represent  the  investment  portion of the Sub-loan
being financed out of  the  proceeds  of  the Loan which shall not
exceed, when added to  any  other  outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the Loan for
investments   under   the   same   Investment   Project,  $210,000
equivalent; provided, further, that  the  first two Sub-loans made
or proposed to be  made  by  BAPINDO, regardless of their amounts,
shall be subject to the Bank's approval.
3.   Except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, BAPINDO shall not
make any  Sub-loan  in  an  amount:  (a)  below  the equivalent of
$56,000 and (b) exceeding  the  equivalent  of  $525,000, or in an
amount which would exceed such  limit  when added to the amount of
all other Sub-loans made  for  the  same Investment Project out of
the proceeds  of  the  Loan;  provided,  however,  that the amount
representing the permanent  working  capital  under the Investment
Project shall not exceed 40% of the Sub-loan.
4.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval,  BAPINDO shall furnish to the Bank
an application, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, together with:
(i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of
the  Investment   Project,   including   a   description   of  the
expenditures proposed to be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan; (ii) the  proposed  terms  and  conditions  of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of  amortization  of the Sub-loan; (iii) an
environmental impact analysis  of  the Investment Project together
with  a  survey  to  identify  existing  environmental  impact and
proposed solutions to ameliorate such  impact; and (iv) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each  request  by  BAPINDO  for  authorization  to  make
withdrawals from the Loan Account  in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain: (i)  a  summary  description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment  Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of
the Loan; and  (ii)  the  terms  and  conditions  of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1994.
5.   Sub-loans  shall  be  made  on  terms  whereby  BAPINDO shall
Page  8
obtain, by written contract  with  the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate  legal  means,  rights  adequate  to protect the
interests of the Bank and  BAPINDO,  including, in the case of any
Sub-loan the right to:
     (a)  require  the  Investment  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and  in  accordance  with  sound  technical,  financial, economic,
managerial  and  environmental  standards  and  practices,  and to
maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods, civil works and services to
be financed out of the proceeds  of the Loan shall be purchased at
a reasonable price,  account  being  taken  also of other relevant
factors  such  as,  in  the  case  of  goods,  time  of  delivery,
reliability and availability  of  maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the  case  of civil works and services, of
their quality and the  competence  of  the parties rendering them;
and (ii)  such  goods,  civil  works  and  services  shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, such goods, works, plants,
construction and installations, as  the  case  may be, included in
the Investment Project,  the  operation  thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i)  the  Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business  practice;  and  (ii)  without  any  limitation  upon the
foregoing, such  insurance  shall  cover  hazards  incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to  the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the  Investment  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as the Bank or BAPINDO shall
reasonably  request  relating   to   the   foregoing  and  to  the
administration,  operations  and   financial   conditions  of  the
Investment Enterprise and to the  benefits  to be derived from the
Investment Project; and
     (f)  suspend  or  terminate  the   right  of  the  Investment
Enterprise to the use of the  proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise  to  perform  its obligations under its
contract with BAPINDO.
6.   Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  to qualify for
obtaining a Sub-loan, an Investment Enterprise shall demonstrate:
     (a)  that  it  is  engaged   in  the  manufacturing  industry
subsector and/or  the  agro-based  industry  subsector, or related
services therein, (including transportation and cold storage);
     (b)  that it employs between 20 and 150 full-time employees;
     (c)  that  it  has  operating   assets  (excluding  land  and
inventories) of less than $500,000 equivalent; and
     (d)  that the Investment  Project  for  which the Sub-loan is
being requested shall:
          (i)  be financed by not less  than 20% of its total cost
               from  the   own   resources   of   such  Investment
               Enterprise;
         (ii)  have a financial rate  of  return  of not less than
               BAPINDO's three-months deposit rate; and
        (iii)  satisfy  environmental  guidelines  and regulations
Page  9
               existing in Indonesia.
Provided, however, that  the  requirements  under  paragraph 5 (d)
(ii) of  this  Schedule  shall  not  apply  to Investment Projects
financed by a free-limit Sub-loan.
7.   Without any limitation to  the  provisions  of paragraph 4 of
this Schedule, in those cases  where the Investment Enterprise has
been provided by LPPI with  technical  assistance under Part B (i)
of the Project, and  BAPINDO  is  financing the Investment Project
resulting from such  technical  assistance,  BAPINDO shall, at the
request of  LPPI,  enter  into  an  agreement  with the Investment
Enterprise to withhold from the  proceeds of the Sub-loan the cost
of such technical assistance  for  purposes of making it available
to LPPI.
8.   Without any limitation to  the  provisions  of paragraph 4 of
this  Schedule,  BAPINDO  undertakes   to   avail  itself  in  the
processing of Sub-loan approval  and authorization applications of
the technical assistance to be provided by the Appraisal Advisor.
9.   Without any limitation to the  provisions of Section 2.05 (b)
of this Agreement, BAPINDO shall  provide to the Appraisal Advisor
all such information  as  the  Appraisal  Advisor shall reasonably
request concerning the  Sub-loans,  the Investment Enterprises and
the Investment Projects.
