Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3041 IND
         (Small and Medium Industrial Enterprise Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
              USAHA PEMBIAYAAN PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
                        Dated June 1, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3041 IND
                     UPPINDO PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1989, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and USAHA PEMBIAYAAN
PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (UPPINDO).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Republic of Indonesia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to lend to  the Borrower an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to one  hundred million dollars ($100,000,000),
on the terms and conditions  set  forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that UPPINDO agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
     (B)  by an on-lending agreement to be entered into between BI
and UPPINDO, part of the  proceeds  of the Loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made  available to UPPINDO on terms and
conditions set forth in the UPPINDO On-lending Agreement; and
     WHEREAS UPPINDO, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the
Page  2
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the  General  Conditions  as  so defined have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
                   Management and Operations of
             the Participating Financial Institutions
     Section  2.01.  UPPINDO   declares   its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
and conduct its operations  and  affairs, in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, economic  and  managerial standards and
practices, with qualified and  experienced management and staffing
in adequate number and qualifications,  and in accordance with its
Charter  and  shall  provide,   promptly  as  needed,  the  funds,
facilities, services and other  resources  required  for Part A of
the Project.
     Section 2.02. (a)  UPPINDO  undertakes  that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans shall  be made in accordance with
the procedures  and  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth or
referred to in the Schedule to this Agreement.
     (b)  UPPINDO shall exercise  its  rights  in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Bank and  UPPINDO;  (ii)  comply with its obligations under
this  Agreement  and   the   UPPINDO   On-lending  Agreement;  and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section 2.03. UPPINDO  shall  carry  out  the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition) in respect of Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.04. UPPINDO shall  duly perform all its obligations
under the UPPINDO On-lending  Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, UPPINDO shall  not  take  or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of assigning, amending, abrogating or
waiving the UPPINDO On-lending Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) UPPINDO shall,  at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A
of the Project,  the  performance  of  its  obligations under this
Agreement and under  the  UPPINDO  On-lending  Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  UPPINDO shall furnish to  the  Bank all such information
as the Bank shall  reasonably  request concerning the expenditures
of the proceeds of the  Sub-loans, the Investment Enterprises, the
Investment  Projects  and   the   administration,  operations  and
financial condition of UPPINDO.
     (c)  UPPINDO shall promptly inform  the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by  UPPINDO  of  its  respective obligations under
this Agreement and under the UPPINDO On-lending Agreement.
     Section 2.06. Except as the  Bank and UPPINDO shall otherwise
Page  3
agree, UPPINDO shall: (i)  not  sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its  property  or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and (ii) take all action necessary to maintain
its corporate existence and right  to  carry on its operations and
to acquire, maintain and renew  all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
     Section 2.07.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
UPPINDO shall use the proceeds  accrued to them from the repayment
of the principal of Sub-loans  for further relending to Investment
Enterprises for Sub-loans on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Schedule to this Agreement  (except  for those relating to the
Bank's approval of Sub-loans) and  with due consideration to their
obligation under the UPPINDO On-lending Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section  3.01.  (a)  UPPINDO  shall  maintain  procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and  of  each  Investment  Project  (including  its  cost  and the
benefits to be derived from it)  and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound  accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of UPPINDO.
     (b)  UPPINDO shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, UPPINDO shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section, separate  records  and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audit  referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that  the report thereof contains,
               in respect of  such  separate  accounts, a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds
               of the Loan withdrawn  in  respect of such expendi-
Page  4
               tures were used  for  the  purposes  for which they
               were provided.
     Section 3.02. UPPINDO shall,  in its term lending operations,
take such steps  as  shall  be  necessary  to cover itself against
foreign exchange risk.
     Section 3.03. UPPINDO  shall,  commencing  on its fiscal year
1989 and thereafter, maintain a  collection ratio of not less than
80% on all Sub-loans and  other lending operations made by UPPINDO
under Prior Loan  Agreements.  For  purposes  of  this Section the
terms "collection ratio" means  total  cash collection in the last
twelve month period as  a  percentage  of  amounts past due at the
start of the period plus  billings  of current amounts due, net of
amounts rescheduled; and  "Prior  Loan  Agreements"  mean the Loan
Agreements entered into between the  Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank of even date  herewith  (Loan  No.  3040-IND), and August 24,
1988 (Loan No. 2979-IND).
     Section 3.04. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
UPPINDO commencing on its  fiscal  year 1989 and thereafter, shall
not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt its ratio
of debt to equity shall be greater than 7 to 1.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt"  means  any indebtedness of UPPINDO
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The term "equity" means the  sum of the total unim-
               paired paid-up  capital,  subordinated  loans under
               terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Bank,
               retained  earnings  and  reserves  of  UPPINDO  not
               allocated to cover its specific liabilities.
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 3.05. In order  to monitor and evaluate semi-annually
the performance criteria set  forth  in  Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of
this Agreement,  UPPINDO  shall  maintain  adequate procedures and
records, satisfactory to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of UPPINDO thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify UPPINDO thereof.
Page  5
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for Reconstruction
            and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
    For UPPINDO:
          Usaha Pembiayaan Pembangunan Indonesia
          Jl. H.R. Rasuna Said Kav C-19
          Jakarta, Indonesia
                                            Telex:
                                               46343 UPPINDO IA
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of  UPPINDO  or  by  UPPINDO  on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its
President Director, or by  such  other  person or persons as their
Board  of  Managing  Directors  shall  designate  in  writing, and
UPPINDO shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  sufficient  evidence of the
authority and the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each such
person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
Page  6
                        USAHA PEMBIAYAAN PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   Sub-loans shall have a maximum  repayment period of 12 years,
including grace period, if any,  and interest rate at the prevail-
ing market rate for similar lending operations in Indonesia.
2.   No expenditures for goods,  civil  works or services required
for an Investment Project shall  be  eligible for financing out of
the proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank  and  such  expenditures shall have been made
not earlier than ninety days prior  to  the date on which the Bank
shall have received the application and information required under
paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a  free-limit  Sub-loan   for   which   the  Bank  has  authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety  days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received  the request and information required
under paragraph 4 (b) of  this  Schedule  in respect of such free-
limit Sub-loan. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, for the
purposes of the Loan  Agreement  and  this Agreement, a free-limit
Sub-loan shall represent  the  investment  portion of the Sub-loan
being financed out of  the  proceeds  of  the Loan which shall not
exceed, when added to  any  other  outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the Loan for
investments under the same  Investment  Project, $210,000  equiva-
lent; provided, further,  that  the  first  two  Sub-loans made or
proposed to be made by UPPINDO, regardless of their amounts, shall
require the Bank's approval.
3.   Except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, UPPINDO shall not
make any  Sub-loan  in  an  amount:  (a)  below  the equivalent of
$56,000 and (b) exceeding  the  equivalent  of  $525,000, or in an
amount which would exceed such  limit  when added to the amount of
all other Sub-loans made  for  the  same Investment Project out of
the proceeds  of  the  Loan;  provided,  however,  that the amount
representing the permanent working capital shall not exceed 40% of
the Sub-loan.
4.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval,  UPPINDO shall furnish to the Bank
an application, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, together with:
(i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of
the  Investment   Project,   including   a   description   of  the
expenditures proposed to be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan; (ii) the  proposed  terms  and  conditions  of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of  amortization  of the Sub-loan; (iii) an
environmental impact analysis  of  the Investment Project together
with  a  survey  to  identify  existing  environmental  impact and
proposed solutions to ameliorate such  impact; and (iv) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each  request  by  UPPINDO  for  authorization  to  make
withdrawals from the Loan Account  in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain: (i)  a  summary  description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment  Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of
the Loan; and  (ii)  the  terms  and  conditions  of the Sub-loan,
Page  7
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1994.
5.   Sub-loans  shall  be  made  on  terms  whereby  UPPINDO shall
obtain, by written contract  with  the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate  legal  means,  rights  adequate  to protect the
interests of the Bank and  UPPINDO,  including, in the case of any
Sub-loan the right to:
     (a)  require  the  Investment  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and  in  accordance  with  sound  technical,  financial, economic,
managerial  and  environmental  standards  and  practices,  and to
maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods, civil works and services to
be financed out of the proceeds  of the Loan shall be purchased at
a reasonable price,  account  being  taken  also of other relevant
factors  such  as,  in  the  case  of  goods,  time  of  delivery,
reliability and availability  of  maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the  case  of civil works and services, of
their quality and the  competence  of  the parties rendering them;
and (ii)  such  goods,  civil  works  and  services  shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank, if the Bank shall  so request, such goods, works, plants
and constructions and installations, as  the case may be, included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i)  the  Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business  practice;  and  (ii)  without  any  limitation  upon the
foregoing, such  insurance  shall  cover  hazards  incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to  the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the  Investment  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as the Bank or UPPINDO shall
reasonably  request  relating   to   the   foregoing  and  to  the
administration,  operations  and   financial   conditions  of  the
Investment Enterprise and to the  benefits  to be derived from the
Investment Project; and
     (f)  suspend  or  terminate  the   right  of  the  Investment
Enterprise to the use of the  proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise  to  perform  its obligations under its
contract with UPPINDO.
6.   Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  to qualify for
obtaining a Sub-loan, an Investment Enterprise shall demonstrate:
     (a)  that  it  is  engaged   in  the  manufacturing  industry
subsector and/or  the  agro-based  industry  subsector, or related
services therein, (including transportation and cold storage);
     (b)  that it employs between 20 and 150 full-time employees;
     (c)  that  it  has  operating   assets  (excluding  land  and
inventories) of less than $500,000 equivalent; and
     (d)  that the Investment  Project  for  which the Sub-loan is
being requested shall:
          (i)  be financed, by  not  less  than  20%  of its total
Page  8
               cost, from  the  own  resources  of such Investment
               Enterprise;
         (ii)  have a financial rate  of  return  of not less than
               UPPINDO's three months  certificate of deposit rate
               or the average of the other Participating Financial
               Institutions' three-month  deposit  rate, whichever
               is lesser; and
        (iii)  satisfy  environmental  guidelines  and regulations
               existing in Indonesia.
Provided, however, that  the  requirements  under  paragraph 5 (d)
(ii) of  this  Schedule  shall  not  apply  to Investment Projects
financed by a free-limit Sub-loan.
7.   Without any limitation to  the  provisions  of paragraph 4 of
this Schedule, in those cases  where the Investment Enterprise has
been provided by LPPI with  technical  assistance under Part B (i)
of the Project, and  UPPINDO  is  financing the Investment Project
resulting from such  technical  assistance,  UPPINDO shall, at the
request of  LPPI,  enter  into  an  agreement  with the Investment
Enterprise to withhold from the  proceeds of the Sub-loan the cost
of such technical assistance  for  purposes of making it available
to LPPI.
8.   Without any limitation to  the  provisions  of paragraph 4 of
this  Schedule,  UPPINDO  undertakes   to   avail  itself  in  the
processing of Sub-loan  approval  and authorization application of
the technical assistance to be provided by the Appraisal Advisor.
9.   Without any limitation to the  provisions of Section 2.05 (b)
of this Agreement, UPPINDO shall  provide to the Appraisal Advisor
all such information  as  the  Appraisal  Advisor shall reasonably
request concerning the  Sub-loans,  the Investment Enterprises and
the Investment Projects.
