Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3041 IND
         (Small and Medium Industrial Enterprise Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    BANK NEGARA INDONESIA 1946
                        BANK DAGANG NEGARA
                       BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
                          BANK BUMI DAYA
             REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF CENTRAL JAVA
              REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF EAST JAVA
            REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF NORTH SUMATERA
                            BANK NIAGA
                             BANK DUTA
                        BANK UMUM NASIONAL
                         BANK CENTRAL ASIA
                        Dated June 1, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3041 IND
             COMMERCIAL AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1989, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and BANK NEGARA
INDONESIA 1946 (Bank BNI),  BANK  DAGANG NEGARA (BDN), BANK RAKYAT
INDONESIA (BRI), BANK BUMI  DAYA  (BBD), REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
OF CENTRAL JAVA (RDB  Central  Bank), REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF
EAST JAVA (RDB  East  Java),  REGIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  BANK OF NORTH
SUMATERA (RDB North Sumatera), BANK NIAGA, BANK DUTA, BANK CENTRAL
ASIA (BCA) and BANK UMUM NASIONAL (BUN).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Republic of Indonesia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to lend to  the Borrower an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to one  hundred million dollars ($100,000,000),
on the terms and conditions  set  forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that Bank BNI,  BDN, BRI, BBD, RDB Central Java,
RDB East Java, RDB North Sumatera,  Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, BCA and
BUN each agree to  undertake  such  obligations toward the Bank as
Page  2
are set forth in this Agreement; and
     (B)  by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between
the Borrower and BI, Bank  BNI,  BDN,  BRI, BBD, RDB Central Java,
RDB East Java, RDB North Sumatera, and on-lending agreements to be
entered into between BI  and  Bank  Niaga,  Bank Duta, BCA and BUN
part of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  provided  for under the Loan
Agreement will be  made  available  to the Participating Financial
Institutions  being  a  party  to  this  Agreement  on  terms  and
conditions set forth  in  the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreements and On-
lending Agreements, as the case may be; and
     WHEREAS Bank BNI, BDN, BRI, BBD,  RDB of Central Java, RDB of
East Java, RDB of North  Sumatera,  Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, BCA and
BUN,  in  consideration  of  the  Bank's  entering  into  the Loan
Agreement  with  the  Borrower,   have  agreed  to  undertake  the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the  General  Conditions  as  so defined have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
                   Management and Operations of
           Bank BNI, BDN, BRI, BBD, RDB of Central Java,
             RDB of East Java, RDB of North Sumatera,
                Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, BCA and BUN
     Section 2.01. Bank BNI, BDN,  BRI,  BBD, RDB of Central Java,
RDB of East Java, RDB  of  North  Sumatera, Bank Niaga, Bank Duta,
BCA and BUN  declare  their  commitment  to  the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule  2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to
this end, shall carry out Part  A of the Project and conduct their
operations and affairs,  in  accordance with sound administrative,
financial, economic and  managerial  standards and practices, with
qualified and  experienced  management  and  staffing  in adequate
number and qualifications, and  in accordance with their Governing
Laws and Charters, as the case may be, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the  funds,  facilities,  services  and other resources
required for Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.02. (a) Bank  BNI,  BDN,  BRI,  BBD, RDB of Central
Java, RDB of East Java,  RDB  of  North Sumatera, Bank Niaga, Bank
Duta, BCA and BUN undertake  that, unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, Sub-loans shall be  made  in accordance with the procedures
and on the terms and  conditions  set  forth or referred to in the
Schedule to this Agreement.
     (b)  Each Bank BNI, BDN, BRI,  BBD,  RDB of Central Java, RDB
of East Java, RDB of  North  Sumatera,  Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, BCA
and BUN shall exercise its  rights  in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner  as  to:  (i)  protect the interests of the
Bank and  of  the  relevant  Participating  Financial Institution;
(ii) comply with  its  obligations  under  this  Agreement and the
relevant Subsidiary Loan Agreement or On-lending Agreement, as the
case may be; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section 2.03. Bank BNI, BDN,  BRI,  BBD, RDB of Central Java,
RDB of East Java, RDB  of  North  Sumatera, Bank Niaga, Bank Duta,
BCA and BUN shall carry out  the obligations set forth in Sections
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,  9.08  and  9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to  insurance,  use  of  goods  and  services, plans and
schedules, records and reports,  maintenance and land acquisition)
Page  3
in respect of Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.04. Each Bank  BNI,  BDN,  BRI, BBD, RDB of Central
Java, RDB of East Java,  RDB  of  North Sumatera, Bank Niaga, Bank
Duta, BCA and BUN shall duly perform all its obligations under the
relevant Subsidiary Loan Agreement or On-lending Agreement, as the
case may be. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, each Bank
BNI, BDN, BRI, BBD, RDB of Central  Java, RDB of East Java, RDB of
North Sumatera, Bank Niaga, Bank Duta,  BCA and BUN shall not take
or concur in any action which  would have the effect of assigning,
amending, abrogating or  waiving  their respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or On-lending  Agreement,  as  the  case  may be, or any
provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) Bank  BNI,  BDN,  BRI,  BBD, RDB of Central
Java, RDB of East Java,  RDB  of  North Sumatera, Bank Niaga, Bank
Duta, BCA and BUN  shall,  at  the  request  of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard  to  the progress of Part A of the
Project, the performance of their obligations under this Agreement
and under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement or On-lending
Agreement, as the case may  be,  and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  Bank BNI, BDN, BRI,  BBD,  RDB  of  Central Java, RDB of
East Java, RDB of North  Sumatera,  Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, BCA and
BUN shall furnish to  the  Bank  all  such information as the Bank
shall  reasonably  request  concerning  the  expenditures  of  the
proceeds  of  the  Sub-loans,   the  Investment  Enterprises,  the
Investment  Projects  and   the   administration,  operations  and
financial  condition  of  the  respective  Participating Financial
Institution.
     (c)  Bank BNI, BDN, BRI,  BBD,  RDB  of  Central Java, RDB of
East Java, RDB of North  Sumatera,  Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, BCA and
BUN  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of  any  condition  which
interferes or threatens to interfere  with  the progress of Part A
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the   performance   by   the   relevant   Participating  Financial
Institutions of their respective  obligations under this Agreement
and under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement or On-lending
Agreement, as the case may be.
     Section 2.06.  Except  as  the  Bank  and those Participating
Financial Institutions  being  a  party  to  this  Agreement shall
otherwise agree,  such  Participating  Financial Institutions: (i)
shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets, except in the ordinary course of business; and
(ii) shall take  all  action  necessary  to maintain its corporate
existence and right to  carry  on  its  operations and to acquire,
maintain and renew all  rights,  powers, privileges and franchises
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
     Section 2.07. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, Bank
BNI, BDN, BRI, BBD, RDB of Central  Java, RDB of East Java, RDB of
North Sumatera, Bank Niaga, Bank  Duta,  BCA and BUN shall use the
proceeds accrued to them  from  the  repayment of the principal of
Sub-loans for further relending to Investment Enterprises for Sub-
loans on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth in the Schedule to
this Agreement (except for  those  relating  to Bank's approval of
Sub-loans) and with due  consideration  of their obligations under
their  respective  subsidiary   loan   agreements  and  on-lending
agreements, as the case may be.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) Bank  BNI,  BDN,  BRI,  BBD, RDB of Central
Java, RDB of East Java,  RDB  of  North Sumatera, Bank Niaga, Bank
Duta, BCA and BUN  shall  maintain procedures and records adequate
to monitor and record  the  progress  of  the  Project and of each
Investment Project (including  its  cost  and  the  benefits to be
Page  4
derived from it) and  to  reflect  in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of Bank BNI, BDN, BRI,  BBD, RDB of Central Java, RDB of
East Java, RDB of North  Sumatera,  Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, BCA and
BUN.
     (b)  Bank BNI, BDN, BRI,  BBD,  RDB  of  Central Java, RDB of
East Java, RDB of North  Sumatera,  Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, BCA and
BUN shall:
          (i)  have their records,  accounts  and financial state-
               ments (balance  sheets,  statements  of  income and
               expenses and  related  statements)  for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, Bank BNI, BDN, BRI, BBD,  RDB of Central Java, RDB of
East Java, RDB of North  Sumatera,  Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, BCA and
BUN shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section, separate  records  and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audit  referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that  the report thereof contains,
               in respect of  such  separate  accounts, a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds
               of the Loan withdrawn  in  respect of such expendi-
               tures were used  for  the  purposes  for which they
               were provided.
     Section 3.02. Bank BNI, BDN,  BRI,  BBD, RDB of Central Java,
RDB of East Java, RDB  of  North  Sumatera, Bank Niaga, Bank Duta,
BCA and BUN shall,  in  their  term  lending operations, take such
steps as shall be  necessary  to  cover themselves against foreign
exchange risk.
     Section 3.03. Bank BNI, BDN,  BRI,  BBD, RDB of Central Java,
RDB of East Java, RDB  of  North  Sumatera, Bank Niaga, Bank Duta,
BCA and BUN each shall,  commencing  on their fiscal year 1989 and
thereafter, maintain a collection  ratio  of  not less than 80% on
all Sub-loans and other lending  operations made by Bank BNI, BDN,
BRI, BBD, RDB of  Central  Java,  RDB  of  East Java, RDB of North
Sumatera, Bank Niaga,  Bank  Duta,  BCA  and  BUN under Prior Loan
Page  5
Agreements, as the case may  be.  For purposes of this Section the
terms "collection ratio" means  total  cash collection in the last
twelve month period as  a  percentage  of  amounts past due at the
start of the period plus  billings  of current amounts due, net of
amounts rescheduled; and  "Prior  Loan  Agreements"  mean the Loan
Agreements entered into between the  Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank of even date herewith  (Loan  No. 3040-IND), as well as those
dated June 26, 1986 (Loan No. 2702-IND), and August 24, 1988 (Loan
No. 2979-IND).
     Section 3.04. Bank BNI, BDN,  BRI,  BBD, RDB of Central Java,
RDB of East Java, RDB  of  North  Sumatera, Bank Niaga, Bank Duta,
BCA and BUN each shall take  all such action as shall be necessary
to  ensure  that  commencing   on   their  fiscal  year  1989  and
thereafter, each of their  aggregate outstanding disbursements and
undisbursed  commitments  under  this  Agreement  and  Prior  Loan
Agreements shall not exceed their total net worth. For purposes of
this Section the  terms  "net  worth"  means  paid in-capital plus
reserves and retained earnings,  and  "Prior Loan Agreements" mean
the Loan Agreements entered into between the Republic of Indonesia
and the Bank of even date herewith (Loan No. 3040-IND), as well as
those dated June 26, 1986 (Loan No. 2702-IND), and August 24, 1988
(Loan No. 2979-IND).
     Section 3.05. In order  to monitor and evaluate semi-annually
the performance criteria set  forth  in  Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of
this Agreement, each Bank BNI, BDN, BRI, BBD, RDB of Central Java,
RDB of East Java, RDB  of  North  Sumatera, Bank Niaga, Bank Duta,
BCA  and  BUN  shall  maintain  adequate  procedures  and records,
satisfactory to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of Bank BNI, BDN, BRI,  BBD,  RDB of Central Java, RDB of East
Java, RDB of North Sumatera,  Bank  Niaga,  Bank Duta, BCA and BUN
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with  its  terms, and the Bank shall
promptly notify Bank BNI, BDN, BRI,  BBD, RDB of Central Java, RDB
of East Java, RDB of  North  Sumatera,  Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, BCA
and BUN thereof.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for Reconstruction
            and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  6
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For Bank BNI:
          Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
          Jalan Lada No. 1
          P.O. Box 1946 KB/JAK
          Jakarta 11001, Indonesia
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               KANTORBESAR                     42702 KBBNI - Jakarta
               Jakarta, Indonesia              42703 - Jakarta
                                               42724 KBBNI - Jakarta
    For BDN:
          Bank Dagang Negara
          Jalan M.H. Thamrin No. 5
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               STACOPUS                        61841 BDN UPK IA
               Jakarta, Indonesia              61365 BDN UPK IA
    For BRI:
          Bank Rakyat Indonesia
          Jalan Jend. Sudirman Kav. 42-43
          Tromolpos 94
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               KANPUSBRI                       62521
               Jakarta, Indonesia              44574
                                               45590
    For BBD:
          Bank Bumi Daya
          P.O. Box 106
          Jakarta 10002, Indonesia
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               BEDELUAR                        61117 BDULN IA
               Jakarta, Indonesia              61122 BDULN IA
                                               61340 BDULN IA
    For RDB Central Java:
          Bank Pembangunan Daerah Jawa Tengah
          J1. Pemuda No. 4 A
          Semarang, Indonesia
          Cable address                     Telex:
               BEPEDE JATENG                  22301
    For RDB East Java:
          Bank Pembangunan Daerah Jawa Timur
          J1. Basuki Rakhmat No. 98 - 104
Page  7
          Surabaya, Indonesia
                                            Telex:
                                              32376
                                              32377
                                              32378
                                              31525
    For RDB North Sumatera:
          Bank Pembangunan Daerah Sumatra Utara
          J1. Imam Bonjol No. 7
          Medan, Indonesia
                                            Telex:
                                              51346
    For Bank Niaga:
          Bank Niaga
          Jalan M.H. Thamrin 55
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               NIAGABANK                       44996 - NAGAHO - IA
               Jakarta, Indonesia              61334 - NAGAHO - IA
                                               61728 - PSTBN  - IA
    For Bank Duta:
          Bank Duta
          Jl. Kebon Sirih 12
          Jakarta 10110, Indonesia
          Cable address                     Telex:
          DUTABANK                             48308 BD - JKT
          Jakarta, Indonesia                   49528 BD - JKT
    For BCA:
          Bank Central Asia
          J1. Asemka 27-30
          Jakarta, Indonesia
                                            Telex:
                                              42860-BCA-IA
                                              41585-BCAKPO-IA
    For BUN:
          Bank Umum Nasional
          J1. Prapatan No. 50
          Jakarta, Indonesia
                                            Telex:
                                              46437-DIRBUN-IA
                                              46532-DIRBUN-IA
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Bank BNI,  BDN, BRI, BBD, RDB Central Java,
RDB East Java, RDB North Sumatera,  Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, BCA and
BUN, or by Bank BNI,  BDN,  BRI,  BBD,  RDB Central Java, RDB East
Java, RDB North Sumatera, Bank  Niaga,  Bank  Duta, BCA and BUN on
behalf of the Borrower under  the  Loan Agreement, may be taken or
executed by its President  Director,  or  by  such other person or
Page  8
persons as their Board  of  Managing  Directors shall designate in
writing, and Bank BNI, BDN,  BRI,  BBD, RDB Central Java, RDB East
Java, RDB North Sumatera, Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, BCA and BUN shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient  evidence  of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                        BANK NEGARA INDONESIA 1946
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                        BANK DAGANG NEGARA
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                        BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                        BANK BUMI DAYA
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                        RDB CENTRAL JAVA
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                        RDB EAST JAVA
Page  9
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                        RDB NORTH SUMATERA
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                        BANK NIAGA
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                        BANK DUTA
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                        BANK CENTRAL ASIA
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                        BANK UMUM NASIONAL
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   Sub-loans shall have a maximum  repayment period of 12 years,
including a  grace  period,  if  any,  and  interest  rate  at the
prevailing  market  rate   for   similar   lending  operations  in
Indonesia.
2.   No expenditures for goods,  civil  works or services required
for an Investment Project shall  be  eligible for financing out of
the proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank  and  such  expenditures shall have been made
not earlier than ninety days prior  to  the date on which the Bank
shall have received the application and information required under
paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a  free-limit  Sub-loan   for   which   the  Bank  has  authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety  days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received  the request and information required
under paragraph 4 (b) of  this  Schedule  in respect of such free-
Page  10
limit Sub-loan. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, for the
purposes of the Loan  Agreement  and  this Agreement, a free-limit
Sub-loan shall represent  the  investment  portion of the Sub-loan
being financed out of  the  proceeds  of  the Loan which shall not
exceed, when added to  any  other  outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the Loan for
investments   under   the   same   Investment   Project,  $210,000
equivalent; provided, further that the first two Sub-loans made or
proposed to be  made  by  each Participating Financial Institution
being a party  to  this  Agreement,  regardless  of their amounts,
shall be subject to the Bank's approval.
3.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Bank BNI, BDN, BRI,
BBD, RDB of Central Java, RDB of East Java, RDB of North Sumatera,
Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, BCA and  BUN shall not make any Sub-loan in
an amount: (a) below the  equivalent  of $56,000 and (b) exceeding
the equivalent of $525,000,  or  in  an  amount which would exceed
such limit when added to  the  amount  of all other Sub-loans made
for the same Investment Project  out  of the proceeds of the Loan;
provided, however,  that  the  amount  representing  the permanent
working capital shall not exceed 40% of the Sub-loan.
4.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for  approval,  Bank  BNI, BDN, BRI, BBD, RDB of
Central Java, RDB of East Java, RDB of North Sumatera, Bank Niaga,
Bank Duta, BCA and BUN  shall  furnish to the Bank an application,
in  a  form  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  together  with:  (i)  a
description of the Investment  Enterprise  and an appraisal of the
Investment Project, including  a  description  of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of  the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the
proposed terms  and  conditions  of  the  Sub-loan,  including the
schedule of amortization of  the  Sub-loan; (iii) an environmental
impact analysis of the  Investment  Project together with a survey
to identify existing  environmental  impact and proposed solutions
to ameliorate such impact; and  (iv) such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request by Bank BNI,  BDN, BRI, BBD, RDB of Central
Java, RDB of East Java,  RDB  of  North Sumatera, Bank Niaga, Bank
Duta, BCA and BUN for  authorization  to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account in respect  of  a  free-limit Sub-loan shall contain:
(i) a summary  description  of  the  Investment Enterprise and the
Investment Project, including  a  description  of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of  the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii)
the terms and conditions  of  the Sub-loan, including the schedule
of amortization therefor.
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1994.
5.   Sub-loans shall be made on  terms whereby Bank BNI, BDN, BRI,
BBD, RDB of Central Java, RDB of East Java, RDB of North Sumatera,
Bank Niaga,  Bank  Duta,  BCA  and  BUN  shall  obtain, by written
contract with the  Investment  Enterprise  or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to  protect the interests of the Bank
and the relevant  Participating  Financial Institution, including,
in the case of any Sub-loan the right to:
     (a)  require  the  Investment  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and  in  accordance  with  sound  technical,  financial, economic,
managerial  and  environmental  standards  and  practices,  and to
maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods, civil works and services to
be financed out of the proceeds  of the Loan shall be purchased at
a reasonable price,  account  being  taken  also of other relevant
factors  such  as,  in  the  case  of  goods,  time  of  delivery,
reliability and availability  of  maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the  case  of civil works and services, of
their quality and the  competence  of  the parties rendering them;
Page  11
and (ii)  such  goods,  civil  works  and  services  shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank, if the Bank shall  so request, such goods, works, plants
and constructions and installations, as  the case may be, included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i)  the  Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business  practice;  and  (ii)  without  any  limitation  upon the
foregoing, such  insurance  shall  cover  hazards  incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to  the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the  Investment  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as  the Bank or the relevant
Participating  Financial  Institution   shall  reasonably  request
relating to the  foregoing  and  to the administration, operations
and financial conditions of  the  Investment Enterprise and to the
benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; and
     (f)  suspend  or  terminate  the   right  of  the  Investment
Enterprise to the use of the  proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise  to  perform  its obligations under its
contract with the relevant Participating Financial Institution.
6.   Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  to qualify for
obtaining a Sub-loan, an Investment Enterprise shall demonstrate:
     (a)  that  it  is  engaged   in  the  manufacturing  industry
subsector and/or  the  agro-based  industry  subsector, or related
services therein, (including transportation and cold storage);
     (b)  that it employs between 20 and 150 full-time employees;
     (c)  that  it  has  operating   assets  (excluding  land  and
inventories) of less than $500,000 equivalent; and
     (d)  that the Investment  Project  for  which the Sub-loan is
being requested shall:
          (i)  be financed by not less  than 20% of its total cost
               from  the   own   resources   of   such  Investment
               Enterprise;
         (ii)  have a financial rate  of  return  of not less than
               the rate applicable  for  three  months deposits by
               the respective  Participating Financial Institution
               granting the Sub-loan; and
        (iii)  satisfy  environmental  guidelines  and regulations
               existing in Indonesia.
Provided, however, that  the  requirements  under  paragraph 5 (d)
(ii) of  this  Schedule  shall  not  apply  to Investment Projects
financed by a free-limit Sub-loan.
7.   Without any limitation  to  the  provision  of paragraph 4 of
this Schedule, in those cases  where the Investment Enterprise has
been provided by LPPI with  technical  assistance under Part B (i)
of the Project, the  Participating Financial Institution financing
the Investment Project  resulting  from  such technical assistance
shall, at the request of  LPPI,  enter  into an agreement with the
Investment Enterprise to withhold  from  the  proceeds of the Sub-
loan the cost of such  technical assistance for purposes of making
it available to LPPI.
Page  12
8.   Without any limitation  to  the  provision  of paragraph 4 of
this Schedule,  the  Participating  Financial  Institution being a
party to  this  Agreement  undertake  to  avail  themselves in the
processing of Sub-loan  approval  and authorization application of
the technical assistance to be provided by the Appraisal Advisor.
9.   Without limitation to  the  provision  of  Section 2.05(b) of
this Agreement, the  Participating  Financial Institutions being a
party to this Agreement  shall  provide  the Appraisal Advisor all
such information as the Appraisal Advisor shall reasonably request
concerning  the  sub-loans,  the  Investment  Enterprises  and the
Investment Projects.
