Ducmoks ad
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6334
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK (INDEBANK)
(LOAN 1610-MAI)
June 27, 1986
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00       - MK 1.60
MK 1.00       - US$.62
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        - African Development Bank
ADMARC     - Agricultural Development and Harketing Corporation
CDC        - Commonwealth Development Corporation
DEG        - Deutsche Eutnickhungsgesellschaft (German Finance Company for
Investments in Developing Countries)
EEC        - European Economic Country
EIB        - European Investment Bank
FMO        - Nederlandse Financierings Maatschappi Voor - UutwicKeling
Sladen (Netherlands Finance Company for Developing Countries)
IFC        - International Finance Corporation
INDEBANK   - Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited
MIC        - Malawi Development Corporation
SSE        - Small Scale Enterprises
Fiscal Year
Government of Malawi : April 1   - March 31
INDEBANK              : January 1 - December 31



p.
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OVidC nd Diiwc-.CowalI
June 27, 1986
MEMORANDLUM TO TE.E EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
St'BJECT: Project Completion Report: Malawi - Investment and Development
Bank (INrDEBANK)  (Loan 1610-MAI)
Attached, fo- information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion ReDort:  M'alawi - Investment and Development Bank
(INDEBA1K) (Loan 1610-MAI)" prepared bv the Eastern and Southern Africa
Regional Office. Under the modified system for proj ct performance
auditing further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation
Department has not been made.
.p
This document has a restricted distnrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offic:ai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFML4IL US  ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK (INDEBANK)
(LOAN 1610-MAI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .....................................................             ...........
BASIC DATA SHEET ..................    .................  .............                       ii
HIGHLIGHTS .................................................................                  i
I.      INTRODUCTION . .....................1........ ,
Background ........     ............................. ................       1
Project Objectives and World Bank Group Role .           ..............      3
II.    MACROECONOMIC, INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES ..................                   3
III. THE INSTITUTION .......................6
IV.    ALLOCATION OF THE LOAN .....          .........................................        11
V.      OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ...............................                 12
VI.     CONCLUSIONS ................................................................          15
Annexes
1.     List of Subrrojects Financed under Loan 1610-MAI              .17
2.      Economic Characteristics of Subprojects Financed under Loan 1610-MAI                  18
3.      Financial Characteristics of Subprojects Financed under Loaa 1610-MAI                 19
4.      Analysis of Loan Approvals as of June 30, 1983 .                                      20
5.      Comparison of Projected and Actual Operations 1978-1982 .21
6.      Analysis of Equity Portfolio as of December 31, 1983              .22
7.      Summary Description and Present Status of Subprojects Financed under
Loan 1610-MAI ......23
8.      Projected and Actual Income Statements (1978-1982) .26
9.      Projected and Actual Balance Sheets (1978-1982) .27
0.      Projected and Actual Sources and Uses of Funds (1978-1982) .28
Projected and Actua'l Financial Ratios (1976-1982) .29
2.      Schedule of Estimated vs. Actual Disbursements   .           .30
3.     Coments Received from Borrower .............................. - ...... .               31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI: INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK
(LOAN 1610-MAI)
PREFACE
This report presents an evaluation of Loan 1610-MAI tc the
Investment and Development Bank of Malawi (INDEBANK). The loan was
approved in July 1978, declared effective in November 1978. Disbursemex.ts
were closed in December 1983.
The Bank's Eastern and Southern Africa Regional office has
prepared this report on the basis of information gathered during missions
to Malawi in 1984. The report presents a factual review of INDEBANK's use
of the loan proceeds and of its institutional developments over the past
six years.
In accord,.nce with the revised project performance reporting
procedures this report has been read in the Operations Evaluation Depart-
ment (OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff. The draft
Completion Report was sent to the Borrower for comments. The Borrower's
comments have been taken into account in finalizing the report and are
reproduced as Annex 13.



- i.i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAU-WI (INDEBANK)
Loan 1610-MAI
BASIC DATA SHEET
(Amounts ii' US $ Million)
As of
January 31, 1986
Original   Disbuised   Cancelled       Repaid   Outstanding
Loan No.1610-MAI    3.0           2.76        .24           1.39        1.37
Cumulative Disbursements
1979     1980      1981      1982     1983      1984
Fiscal Year
Ti)   Estimated             .18      .45      2.78       3.0      3.0       3.0
(ii)  Actual                0         0        .93      1.37      2.72      2.76
(iii) (ii) as X of (i)      0         0      33        46        91        92
Project Data
Original Loan Dates    Actual/Revised
Board Apora.al                            07/06/78             07/06/78
Loan Agreement                            07/07/78             07/07/78
Effectiveness                             11/01/78             11/01/78
Completion of Commitments                 12/31/81             04/05/82
Loan Closing                              07/01/83             07/01/83
Mission Data
No. of   No. of    Staff
Month/Year    Weeks   Pe-sons   Weeks   Date of Report
Appraisal           11/77         2.5        2        5.0       05/03/78
Supervision 1       12/78          .5        1       0.5        01/22/79
Supervision 2       07/79         1.5        2       3.0        09/06/79
Supervision 3       03/80         1.0        2       2.0        04/09/80
Supervision 4       09/80         1.7        1        1.7       10/02/80
Supervision 5       04/81         1.0        1        1.0       04/28/81
Appraisal 1/        03/82         1.7        3        5.1       07/07/82
Supervisio7n 6      10/83         1.0        1        1.0       10/26/83
1/  'NDEBANK was appraised for a second Bank loan in March 1982; processing
of the loan was, however, dropped on the Government of Malawi's request
(para. 1.06).



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLiTION REPORT
MALAWI: INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK (INDEBANK)
Loan 1610-MAI
HIGHLIGHTS
The Investment and Development Bank (INDEBANK) was appraised for
the first Bank loan in November 1977, and a line of credit in the amount of
US$3.0 million was approved in July 1978. The line of credit provided
INDEBANK with foreign exchange resources to finance part of its investments
in medium and large scale projects in the industrial, agricultural and
tourism sectors. The Bank had proposed to include in the loan to INDEBANK
a component of US$1.0 million for financing small scale enterprises
(SSEs). The component was dropped from the project after negotiations on
request of the Malawi Government (para. 1.03).
At the time of appraisal INDEBANK had several weaknesses: its
professional staff lacked experience, it had not established appropriate
operational procedures, the quality of its appraisals needed to be
improved, and project supervision was uncoordinated and weak. INDEBANK
made good progress in correcting most of these weaknesses during the period
of project implementation. It has st.reamlined its policies; the overall
quality of project appraisals has improved; through staff recruitment and
training, INDEBANK has developed a cadre of well trained, Malawian
professional staff that is increasingly gaining experience and has
substantially reduced the need for expatriate staff assistance. However,
INDEBANK still has to overcome weaknesses in two main areas--a weak project
promotion capability and inadequate evaluation of the economic impact of
the projects it finances (paras. 3.08-3.09 and 6.03).
INDEBANK's levels of operations during the project implementation
period were about 20% below levels estimated at appraisal primarily due to
sluggish growth in the Malawian economy and a decline in investment
activities of Press Holdings Limited, Malawi Development Corporation (MDC)
and the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), which
until three years ago invested in most projects in cooperation with
INDEBANK. Its overall financial performance closely matches appraisal
forecasts. INDEBANK's financial performance and the quality of its
portfolio remain very good despite a generally deteriorating industrial
sector environment (paras. 5.08-5.09).
Other points of interest are:
- Trends in the Malawian economy and in the industrial sector
(paras. 2.01-2.06)
- INDEBANK's Small Scale Enterp ise Lending Operations
(para, 5.04)
- Implementation Performance under the Bank ioan (para. 3.08)
- Performance of projects financed under the loan (Annex 6)



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK (INDEBANK)
(LOAN 1610-MAI)
I. INTRODUCTION
Background
1.01      The Inv  4ment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited (INDEBANK)
was established .. December 1972 as a private limited liability company
under Malawi's Companies Act. It is owned 22.25X each by the Agricultural
Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC), the German Finance Company for Inivestments
in Developing Countries (DEG), the Netherlands Finance Company for
Developing Countries (FMO), and .1% by the International Finance
Corporation (IFC). Its basic objective is to promote the economic
development of Malawi by providing finance and other services to viable
projects in the productive sectot. of the economy.
1.02      The World Bank Group's involvement wich INDEBANK began in 1976
when INDEBANK management asked IFC to make an equity investment in INDEBANK
and about ttie same time requested a World Bank line of credit. An IFC
mission visited Malawi in October 1976 to assess possibilities of
participation in INDEBANK's equity and in December 1976 a Bank mission
discussed with Malawian authorities INDEBANK's potential role in the
industrial sector and its financial requirements. Following an exchange of
letters between the Bank and INDEBANK management, the Bank agreed to send a
mission to review INDEBANK's organization, role and resource needs.
1.03      A Bank mission appraised INDEBANK in November 1977 (Appraisal
Report No.1914a-MAI) and recommended a line of credit of US$4.5 million to
INDEBANK consisting of: (i) US$4.C million for financing part of its
investments in medium and large scale industrial, agro-iniustrial and
tourism projects and, (ii) a component of US$0.5 million for financing
small scale enterprise (SSE) projects. During loan negotiations, INDEBANK
indicated that it expected to obtain a second line of credit from the
European Investment Bank (EIB), and as the terms of the EIB loan were
expected to be more attractive than those of the proposed Bank loan, the
amount of the loan earmarked for medium and large scale enterprises was
reduced at INDEBANK's request from US$4.0 million to US$3.0 million while
the amount for small-scale enterprises was, at that time doubled to S1.0
million.
1.04      Following loan negotiations, however, INDEBANK's foreign
shareholders and the Government of Malawi expressed doubts on the
suitability of INDEBANK as a channel for financing SSEs. The Government
requested that the SSE component be deleted from the project and that a
separate, possibly nation-wide SSE project be considered for financial
assistance laterl/. The Bank agreed to these changes and a line of credit
of US$3 million was approved on July 6, 1978, signed on July 7, 1978 and
1/  In 1981 the Government of Malawi, with assistance from the European
Economic Community (EEC), established the Small Scale Enterprise
Development Organization of Malawi (SEDOM) to provide financial and
technical assistance to SSEs (para. 2.06).



- 2 -
became effective less than four months later on November 1, 1978.
Concurrent to approval of the Bank loan, the Board of Directors of the
Corporation approved an IFC investment in 500,000 INDEBANK shares woith
US$562,000 equivalent and IFC took a seat on the Board of Directors. The
Bank loan was made to INDEBANK at an interest rate of 7-1/2% p.a. and would
be repayable in accordance with a schedule conforming substantially to the
aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to the subloans. The
maximum repayment period was set at 17 years. INDEBANK agreed to on-lend
the proceeds of the loan at interest rates varying between 10-1/2% and 11%
p.a. The foreign exchange risk wouli be borne by the subborrowers. Other
important features of the loan includad an individual subproject free limit
of US$100,000 with an aggregate free limit of $750,000. To ensure that the
proceeds of the loan would be utilized to finance as many projects as
possible the maximum size of subloan to a single subproject to be financed
under the Bank line of credit was set at MK600,000 (about US$770,000).
INDEBANK agreed to maintain a consolidated debt to equity ratio not
xceeding 4:1. The recruitment of expat iates for the positions of
Controller of Project Investigations and Project Investigation Manager and
five Malaw-.an nationals to be trained for positions in INDEBANK's
technical, monitoring and accounting departments were set as conditions of
effectiveness of the loan.
1.05      Due to availability of resources from other sources 2/, the pace
of utilization of the Bank loan was initially slower than anticipated at
appraisal. By December 1980, about two years after loan effectiveness,
commitments amounted to US$1.3 million and disbursements to US$0.9
million--50% of both commitment and disbursement levels estimated at
appraisal, Subsequerntly however, commitments and disbursements picked up
and by the subproject submission deadline--of December 31, 1981 about 84%
of the loan amount had been committed; 91% of the amount had been disbursed
by the closing date of July 30, 1983.  Due to delays in the implementation
of a project approved for financing under the loan, and as a result of some
subprojects having been implemented in full at less cost than estimated at
appraisal, a toLal of US$235,000 remained undisbursed and was eventually
cancelled (para. 3.08). In March 1982, following a request from both
INDEBANK and Government, the Bank appraised INDEBANK for a second line of
credit. During the course of appraisal however, INDEBANK indicated it was
seeking a loan from the African Development Bank (ADB); the ADB loan was
expected to be on more favorable terms than those of the proposed loan.  On
request from INDEBANK and the Government of Malawi, the Bank stopped
processing of the loan. In 1984, INDEBANK requested a follow-up line of
credit. A second World Bank loan to INDEBANK was appraised in
February/March 1985 and is under processing.
2/ INDEBANK had a credit from the European Investment Bank (EIB). Due to
a relatively short period (2+ years) over which the line of credit had
to be disbursed, INDEBANK gave priority to the utilization of EIB
resources.



-3-
Project objectives and World Bank Group Role
1.06      The main objectives o. the loan were to: (i) provide the Bank
Group the opportunity to participate actively in the development of
Malawi's industrial sector by providing INDEBANK with resources for
fi:tancing part of its investments in industries, agro-industrial,
agricultural, tourism and other productive projects; and (ii) build
INDEBANK into an effective and efficient institution through helping it to:
(a) improve its operational policies and financial strategy, (b) reinforce
its strategy to be a more aggressive and promotionally oriented
institution, (c) recruit and train Malawian professional staff and, (d)
rationalize and consolidate its appraisal and supervision procedures. The
main objectives of the project have substantially been met (para. 6.0).
1.07      In addition to providing INDEBANK with resources through an IFC
equity investment (para. 1.04) and a line of credit, the World Bank Group
played a significant role in strengthening INDEBANK's institutional
capabilities. In line with World Bank recommendations, INDEBANK
strengthened its capabilities by recruiting expatriate, Malawian
professional staff and by increasing its staff training efforts. Through
the rcview of project proposals submitted to the Bank for financing under
the line of credit, the Bank assisted INDEBANK in improving its project
appraisal capabilities, although further improvement in this area is still
required (para. 3.07 (ii)). The IFC repre3entative on the INDEBANK Board
of Directors has played an important role in helping Whe institution
develop suitable investment policies and improve its financial performance.
II. MACROECONOMIC, INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES
Introduction
2.01      Malawi is a small, densely populated country with moderately
fertile soils, good water resources and climate favorable to crop
production. At the time of independence in 1964, its economy was
characterized by surplus labor, a lack of capital, technology, skilled
labor and managerial talent. Being landlocked, Malawi depends on other
countries for access to the sea. Since independence, Malawi has pursued a
set of objectives aimed at achieving sustained economic development. These
objectives, set out in the Statement of Development Policies in 1977
includa: (i) increasing agricultural productivity to improve rural living
standards, provide employment opportunities and earn foreign exchange, (ii)
encouraging growth of industrial activity based on local resources, (iii)
achieving a better geographical balance in economic de-velopment within the
country, (iv) increasing local participation in skilled employment,
management and ownership of enterprise and, (v) elimination of dependence
on foreign finance to cover government recurrent budget expenditures.
2.02      As a strategy for pursuing these objectives, the Government of
Malawi has opted for an open market, export-oriented growth based on
agriculture and agro-based manufacturing. This strategy is reflected in
the Government's policies toward the agricultural and manufacturing sectors
as well as i-' the treatment of domestic and foreign investment. In order
to attract foreign capital, Government policy has encouraged the



-4-
establishment of an open, market-oriented economy with the private sector
as the primary engine of economic growth. The role of public enterprises
has been that of investment partners with private sector entities and has
been focussed on few key sectors. Public investment, particularly through
the MDC and ADMARC, has been intended primarily to support private
initiatives in the productive sectors through provision of essential
infrastructure, public utilities and supporting services, Relatively low
tariffs and judicious use of quantitative restrictions on imports have
prevented the emergence of inefficient local import substituting industries
so characteristic of many other developing countries. The Government has
also deliberately kept wages at market-determined levels, thus encouraging
the establishment of labor-intensive manufacturing firms and agricultural
estates.
2.03      The Malawi Government has, in the last 20 years, demonstrated
determination in pursuit of its development objectives and has had an
impressive record of success. Real GDP and per capita income grew at an
average rate of 5.5% p.a. and 3.0% p.a. respectively, during the period
1967-79. Despite this impressive growth rate, the Malawian economy,
increasingly dependent on three primary commodity exports--tobacco, tea and
sugar--remains highly vulnerable to international price fluctuations. The
country has experienced periodic balance of payments disequilibria since
1974 due to: (a) cyclical swings in export prices of tobacco, tea and
sugar, (b) rapid escalation in import prices, especially of fuel,
intermediate and capital goods and (c) increasing costs of trnasport for
both exports and imports due to rising freight charges, port congestion in
Mozambique, and disruptions of the overland route. Balance of payments
problems became severe between 1978 and 1981. Due to reduced agricultural
export volumes and large imports of food stuffs following a drought in the
early 1980s; and due to an increase in the petroleum import bill, Malawi's
trade balance deteriorated rapidly and overall growth of the economy
declined. GDP growth which had averaged 5.5% p.a. up to 1979 fell to 2.0%
in 1980 and to -0.3% in 1981.  GDP gtowth resumed at 2.6% in 1982 and moved
to 4.3% in 1983.
2.04      While Malawi's economic difficulties in the past six years were
primarily caused by the drought, the deterioration in the country's balance
of trade and transport bottlenecks, the crisis also revealed structural
weaknesses in the economy, notably: (i) the heavy reliance on three
agricultural commodities produced by large estates, (ii) the slow growth of
smallholder production for export, and (iii) the modern sector's dependence
on costly imported oil, and the progressive depletion of domestic fuelwood
resources; (iii) the deteriorating financial position of public enterprise;
(iv) a growing imbalance between government recurrent and capital
expenditures and (v) rigidities in the system of administered prices and
wages. In order to tackle these problems, the Government, in consultation
with the Bank and the IMF, formulated a medium-term program covering the
period 1981-1986. The Government's major objectives during this period
include: (i.) a real GDP growth rate of 4.8%; (ii) diversifi-
cation of foreign exchange earnings by developing new smallholder and
estate crops, accelerating growth of smallholder export crop, livestock and
forestry I dustries, (iii) expanding industries based on local resources
especially agro-processing; and (iii) improvement in the financial



- 5 -
performance of the Government and public enterprises to reduce dependence
on external resources and domestic borrowings. The policies for achieving
these objectives were incorporated in a comprehensive structural adjustment
program supported by IMF stand-by arranger4ents in 1979, late 1980 and 1982
an EFF in 1983, and two IBRD Structural Adjustment lending operations
approved in 1981 and 1983.
The Manufacturing Sector
2.05       Trends in Malawi's manufacturing sector in the past two decades
are largely similar to those in the whole economy. From independence in
1964 through the late 1970s manufacturing activity in Malawi was buoyant.
Starting from a very low level, manufacturing activity grew rapidly at an
average rate of over 10% p.a. or twice the rate of GEP growth during
1970-78, bringing the sector's GDP share to around 12%. Initially, food,
beverages, and the processing of tea and tobacco crops accounted for the
bulk of manufacturing operations, but over the years the range of goods
produced expanded to include textiles, footwear, packaging materials.
pharmaceuticals, and wood and metal products.  The general setback in the
Malawian economy that started after 1978 reversed the trend of growth in
the sector. Growth of manufacturing activity which averaged 10% p.a.
during the 1970s, declined to an average rate of 6.7% p.a. during the
period 1979-1983. Employment in manufacturing hab shown a similar reverLal
of the trend. The growth of employment in industry, which averaged about
6% p.a. through 1980, started to decline after 1981. As a a result, the
sector's share in total wage employment dropped from about 12% in 1980 to
about 9% in 1982. The decline in manufacturing sector growth is attributed
to the same factors that have caused a general setback in the whole
economy--deterioration in balance of trade, transportation bottlenecks,
droughts and structural weaknesses in the economy that continue to hinder
recovery. The Government's main objectives in the industrial sector are
to: (i) encourage and promote private investment, (ii) accelerate growth of
an c.xport-oriented industrial base as opportunities for import-substitution
diminish, and (iii) develop indigenous Malawian entrepreneurship.
2.06       In response to the economic crisis, the Government, has in the
past few years taken some policy decisions such as price control, tightened
foreign exchange control and increases in company tax and import tariffs
which could slow down recovery in industrial activity. Overall, however,
Malawi's industrial policies remain relatively sound. Measures for
addressing some of the policy weakness are being handled in the conte:t of
the Bank's SAL Operations in Malawi.
The Financial Sector
2.07       Malawi's financial sector consists of: (i) the Reserve Bank of
Malawi which plays the usual role o' a central bank, (ii) two commercial
banks - The National Bank of Malawi (NBM) and the Commercial Bank of Malawi
(CBM), (iii) a development bank, INDEBANK, (iv) a housing finance company -
th3 New Building Society (NBS), (v) two insurance companies - the National
Insurance Corporation (NIC) and Old Mutual, (vi) the Post Office Savings
Bank (POSB), and (vii) Mercantile Credit Limited, a small private
institution predominantly engaged in hire purchase financing. Two



.
-6-
statutory bodies, MDC and ADMARC and the quasi-public corporatioi--Press
Holdings-- make equity investments in a broad range of economic activities.
The financial institutions, especially the commercial banks have played a
major role in resource mobilization. Domestic saving rose from 4% of GDP
in 1967 to 17% in 1979, increasing the share of investment financed from
domestic resources to about 60%.
2.08      Interest rates in Malawi have been revised upwards fairly
regularly over the past five years to take into account trends in the rate
of inflation and to regulate credit. The Central bank discount rate was
raised from 8% to 10% p.a. in 1980 but has remained unchanged since then.
Lending and deposit rates on the other hand were revised in 1979, 1980 and
more recently in May 1983. Commercial bank lending rates range from a
minimum of 11-1/2% p.a. on loans to the agricultural sector to a maximum of
16-1/2 p.a. for loans to other sectors. Minimum rates charged by the New
Building Society vary from 13.75% for residential housing mortgages to
17.75% p.a. on mortgages for commercial properties. INDEBANK charges a
minimum of 12% on medium and long term loan to agricultural enterprises and
on loans denominated in foreign currencies, and up to a maximum of 16-1/2%
p.a. on local currency loans for various other activities with an inflation
rate of around 10%, interest rates in Malawi were positive throughout the
project implementation period.
III. THE INSTITUTION
3.01      During the course of appraisal, loan negotiations and project
implementation, the following issues were discussed with INDEBANK and
Malawian authorities. Issues relating to INDEBANK procedures are discussed
in para. 3.07.
(i) Management and Staffing: At the time of appraisal in 1978,
INDEBANK's expatriate General Manager was due to leave the
following year upon expiration of his contract. To ensure
that a replacement would be recruited in time so as to avoid
potential management succession problems, the appraisal
mission recommended that the identification of a suitable
candidate to replace the departing General Manager be made a
condition of Board Presentation of the project. At
negotiations, the Bank was informed that INDEBANK, under
Government's recommendation, had appointed a Malawian
General Manager designate who would succeed the expatriate
General Manager at the end of his contract. The appraisal
mission had also found that although INDEBANKVs professional
staff was of good quality with solid academic backgrounds,
it was insufficient in number and still inexperienced. Five
of the ten professional staff had been with INDEBANK for



-7-
less than six months. In order to strengthen INDEBANK's
professional staff capabilities, agreement was reached at
negotations that INDEBANK would recruit: (a) an expatriate
Controller of Project Investigations, (b) an expatriate
Project Investigation Manager to assist in the
identification and appraisal of projects, and (c) five
suitably qualified Malawian nationals to be trained in
project identification, promotion and appraisal and in
accounting. The recruitment of suitably qualified people,
in consultation with the Bank,was set as a condition of
effectiveness of the Bank loan.
(ii) Treatment of Income Notes: In addition to the subscribed
share capital, INDEBANK shareholders had agreed to provide
additional resources to INDEBANK in the form of income
notes. Under the Finance and Cooperation Agreement between
the Government and the shereholders, the income notes which
were unsecured, convertible into ordinary shares at the
option of the holders are to be repaid (in instalments or in
a lump sum) by the year 2020. INDEBANK considered these
income notes to be quasi-equity, and proposed to treat them
as equity for purposes of determining an appropriate
debt/equity ratio for the institution. During negotations,
however, it was agreed that the income notes would be
treated ap borrowings for the purposes of calculating the
debt/equity ratio.
(iii) Financial Covenants: The Loan Agreement between INDEBANK
and the Bank included several principal financial covenants:
(a) under section 4.10 INDEBANK agreed to limit its total
financial assistance (in the form of loans and/or equity
investments) to any one individual legal entity to a maximum
of 25% of INDEBANK's unimpaired share capital plus general
accumulated reserves. However, it was agreed that INDEBANK
could, in consultation with the Bank exceed this limit ia
the case of projects sponsored by the Government and
considered to be of national importance, provided that the
repayment of principal and interest of the portion of such
loan in excess of the 25% limit would be fully guaranteed by
the Government. During the course of project implementation
INDEBANK requested an amendment to section 4.10 of the Loan
Agreement to enable it to make investments in the form of
loans and/or equiLy in a single project up to 30% of
INDEBANK's networth. The Bank did not agree to the
requested amendment because: INDEBANK did not provide any
justification for it, there was no indication that the 25%
exposure limit had been a constraint to INDEBANK's
investment plans and an increase in the exposure limit to
30% of INDEBANK's net worth would lead to a significant and
unnecessary increase in risk exposure; (b) under section
4:11 of the Loan Agreement INDEBANK agreed not to make
equity investments in any enterprise if the total amount of
such investments would exceed INDEBANK's unimpaired paid-in



share capital plus general accumulated reserves. In 1982
INDEBANK requested an amendment to the Loan Agreement to
increase the aggregate limit for equity investments up to
120% of networth, As INDEBANK's equity portfolio was of
high quality and profitable, the Bank agreed to this request
and section 4.11 of the Loan Agreement was amended
accordingly. The Loan Agreement included three other
financial covenants to which INDEBANK agreed: (a) not to
distribute dividends exceeding 75% of its after tax profit
in any one year, in order to build up an adequate general
reserve; (b) to make sufficient provisions to cover the risk
arising out of doubtful investments; (c) maintain a
consolidated debt/equity ratio not exceeding 4:1 and; (d)
take the necessary measures to protect itself against
foreign exchange risk on foreign currencies used in its
operations. INDEBANK complied with these covenants.
Developments During Project Implementation and Present Status
3.02      Management.  From the time of its establishment in 1972 until
mid-'379, INDEBANK was headed by Mr. G. Raynor, an expatriate General
Manager provided by CDC, one of the institution's shareholders. Under his
leadership, INDEBANK achieved a solid reputation and a strong financial
base. At the end of Mr. Raynor's contract in September 1979, Mr. Lawrence
Anthony, a Malawian national previously General Manager of the Reserve Bank
of Malaw;. was appointed INDEBANK's General Manager. The change in
management was accomplished without any major disruption in INDEBANK's
organization and operations. In a relatively short time, the new General
Manager provided effective leadership and expanded INDEBANK's role. In
addition to placing greater emphasis on INDEBANK's role in developing
projects of national importance jointly with several other Malawian
investment groups, Mr. Anthony played the key role in the establishment of
INDEFUND--an INDEBANK subsidiary set up in 1981 to promote the development
of Malawian owned small scale enterprises (para.5.04).
3.03      In recognition of his abilities, Mr. Anthony was appointed
General Manager of the much larger ADMARC and left INDEBANK in November
1982. Efforts to recruit a suitable Malawian national as his replacement
were unsuccessful and Mr. Jack Thompson, an expatriate who had joined
INDEBANK as Coordinator of Project Investigations was appointed General
Manager. His contract is due to expire in June 1986.
3.04      During the period of project implementation, INDEBANK also
experienced several changes in its middle level management. In line with
measures agreed with the Bank for strengthening its institutional
capabilities, INDEBANK recruited three senior expatriates to fill key
positions--the Coordinator of Project Investigations, the Supervision
Manager provided by FMO and the Agricultural Projects Investigation Manager
provided through German Technical Assistance. The Coordinator of Project
Investigations and the Supervision M-.rager left INDEBANK at the end of
their contracts in 1981. Although INDEBANK recognized the key role played
by these expatriates, it was slow in recruiting suitable replacements to
fill these positions. This was one of the most important issues that



-9-
emerged during implementation of the loan.  The position of Coordinator of
Project Investigations 'ias been recently filled with an expatriate from the
Irish Development Agency, and the positions of Supervision Manager and
Agriculturai Projects Investigation Manager have been filled with senior
Malawian staff who has been with INDEBANK for several years.
3.05      Organization.  INDEBANK's organization is simple and has remained
unchanged since inception in 1972. It comprises of three divisions: (i)
the Project Investigation Division which deals with the identification,
promotion and appraisal of projects; (ii) the Project Monitoring Division
which handles the implementation and supervision of projects and, (iii) the
Company Secretary's/Financial Controllers' Division which is responsible
for accounting, financial management, administrative and legal matters.
INDEBANK's organization is appropriate for its objectives and operations.
3.06      Staffing.  INDEBANK's professional staff has increased from 10 in
1977 to 24 at present including two expatriates. Three of the professional
staff are seconded to INDETRUST, and five to INDEFUND--INDEBANK's two
managed subsidiary companies.  Overall, the staff is of good quality.  The
majority of the staff have solid academic backgrounds. Thirteen of the 24
professional staff are university graduates with qualifications mostly in
either Economics, or Business Administration. The rest of the staff
possess junior college diplomas in banking and business studies and several
have obtained or are studying for professional qualifications in
accountancy. Although the majority of the staff have been with INDEBANK
for a relatively short period of four to five years, they have gained
considerable experience in their jobs and are highly productive. In order
to meet effectively the manpower requirements of its managed subsidiaries,
especially INDEFUND, as well as develop adequate professional staff to
manage its own operations, INDEBANK has recently hired a legal officer and
plans to recruit four additional project officers.
3.07      Staff Training.  INDEBANK became active in providing training to
its staff following the appointment of a Malawian General Manager in 1979.
Based on its operations forecasts INDEBANK prepares, each year, a
comprehensive three year staff recruitment and training plan. Staff
training ia INDEBANK has been relatively easy due to the solid academic
background possessed by the majority of the professional staff. As such,
emphasis is placed on on-the-job training. In addition, however, INDEBANK
sends its staff to selected overseas training programs. In the past five
years, four staff have been sent on post-graduate courses in financial
management and business admiriotration and four other staff have attended
short-term courses in project promotion and appraisal in the UK and USA.
INDEBANK provides financial support to its staff who are taking
correspondence courses for further qualifications in accountancy and
banking.
3.08.     Procedures
(i) Appraisals. At the time INDEBANK was appraised for the Bank
loan, the overall quality of its appraisal was unsatisfactory and needed to
be improved: project appraisals were prepared and presented in a



- 10 -
summarized, sketchy form and did not provide all the information collected
through the appraisal process. INDEBANK did not have capability to
evaluate the projects' technical aspects and depended exclusively on
outside engineering consultants or promotors' views; and it did not
evaluate the economic impact of the projects it financed. The Bank
recommended measures to address these weaknesses and during negoti.ations
INDEBANK agreed to: (a) hire two experienced expatriate managers to
strengthen project appraisal capabilities (para. 3.01) (i); (b) prepare an
appraisal manual establishing appropriate appraisal procedures and, (c)
carry out economic evaluation of projects it proposed to finance. The
overall quality of appraisals has improved over the past seven years.
INDEBANK now routinely calculates economic rates of return for all projects
it finances and covers in sufficient detail important aspects such as
projects' potential for creating employment and dependence on imported
inputs, and hence projects' reliance on foreign exchange.
(ii) Project Supervision. INDEBANK supervises the projects in
its portfolio regularly. During the course of project implementation,
however, Bank Supervision missions noted that INDEBANK did not have
standard supervision procedures. In order to simplify the supervision
function and improve the quality of supervision reports, Bank missions
recommended that INDEBANK prepare a project supervision manual establishing
standard supervision procedures. After a sonsiderable delay, due to
manpower constraints, INDEBANK prepared a sipervision manual in 1983.
INDEBANK submits reports on the performance of selected projects in the
portfolio to each Board meeting and seeks its Board's guidance on measures
for dealing with projects encountering problems. Overall, the supervision
reports are comprehensive and of high qulity.
(iii) Procurement and Disbursements. For the procurement of
major machinery and equipment items, INDEBANK requires project entities to
obtain at least three competitive quotations before suppliers are
selected. It also takes steps to ensure that borrowers obtain machinery
and equipment from the cheapest source while taking into account such
factors as machinery and equipment service support and quality
specifications of the project.
3.09      INDEBANK's equity and loan disbursements are made on the basis of
the investment program and the costs of each approved project, upon
presentation of invoices, once the sponsors' contributions have been fully
paid. In the majority of cases, payment is made directly to suppliers.
INDEBANK's procurement and disbursement procedures are adequate.
(iv) Audit. Since its establishment, INDEBANK's annual accounts
have been audited by Deloitte Haskins and Sells, a firm of international
repute. The audits are timely, comprehensive and satisfactory. INDEBANK
has complied with the reporting requirements agreed with the Bank: it
submits its audited accounts to the Bank within three to four months alter
the end of its fiscal year and also regularly submits quarterly reports on
its operations, portfolio and financial situation.



- 11 -
Implementation Performance Under Bank Loan
3.10       Due to availability of resources from other sources, the pace of
utilization of the Bank loan was slower than anticipated at appraisal. By
December 30, 1980 almost two years after loan effectiveness, commitments
amounted to only US$1.3 million and disbursements to US$0.9 million--about
half the commitment and disbursement levels anticipated at appraisal.
Subsequently, however, INDEBANK earmarked five projects to be financed
under the Bank loan and the commitments and disbursements picked up. By
December 31, 1981--the terminal date for subproject submission, about 84%
of the loan amount had been committed and the balance was committed four
months later. The loan was 91% disbursed at the time of the closing date
in July 1983 (Annex 12). It was not considered necessary to postpone the
closing date as disbursements were expected to be completed within the next
six months. Due to delays in the implementation of one of the projects
approved for financing under the loan, and as a result of some subprojects
having been completed at lower cost than estimated at appraisal, a total of
US$235,004 remained undisbursed six months following the closing date and
was eventually cancelled.
IV. ALLOCATION OF THE LOAN
4.01       The proceeds of the Bank loan were utilized to finance a total of
seven subprojects including: (i) six large and medium size subprojects,
all above the free limit, and (ii) one below free limit subproject (Annex
I). Another subloan was approved for a second below free limit subproject
but it was eventually cancelled as a result of a long delay in project
implementation. The size of the seven subloans ranged from S100,000 for a
corrugated roofing sheet manufacturing project to $673,557 for A propylene
bag manufacturing project. Most of the subloans carried an interest rate
of 12% p.a. for a term of ten years including a two-year grace period. The
foreign exchange risk is borne by the sub-borrowers. The present status of
these subprojects is described in Annex 7.
4.02       Economic and financial characteristics of the projects financed
under the Bank loan are summarized in Annexes 2 and 3 respectively. The
seven projects include an iron and steel foundry, a hotel, a propylene bag
manufacturing project, a local alcoholic beverage brewery, a polyester/
cotton textile mill, a corrugated iron sheet factory and a project for
manufacturing plastic crates for bottled drinks. Five of the seven
subprojects are located in Blantyre, Malawi's principal commercial and
industrial center and two are in Lilongwe, the capital city. Six of the
seven subloans financed under the loan were for the expansion and/or
modernization of existing projects; only one subloan was approved for a new
project. Total investment cost for the seven subprojects amounted to K28.7
million (about US$23 million) and ranged from K19.9 million (US$15.9
million) for the polyester/cotton fabrics manufacturing project to K600,000
(US$480,000) for the expansion of the corrugated iron roofing sheets
project. As a proportion of total investment cost per project, INDEBANK
financing ranged from 6% for the polyester/cotton fabric manufacturing
project to 66% for the local alcoholic beverages brewery project; and
averaged about 43% of total project cost, well below the 75% limit set in
INDEBANK's Policy Statement. Three of the seven subprojects--the iron and



,                              -~~~~~~~ 12 -
steel foundry whose production is based on scrap steel, a brewery which
processes alcoholic beverages from local ingredients and the hotel in
Lilongwe--are not import dependent. On the other hand, about 75% of the
raw material requirements of the other tour subprojects are imported. All
the six subprojects in operation produce exclusively for the local markets
The six subprojects which have been implemented, generated 461 new jobs at
an average investment cost per job of $49,000. The investment cost per job
ranged from $14,000 for a hotel project to $85,600 for the textile mill.
The foundry project, when completed is expected to create 15 new jobs at a
cost of $68,000 per job. The investment cost per job was high because the
investment in the six subprojects was mainly for expansion of existing
capacity which typically require only marginal increases in the labor
force.
4.03       Six of the seven subprojects financed under the Bank loan were
implemented on schedule and within costs estimated at appraisal. The
implementation of the seventh project, an iron and steel foundry, is about
two years behind schedule following a decision by a foreign company-one of
the original project promotors--not to participate in the project.
Implementation is currently underway and it is anticipated that the project
will be operational by June 1985. All six Bank financed subprojects that
are in operation are profitable (Annex 3).
V. OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
5.01      Operations.  Annex 4 gives a summary analysis of INDEBANK's loan
approvals from inception to June 30, 1983. During this period INDEBANK
approved 72 loans totalling K27.1 million (US$21.7 million) and equity
investments amounting to K4.9 million (US$3.9 million) in 20 companies.
Details of INDEBANK's equity investments are presented in Annex 6. In
terms of number, the majority of loans were between K200,000 and K50U,OUO,
and accounted for 35% of the amount approved. In terms of value however,
approvals were dominated by loans of between K500,U0O and Ki million; these
accounted for 42% of the total amount approved. Large-size loanas of over
one million accounted for only 1U% of the amount approved. In line with
INDEBANK's policy of limiting its total financial commitment in a single
project to a minimum of K100,000 except in exceptional circumstances, loans
of up to K100,000 accounted for only 2% of the total approved loan amount.
5.02       INDEBANK's loan approvals are diversified in terms of sectoral
distribution and cover a variety of economic activities notably
manufacturing, tourism, property development and construction, agriculture,
li,restock and agro-processing. Manufacturing represents the principal
economic activity for which loans were approved: 57% of the amount approved
was for manufacturing activities, mainly textile and chemical production.
Agriculture and livestock activities accounted for 17% of the amount
approved. Sixty percent of both the number and amount of loans were
approved for new projects; expansion projects accounted for 29% and 27%
of the number and value of loans approved respectively with the balance
representing loans for rehabilitation projects. In line with INDEBA±iK's
private sector orientation, about 90% of both the number and amount of



- 13 -
loans approved were for projects In the private sector; loans for public
sect'jr projects accounted for les than 10  of the number and amount of
loan approvals.
5.03      A summary of INDEBANK's actual operations during the loan
implementation period 1978-1982 and comparative data as forecast at the
time of appraisal are given in Annex 5. INDEBANK's total loan and equity
investment approvals grew from K4.6 millon in 1978 to K5.) million in 1980
and declined to K2.1 in 1982.   Approvals, commitments and disbursements
during the 5-year period 1978-1982 were on average 21X below levels
projected at appraisal. The decline in the volume of operations especially
during the last three years when actual approvals represented only about
302 of appraisal estimates, was due to two principal factors: (i) sluggish
growth in the Malawian econouy as a whole and especially in industrial
activity-over the last three years; and (ii) a sharp decline in new
investment activity by the major Malawian conglomerate companies--Press
Holdings, MDC and ADMARC--which, up to three years ago, either directly or
through their subsidiaries financed projects jointly with INDEIANK. Due to
liquidity and other operational problems investment activities especially
of Press Holdings and MDC have been severely curtailed.
5.04      Small Enterprise Activity.  In 1981 INDEBANK set up a subsidiary
company, INDEFUND Limited to provide financing for projects ranging In size
from K25,000--the maximum project size eligible for funding under the
Government SEDOM program (para. 2.07) to KlOO,000--the minimum loan size
allowed under INDEHANK's policies.  INOEFUND was established with a paid-in
share capital of K650,000, of which 62X is subscribed by INDEBANK and 38%
by FMO. As of December 31, 1984, it had approved 43 loans amounting to
K1.7 million of which Kl.1 million had already been disbursed.  The 43
loans were approved for a variety of activities--including construction,
manufacturing, agro-processing and printing and range in size from K17,000
to K64,000; the average loan size was K48,000.  The interest rates charged
by INDEFUND range from 12% to 15% p.a. the higher rate is charged on loans
to projects whose forecast financial performance demonstrates the projects'
ability to service debt at 15% p.a.  The majority of INDEFUND loans are for
a term o' 5 years including in most cases a 1 year grace period.
5.05      Portfolio.
Loans. As of December 31, 1983 INDEBANK's total portfolio
amounted to K21.5 million consisting of K16.8 million in loans and K4.7
million in equity investments. Manufacturing activities accounted for 53%
of the loan portfolio, agriculture and livestock for 17% and tourism--
mainly hotels for 14%. The remaining lb% is outstanding in various other
activities notably construction and engineering. In spite of difficult
economic conditions in Malawi in the past five years, INDEBANK has
maintained a very good arrears record. As of December 31, 1983, only three
projects involving 9% of the value of the loan portfolio were in arrears
of over three months. These arrears amounted to about 2% of loans
outstanding. Since inception, INDkBANK has rescheduled eight loans
involving about K3.4 million.



- 14 -
5.06      Althoug:i the projects in the loan portfolio have maintained a
very good debt service record as indicated by the low level of arrears, the
underlying quality of INDEBANK's portfolio is still of some concern because
of the portfolio's concentration in enterprises wlholly or partly owned by
Press Holdings, MDC, and ADMARC--Malawi's three largest holding companies.
As of June 30, 1983, about 5bX of INDEBANK's loan portfolio was in
enterprises wholly or partly owned by these  four companies; and as such as
2b% of 1NDEBANK's portfolio was in projects in which Press holdings is the
largest investor and an additional 13% in MDC projects, Although
individual loans are well secured, the overall safety of the portfolio will
continue to depend on these companies' financial performance and
condition. Except for ADMARC, these conglomerate companies have faced,
since 1980,serious financial and operational problems.  Risks associated
with the Press Group have lessened substantially, however, followilng a
major financial restructuring which has been recently implemented under the
Second Structural Adjustment Loan. In view of the potentially high risks
faced by the portfolio, INDEBANK has recently began to make provil;ons for
possible losses on the portfolio. Accumulated provisions made in the past
three years, amount to about 4% of the portfolio and are adequate.
Equity Investments
5.07      As of December 31, 1983 INDEBANK's equity portfolio amounted to
K4.72 million in 20 companies (Annex 6). Two of these companies are
non-profit making, wholly wned subs6d4aries of INDEBANK. INDETRUST
Limited provides pension a,l death benefit schemes for employees in Malawi
and Indetrust (Holdings) 1 mited holds investments on behalf of Indetrust
Limited.  INDIBANK's inve   *nt in the other 18 companies varies from
K62,000 in Southern BottlerL '.imited, a manufacturer of soft drinks to
K71,UU00 in the Ethanol Comp .y, a producer of a blend component tor motor
fuel. Overall, the equity portfolio is in very good condttion. As of
December 31, 1983, 14 companies (including the two non-profit INDEMANK
subsidiaries) were operating profitabiy; only three were unprofitable and
three were still under implementation. INDEBANK ownership in these
companies range from 2% of the soft drinks bottling company's share capital
to 10O% in the two non-profit making subsidiaries; in most cases INDEBANK
ownership is in the 15X-30% range. In addition to its equity holdings,
INDEBANK had made loans to these companies amounting K3.2 million. Ih 1983
INDEBA4K earned an excellent return of about 16.4% on average equity
portfolio.
Financial Performance and Condition
5.08      INDtLBANK's forecasted and actual income statements, balance
sheets, sources and uses of funds and financial ratios for 1978-1982 are
presented in Annexes 8, 9, 10 and 11. Due to a lower volume of operations
than anticipated at appraisal, income from loans was lower than previously
forecasted. This shortfall however, was, compensated by significantly
higher dividend income. Administrative expenses averaged an acceptable
2.3% of average tntal assets as compared to 1.3Z projected at appraisal.
Overall, INDEBANK's financial performance during the project implementation
period matched appraisal forecasts. Its return on average total assets and
return on equity averaged 1.7% and 6.0% respectively over the five year



- 15 -
period, about the levels estimated at appraisal. INDEBANK's 1982 net
profit after tax of K167,000 representing a 0.82 return on average total
assets and a modest 3.31 return on equity wag however substantially lower
than appraisal estimates due to large general provisions made during the
year.
5.09       INDEBANK maintained a sound liquidity position and an adequate
debt service capacity throughout the five year period; current ratio and
debt service coverage averaged 2.5 and 2.8 respectively. Its long-term
debt, equity ratio remained well below the 4:1 limit agreed with the Bank.
After a decline in 1982, INDEBANK's profitability has Improved in the past
two years. Net profit after tax for 1984 represented 8.1X and 1.5X of
average net worth and average total assets respectively up from 3.3X and
0.7X in 1982. With a current ratio of 2.7, debt service coverage of 2.9
and long-term debt equity ratio of 3.8:1 as of December 31, 1984,
INDEtANK's financial condition remains very good.
Resource Mobilization
'.10      Being a sound, well managed and fairly profitable institution,
INDEBANK enjoys a good reputation among bilateral and multilateral agencies
and has been successful in mobilizing suff±c4ent resources to finance its
operations.  In addition to MK4.5 million share capital, MK9.25 million in
income notes subscribed by its shareholders, and the World bank line of
credit, INDEBANK has raised about MKI5 million equivalent in loans from
EIB, ADB and CDC. These loans carry interest rates of around b% p.a. and
have an average maturity of 15 years. A second Bank loan to INDEBANK was
appraised in February/March 1985 and is under processing.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
6.01       Since its inception in 1972, INDEBANK has played a key role and
position in the development of Malawi's industrial sector. Over the years,
it has &stablished and maintained very good relationships with the
Government, Malawi's other financial sector entities, local development
4nstitutions, various external fitiancial ±nst4tutions, bilateral and
multilateral aid agencies. Despite several management changes since 1979,
INDEBANK is a well managed institution; its overall financial performance
and condition remain sound despite deteriorating conditions facing the
Malawian economy and the industrial sector in the last six years.
6.02       Implementation of the Bank loan under review progressed
relatively easily and the project's principal objectives of: (i) affording
the World Bank Group the opportunity to part'cipate in the development of
Malawi's industrial sector and, (ii) strerngthen INDEBANK's institutional
capabilities to enhance its important role, have substantially been met.
The line of credit to INDEBANK financed seven medium to large size projects
in manufacturing, agro-processing and tourism. Six of these projects have
been fully implemented and are operating profitab'y. Altogether the six
projects in operation generated 461 new jobs at an average investment cost
per job of S49,000.  Like elsewhere in the region, the average investment



- 16 -
cost per job was high because the investment was mainly for expansion of
existing capacity which typically require only marginal increases in the
labor force.
6.03      The Bank played an important role in helping to build INDEBANK
into a stronger and more efficient institution. Overall, INDEBANK was
receptive to Bank recommendations and advice during the implementation
period. During this period, it consolidated its policies, established and
implemented, to a large extent, adequate procedures and built up a solid
core of well trained Malawi staff.  ntowever, INDEBANK still has to overcome
weaknesses in the area of project promotion and evaluation of the economic
4mpact of the projects it finances. The proposed follow-up Bank Group
assistance would help INUEBANK overcome these weaknesses and further
strengthen its institutional capabilities to play a leading role in the
development of Malawi's industrial sector.



- 17 -
MALAWIW
List of &ftrojects F1num Uhder Loan 1610-MAI
9ubproject     Date        Amounkth l int
my,roj ect Wam                 ?.adber    Authorized  Aithoriad    DIbbirsed         nlled
1. Mblawi Iron and Steel Corporation    A-1          7/79      416,670.00    400,595.00    16,075.00
2. Ilami.e Hbtels Lmitad                A-2         10/79      769,230.00    673,551.00    95,679.00
3. Blantyre Nettirg Ccnpany Ltd.        A-3          7/81      151,160.00    151,160.00       -
4. Carlsburg Malawi Brewry Ltd.         A-4         11/81      400,000.00    400,000.00       -
5. alibku Products Ltd.                  -5         12/81      589,690.00    589,690.00       -
6. David Whitehead and Sors Ltd.        A-6          4/82      450,000.00    450,000.00       -
7. Presn Steel Irdustries Ltd.          B-1         12/78      100,000.00    100,000.00       -
8. Mtal Products Ltd.                   B-2         10/81       82,500.00        -         82,500.00
2,959,250.00  2,764,996.00   194,254.00
TAL 
EAPID
April 1984



tlfED*2  A ME       "ON  MMT (DS))
Ecxslc Ohracteritics of 1iIpIjects Fiu_vnd Urker ltm  16114I
(Amxnts K ' 00)
Subproject  aln lwaic                   1Tw of      Anhual Value   I Ikctic         f    c   1/ No. at .bl       1     _tm  (bt/b 2/
dM   O iyWL                _____tr        ctLivity       locati.   tr>ject      of Pnt L1c. Pm Pbterials  RPate cfi Smu   Ck.Mtd           ____ _
1. I_t.1 Iran "  Stwl Corp.    A-1            Fomdry         BLvtyme    1w               -                           -              -              23.           -
2. Llom   IAe  Ltd.              A-2          HdeAl          Lilmga   Eiqpwsi*V
Ibd rn1zatLon   2.0)          -              22            114             21.9         84.4
3.  Uayr  Nt~tUz   C~y           A-K     #'djumfetug1zq .1
lblyprapy Il e KWs  Miayre   tqwston         L.450          33             24             U.            30.3          25.
4. Carinbrg ILmvi Ltd.           A-i      Pruactim cnow
(kat_m            Rlamtyxe  klqmion         5,939          A)             3               7            4.0           ".3
S. Ctbtn Ptu&t* Ltd.             Ar-S    Ytedact1m of
kwr._n             Blantyre   Eqii           b,2(D          90                            S23 1.2                     3s.1
6. lId  tIt_c  NWd Sau                    fuif ctw4m of
Ltd.                         Aatile                      3mtyxe E Im%Lon          27,3ao           3U            29      U      86              ..00
7. Ft    okl bytr                 NI tXuf8ctuItfU o
rodire 9meta      UJnhUwe   bqmfulGn        2,847          25             i5              7            41.2           .,
11    UImetu   t 4gapiml; DfhC  du  not c.Ilate in-pu  MUR.
V   n Ll!; OJW
WID
Is
X



IALAWI
INVESTMENT ANU IEVLt;JWntNT BANK (INDEMANK)
Financial Charactertetica of Subprojects Flnanced Under Loan *bIU-IAi
Subproject           Pro ect Cost              INDbMAhNK  FinancPn              II betore Tax" it     N32/
bubproj*ct Nar L_c            Tbor L l    orln                 otl   Loan         AtTo              A &1,W-    A,iiT~,;        z               xammr,k-
1.  alaw-l Iroe 4 Steel        A-)       245    1,025        1.270    325    149          474g         421          -           -          pro)ect  still undr
Z. Lilongwe Corp. lotel
Ld.                       A-2    I,le         890       2,056    goo       -         MOO          M17         174        21A PSrottLcble
.  bla.tyra Netting Co.        A-3    1.000    1 700         2.70U    500    250          t5U           341         Wi         2b.b 0       rotitablo
4.  Carloberc Malawi Ltd.    A-A          362       56V         942    4U1      -         40U        )1.os        1.191        *e.u       1`rotI(.ble
5.  Chibuku troducta Ltd.    A-,    1,200                     1.200    791      --        791           III        ()l)        19.5        l DirJe luau 1i  198A.
compoll  10 gw
ptoiidIabia
o.  Davld Whitehead A Sonr
Ltd.                     A-       6,oSS   13.245       19.900  I,US    --          1 .i5o       i.230       J UJ         2U1.0       &rotlatble
7.  rV.O  Ste-l IndusLtrilo  4-1         350       250          bUU    25U    2IU         450           AdS         St,3j     _5. 4-       Prulible
I/ For 19iT
2    laaacal Rate of Raturn coatiated at appraisal; INIJIANK doc- not calcuL&te eR-poL t.ItKd.



- 20 -
ANNEX 4
MALAWI
INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK (INDEBANK)
Analysis of Loan Aptrovals as of June 30, 1983
(K 'OOn)
Number    %         Amount        %
A. SIZE
Up to K 100,000                  8        11          591        2
100,001 - 200,000               19       26        3,008       11
200,001. - 500,000             27        38        9,455       35
500,001 - 1,000,000             16       22       11,428       42
Over 1,000,000                   2         3       2,602        10
- 72     100       27,084      100
B. PRINCIPAL ECONOMIC ACTIVITY
Manufacturing                   38       55       15,244        57
Tourism (Hotels)                 8        11       3,731        14
Construction/Properties          5        7        2,070         7
Agriculture/Livestock           15       21        4,589       17
Miscellaneous Services           6         8        1 450        5
72     To-0       27,I084     100-
C. TERMS OF LOANS
Up to 5 years                    4        5           618        2
Up to 7 years                    9        12        1,648        6
Up to 10 years                 42        58       15,369        57
Over 10 years                  17        25        9,449       35
72       l00      27,084      0T0
D. INTEREST RATE
8 - 10o                        26        36       10,719       40
10 - 12%                       28        39       10,603       39
12-14%                         18        25        5,762       21
72      100       27,084      100
E. TYPE OF PROJECT
New                            43        60       16,247       60
Expansion                      21        29        7,418       27
Rehabilitation                  8         11       3 419       13
T2                -27,084     TO-0
F. TYPE OF OWNERSHIP
Private                        67        93       24,574       91
Public                           5        7        2,510        9
72      100       27,084       100
EAPID
January 1985



MALAWI
DnfS        AND  TV ENl  BANC (IMAM)
(qarison of Proected aud ktual OpratiQn  1978-1982
(Amots in K '000)
1978                  1979                   1980                   1981                  1982             la1liw
Projected   Actual    i'ojectedAtual         Projected   ktual    P rojerteddAktual    Prjetd                    rjecte 
A UWALS 1/
1;WE                   3,348      2,984       3,908     4,482        4,377      3,730      4,902      2,881     5,834        2,061      22,369   16,138
Equity Investmnts        560      1,613         977        300       1,094      1,284      1,226        540      1,029        -          4,886    3,737
Total                  3,908      4,597        4,885     4,782       5,471      5,014      6,128      3,421     6,863        2,061      27,255   19,875
Ioasu                  3,880      2,849       3,721      1,322       4,221      4,735      4,727      2,496      5,523       2,949      22,072   14,351
Equity Investments       573      1,363         838       451        1,055        966      1,182        934      1,095        -          4,743    3,714
Total                  4,453      4,212       4,559      1,773       5,276      5,701      5,909      3,430     6,618        2,949      26,815   18,065
1nsHMSEirS
LDoHn                  3,138      2,333       3,753      1,445       4,121      3,354      4,626      2,486     5,363        2,340      21,001   11,958
Equity Investmes         516      1,342         811       472        1,033        486      1,170      1,360     1,104          -         4,634   3,660
Total                  3,654      3,675       4,564      i,917       5,154      3,840      5,7%       3,846     6,467        2,340      25,635   15,618
0ULCfl(
Loan6                    462      2,108         953       943        1,346      1,036      1,83       1,400     2,455        1,520       7,055   7,007
1/ Net of Cancelatin.
EU1D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
EAPID
ALgust 1984



MALAI
INESrhrr AND [EVE1AJIENT BAW( O MALAWI (NEAK)
Analysis of Equity PoRtfolio as of December 31, 1983
(K '000)
Fanrs      _ _               Div La1  1/
DIEBAW        Net Worth                              beturn an           IReim  mx DIEAMIK
Amnt          wnership          ID(EBAN              IEBAW        Net Worth               INVEDIN*T
Disbursed       (X)        btal    Share      Total   Share            (X)      Amhxt         (2)
I.  Profitable CGxpanies
1. British American Tobaco Liited            350          24      3,214      771        670      161            21        230          66
2. Press Steel Industries Ltd.                75          25      1,194      296        470      118            39         175        233
3. Sxothern Bottlers Limited                  62           2      7,104      142        336        7             8          12         ao
4.  Irnustrial Develpments Limited           297          46        580      267         23       10             4         85           35
5. Capital Irestments Limited                250          25      3,252      813        182       45             6         54          22
6. Cpticlen (alawi) Limited                  280          16      1,043      417        134       54            13         112          40
7. MIrdala limited                           680          13      7,847    1,098        634       89             8         51 2/        8
8. Enterprise C(etainers Limited              93          34        440      132        151       45            34         75 7/        79
9. Standard Tobacco Packers Limited          400          13      3,131      407        (11)      (1)           -          72           18
10. Blantyre Netting CaWany Limited          250          16        802      240        364      109            45        100          40
11. Capital Developmnts Limited               70          17        649      117        195       35            30         56          80
12. Cattle Feelot Capany Limited              70          25        233       58         13        2             6         -           -
9ubtotal                        2,877                 29,489    4,760      3,161      674            -       1,022
II. Unprofitable Gmpanies
Capital Hotels Ltnited                       500          14      1,593      223       (218)    (31)           (14)        50           10
Press Ranchirg Ltmited                       100          20        179       36       (113)    (23)           (63)         0           0
Malawi Hotels Ltmited                         91          15      1,718      258       (662)    (99)           (38)         11          6
Subtotal                          691          -       3,490      517       (993)   ( 153)           -          61
IlI.Under lnsleuentation
Mla.ii Iron and Steel Coporation              40          20        352       70        -        -
Etharkol Cciany                              710          23      2,500      567        -        -              -          -
Indefund Ltmted                              400          62        650      400        -        -              -          -
Subtotal                        1,150          -       3,502    1,037        -        --                                     -
Irdetrust Ltmited                              5         100         17       17         -        -             -          -
Irdetrust Holdirgs LAited                      5         100         17       17
9ubtotal                           10          -          34       34         _        _                        -
1L.                                4,728                 36,515    6,348      2,168      521                     1,083
11  ce1 v    y jrCjEA( in 1983
_/ Received in 1982



- 23 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
MALAWI
Investment and Development Bank (INDEBANK)
Summary Description and Present Status of Subprojects
Financed Under Loan 1610-MAI
1.        Malawi Iron and Stee'l Corporation.  Subloan $416,670.  The Malawi
Iron and Steel Corporation (MISCOR) was established in 1979 to operate a
small iron and steel foundry in Blantyre. The company would convert local
unutilized scrap iron and steel into a variety of products based primarily
on individual job orders from local industry. The project was promoted by
MDC and its paid-in capital of K 746,000 was subscribed by MDC (24%), Press
Holdings Ltd (24%), Apex Industries of South Africa (32%), and INDEBANK
(20%). Total project cost amounted to K 1.25 million. The World Bank
subloan approved in 1979 financed the cost of importing a second hand
electric arc furnace and other equipment.  MISCOR had entered a management
agreement with Apex Industries under which the latter would provide the
necessary technical, and management expertise. In 1981, however, before
project implementation was completed, Apex Industries was taken cver by
another South African Company which decided not to participate in the
project. Due to lack of technical manpower, the project was closed in
March 1982. In March 1983, MISCOR reach.  a tentative agreement with a
Channel Island based company which would invest K 60,000 in the project and
provide the necessary technical expertise in return for a 33% ownership of
MISCOR. To facilitate completion of the project, INDEBANK converted
K 142,000 of its outstanding loans into income notes, approved a new loan
of K 200,000 for the project and rescheduled repayment terms on a K 400,000
loan and through a capital reduction scheme had its original share capital
of K 149,000 reduced to K 40,000 by writing off against equity certain
pre-operating expenses. The project has been fully operational since
1984.
2.        Lilongwe Hotel Limited.  Subloan $769,230.  The subloan, approved
in August 1979 financed 37% of the cost of expansion and modernization of
Lilongwe Hotel, a three star hotel in Lilongwe owned by Malawi Hotels
Limited (MHL).  MHL is the leading hotel company in Malawi and is owned 48%
by MDC, 26% by the CDC, and 26% by Carlsberg Breweries (Malawi) Ltd. The
expansion of Lilongwe Hotel was considered a good investment in view of a
high occupancy rate of 72% in 1979 and growing demand for hotel
accomodation following the relocation of Government offices from Blantyre
to Lllongwe and the construction of an international airport a few miles
from the hotel. The expansion program was completed on schedule in 1981.
The hotel had occupancy rate about 95% in 1982 and is profitable. The
expansion program generated 114 new jobs at an investment cost per job of
$14,000.



- 24 -
ANNEX 7
Page2 oi
3.        Blantyre Netting Company.  Subloan $151,160.  Blantyre Netting
Company (BNC) has manufactured fishing nets and twine since 1959. In 1981
it undertook a major expansion through the addition of a plant for
manufacturing polypropylene bags for the sugar, fertilizer and seed
industry. The company is majority (52x) owned and managed by the David
Whitehead and Sons group, which also manages a successful, large textile
company and has a reputation as one of the better managed groups in
Malawi. The rest of BNC shares are held by CDC (32%) and INDEBANK (162).
The project was identified in the Bank funded agro-industry study carried
out in 1980. The expansion program was completed six months ahead of
schedule at an estimated cost of K 2.7 million. The company is profitable
and has recently financed (through internal cost generation', additional
production capacity to meet growing demand for polypropylene bags.
4.        Carlsberg Malawi Limited.  Subloan $400,000.  The subloan was
approved in November 1981 and financed part of the cost of importation and
installation of injection molding equipment for the manufacture of plastic
crates for use by Carlsberg Malawi Brewery (CMBC) and its associated
company, Southern Bottlers Inc. a soft drink manufacturer. CHBL is partly
owned by United Brewery Limited of Denmark (49%) which provides all senior
m.-aagement for the company, Malawi Development Corporation (27%) and by
Press Holdings Limited (242). The cost of the project amounted to
K 944,000 of which K 400,000 was financed by the Bank subloan and the rest
by internally generated funds. The project was completed on time and
within budgeted costs. The project is profitable and repayment of the
INDEBANK loan is expected to proceed as scheduled. The additional
investment generated 17 new jobs at an investment cost per job of $44,300.
5.        Chibuku Products Limited.  Subloan $589,690.  Chibuku Products
Limited (CPL), owned 702 by Lornho (Malawi) Ltd. and 30% by Press Holdings
Limited brewers and markets locally, Chibuku--an alcoholic beverage
processed from maize and sorghum. At the time the subloan was approved in
1981, CPL operated three breweries and required financing to build a new
brewery and seven taverns in the capital city, Lilongwe. Totel cost of the
expansion program amounted to K 1.2 million and was financed by an INDEBANK
loan and self-generated funds. The Bank subloan portion of the INDEBANK
loan financed the cost of additional brewing tanks, part of the cost of
civil works (excluding the construction of taverns). Up to 1981, CPL was a
highly profitable company with return on equity averaging about 33% a
year. Following the imposition of control on the price of Chibuku in 1981
the company made a loss in 1982. In March 1983, however, a price increase
was authorized by Government and CPL's financial performance began to
improve. The company is well managed, its production depends on locally
available raw materials and has ready market for itb product; its future
prospects are considered excellent. The project generated fifty-three new
jobs at an investment cost of $18,000 per job.
6.        David Whitehead and Sons Ltd.  Subloan $45U,OJO.  David Whitehead
and Sons Limited is one of Malawi's largest private enterprises and the
only manufacturer of cotton textiles in the country. In 1982 the company
embarked on a program to refurbish its cotton fabric manufacturing plant
and set up two new plants, one for the recovery of waste cotton and the



- 25 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
other for the manufacture of polyester cotton fabrics. The project was
completed at a coot o' K 16.7 million financed by loans from the
Commonwealth bevelLomen: Corporation (CDC), IFC, INDEBANK, suppliers'
credit and self-generated funds. The project produces about fouir million
yards of pol3ester cotton fabric a year to substitute for a portion of
imports whic.a amounted to about six million yards a year before
implementation of the project. Raw cotton which represents about 30% of
raw material requirements is locally available. The company is well-
managed and profitable. 1982 profits represented a 22% return on equity.
Its future financial prospects are considered excellent. The expansion
program was completed on schedule and generated 186 new jobs at an
investment cost per job of $85,600. This was relatively high because the
bulk of the investment was for expansion and machinery replacement which
required only a marginal increase in the size of the labor force.
7.        Press Steel Industries Limited.  $100,000.  The project owned 75%
by Press Holdings Limited and 25% by INDEBANK, was established 1975 and
produces a range of corrugated iron sheets. The Bank subloan, approved in
December 1978 financed part of the cost of expanding the project's
production capacity, construction of an office building in Lilongwe and
building a railway siding to facilitate transportation of materials. Total
cost of of the project amounted to K 500,000 and was financed by an
INDEBANK loan of K 300,000 (including the Bank subloan) new equity of
K 100,000 and K 100,000 in self-generated funds. The project was completed
on schedule and became fully operational in 1980. Press Steel Industries
performance has been good since inception. Due to rapid growth in demand
for roofing sheets in the past few years, the company's turnover grew by
about 70% in 1982 leading to a sharp increase in profitability; 1982 i4et
earnings represented a high 40% return on equity; the project has
maintained a strong financial position and regularly services its debt.
Seven jobs were created at an investment cost per job of $68,000.
8.        Metal Products Distributors.  Subloan approved $82,500.  The
project promoted by two Malawian entrepreneurs was established in 1979 to
manufacture wire nails for the domestic market. Total project cost was
estimated at K 110,000, 68% of which would be financed by the World Bank
subloan and the rest by the promoter's equity contributions. Project
implementation is almost three years behind schedule primarily due to
promoters' poor implementation capabilities; the promoters were late in
making available to INDEBANK title deeds and property valuations of the
collateral securities to enable preparation of collateral mortgages, and
delayed in submitting machine maintenance contracts and obtaining exchange
control permission for the importation of machinery. Although the matters
were eventually resolved, the machinery has not been delivered. As the
closing date for loan 1610-MAI was July 1, 1983, the subloan approved for
this project together with other unutilized funds under the loan were
cancelled as of December 31, 1983. INDEBANK will utilize resources from
other sources to finance the cancelled subloans.



MAU4(I
INVESTfEr AND  IVE1OPMENr BAC (DIEBAK)
Projected and Actual Income Statements 1978-1982
(K '000)
1978                    1979                       1980                   1981                      1982
Projected   Actual       Projected   Actual       Projected   Actual       Projected   Actual       Projected   Actual
Year Ending Deceiiber 31
Loan IncoKuj                         1,006        872          1,285      1,004         1,567      1,196         1,850      1,453         2,138      1,726
Dividends                               128       258            188        453          277         544          400         578            553       777
Other                                   102        93            108         65           114        148           134        188            152       243
Total Incoe                        1,236      1,223         1,581       1,522         1,958      1,888        2,384       2,219          2,843     2,746
EXFES
Andinistrative Expenses                 1%        220           226         364          261         456          302         450            349       523  ,
Depreciation Fixperse                   18         22             19         33           21          41           41          39             42        3   °0
Financial Charges                      697        600           90D         723        1,124         862        1,370       1,047          1,621     1,243
Provisions                              37         -             46          -            52         -             58          40            65        585
Total Experses                       948        842         1,191       1,120         1,458      1,359         1,771      1,576          2,077     2,39
Profit Before Tar & Dividerds          288        381           390         402          500         529          613         642            766       357
Less Tax                               130        174           176         187          225         246          276         302            345       190
Profit After Tax                       158        207           214         215          275         283          337         340           421        167
Less Dividerds                          119       132           161         153          206         105          253         179            316       125
Increase in Retaired Earnings           39         75            53          62           69         118           84         162            105        41
EAE)                                                                                                                                                        X
April 1984                                                                                                                                                  X



MAIAWI
INEHTN ANSEURIN   AK (ROA)
Projected And Actual Balare Sheets 1978-1982
(K '000)
1978                 1979                 1980                   1981                  1982
As at Decemiber 31             Projected   Actual   Projected   Artual   Projected   Actual    Projected  Actual    Projected   Actual
ASS
Cash and Accounts Receivable     419          598       485       1,054     558        1,279      638         1,389      725       1,970
Local Registered Stock         1,186         700      1,100         670   1,324          840    1,559         1,062    1,747       1,219
0.rrent Maturities of long-
Term Loans                      -            974       -           896     -          1,307     -            1,691     -          1,909
Total Current Assets            1,605       2,272     1,585       2,620   1,882        3,426    2,197         4,142    2,472       5,098
P(RrFYLIO
Loans                         11,126       8,819    13,926        9,456  16,701       11,388   19,488        12,739   22,396      14,234
Equity lnvestments             1,635        2,462     2,446       29,34   3,479        3,420    4,649         4,485    5,753       4,742
less Provisions                  (37)       -           (83)       -       (135)         -       (193)          (40)    (258)       (585)
Total Portfolio               12,724       11,281    16,289      12,390  20,045       14,808   23,944        17,184   27,891      18,391
Fixed Assets (Net)               170         227        166         339     160          356      369           333      342         333
TrJAL ASSETS                  14,499       13,780    18,040      15,349  22,087       18,590   26,510       21,659   30,705       23,822
LIABILITIES
(brrent Liabilities              %3         1,504       951       1,205   1,129        1,075    1,319         1,434    1,483       1,866
Income Notes                   9,000       7,800     9,450        8,120  10,800        9,000   11,250        9,000   11,250        9,600
Lang Term Debt                 1,400         930     4,200        1,766   5,900        3,615    8,850        6,033   11,075        7,301
Paid-In Capital                3,000       3,375      3,250       4,025   4,000        4,500    4,750        4,500    4,450        4,500
Retaired Earnings & Reserves     136          171       189         233     258          351      342          692       447         555
Total Net Worth                3,136        3,546     3,439       4,258   4,258        4,851    5,092         5,192    4,897       5,055
Total Liabilities&Net Worth   14,499       13,780        18.040  15,349  22,087       18,540   26,510       21,659   30,705       23,822
EAPID
April 1984



MAIAI
DAS W  N _B M    BANK (nKW)
Projected and Actual Sources And Lkws of ftids 1978-1982
(K 'I000)
Year Endirg Lecamber 31                  1978                1979                 1980                 1981                 1982
Projected   Actual  Projected   Actual  Projected   Actual  Projectad   Actual  Projected   Act al
SOURCES
Net Profit                         39         207       53        215        69        283        84        340       105        167
Depreciation                        17         22       19         32        21         41        41         39        42         38
Provisions                         37          -        46         -         52         -         58         22        65        440
Total Funds Froxn Operation        93         229      T18        247       142        324       183        401       212        645
'nxan Collections                 462       2,108      953        943     1,346      1,037     1,839      1,353     2,455      2,050
Sales and Shares                   -          310       -          30       -          -         -           45        -          45
Increase in Stire Capital          160        535      250        650       750        -         750        265       700        -
Borrnwirgs:
Incne Notes                    1,650         450      450        320     1,350        475       450         -         -         600
lines of Credit                 1,400        918    2,800        779     1,700        880    2,95C          -      3,600        656
Oter Scurces                       -           -        -          -        -        1,910       -        2,593        -           2
IUEAL SOURCES:                  3,728       4,574    4,571      2,971     5,288      4,626     6,172      4,657     6,967      3,998
USES
Fied Assets                        15          78       15        145        15         58       250         16        15         39
Distursements:
lom;                          3,138       3,440    3,755      1,446     4,121      3,363    4,626       2,890     5,363      2,888
Eqtuty Investmnts               516        1,343     811        472     1,033        486     1,170      1,110     1,104        303
Repe,    of Borra   s-                         -        -          -        -           -        -           -        375         -
Dividends                         -           132       -         154       -          154       -          165        -         179
TI:AL USE                        3,669      4,993    4,579      2,217     5,169      4,060     6,046      4,171     6,857      3,409
Increase (Decrease) in Capital     96        (419)      (8)       754       119        566       126        486       110        589
EAPiD
April 1984



MAI
AND DfElVL2  B-. (UIE&VK)
Projected and Actual Fizrxcial Ratios 1978-1982
(z)
1978                  1979                  1980                  1981                   1962
Pject  Acu   Project  Artual  Projeted Acuml  P                               Acll  Pml
laxg-Tamu Debt/Equity Ratio     3.3        2.5        4.0        2.3        3.9        2.6        3.9        2.9        4.0        3.3
Cmrrent Ratio                   1.7        1.5        1.7        2.2        1.7        3.2        1.7        2.9        1.7        2.7
Debt-Servioe CAwerage Ratio     -          2.8        -           2.6        -         2.9         -         2.8         -         2.9
Profit After Tax as % of
Auerage Total Assets           1.2        1.7        1.3         1.5       1.4        1.7        1.4        1.7        1.5        0.7
Profit After Tax as % of
Average Equity                 5.2        6.4        6.5        5.5        7.2        6.2        7.2        6.8        7.7        3.3
Financial Expeinse s 2 of
Average Total Asets            5.4        4.8        5.5        5.0        5.5        5.1        5.6        5.2        5.7        5.5
AMird.strstimx ExDe  as Z
of Aherage Total Assets        1.5        1.8        1.4        2.5        1.3        2.7        1.2        2.2        1.2        2.3
Inamm frtmi low irteaaliu as
% of Aherge LoaIm Pbrtfollo   11.2       11.2       10.3       11.0       10.4       11.5       10.4       12.0       10.2       12.8
Dividinds IrKxx  as 2 of
Fquity Pbrtfolio               7.8       10.3        7.7        15.4      8.0        15.9        8.6       12.8        9.6       16.4
Prowisiiw as 2 of Outstanding
Itm  Pbrtfolio                 0.3        -          0.5       -          0.7        -           0.8        0.2        0.9        3.1
EAPID
April 1984
IX
I-



- 30 -
ANNEX 12
maJAm,
ESThK AND EMEPWM BANK OF  MI ( KIBA )
Schadule of Estimated vs. Actual Disbursemnts
Appraisal Estimate                                  Actual
Year   Qurter  Per (Jarter       Qnuilative  Per Quarter  Qwlative    % of Estimate   X of Total Loans
1979   Fourth     180,000           180,000          -           -             0                0
1980   Flrst      275,000           455,000          -                         0                0
Second    300,000           755,000           -           -            0                0
Third      350,000         1,105,000          -           -             0               0
Fourth    375,0O0         1,480,000           -           -            0                0
1981    First     375,000         1,855,000          -           -             0                0
SeL.ornd    375,000       2,230,000           -           -            0                0
Third      300,000        2,530,000      796,597       796,597        31               26
Fourth    250,000         2,780,000      130,344       926,946         33              31
1982   First      150,000         2,930,000       76,418     1,003,360        34               33
Second     70,000         3,000,000      112,497     1,115,856         37              37
Third        -                 -         113,900     1,229,757         41              41
Fourth       -                 -         142,582     1,372,339        46               46
1983   First         -                 -         194,956     1,567,295        52               52
Second       -                 -         293,327     1,860,622        62               62
Ihird        -                 -         125,589     1,986,211        66               66
Fourth       -                 -         737,941     2,724,152        91               91
1984   First         -                 -          19,643     2,743,795        91               91
Second       -                 -          21,201     2,764,996 I/     92 1/            92
1/ An undisbursed balair of $235,004.00 was cancelled on 12/31/83
EAPID
April 1984



- 31 -                          ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 4
INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK
OF MALA*I LTD.
TELEPHONE 620055                              Our Rat CLM/efn                        Delamere House,
TELFX     4735 IINDEBANKY                                                            Victoria Avenue,
Co0i'  rS RECEIVED FROM BORROWER                   Blantyre.
7th April 1986Blnr.
Yuk.nori Watanabe Esq.
Director
Operations Evaluation Department
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington DC 20433
UJSA
Dear Mr Watanabe
PiRJ ECr CC%iU 1aN REICR - IWESMNST AND DELO
BANK OF NfALAI - LDN 1610 MAI
Thank you fnr the draft cofpletion report which yoJ sent to us together with
your letter of March 7, 1986.
We are in general agreement with the conclusions of the report, and we do
not have much in the form of comrents. The weaknesses of Indebank in the
areas of project appraisal and promotion as perceived at the tine of this
project's appraisal, and during most of the period of its implementation has
gradualiy been attended to. During the past three years, Indebank has
successfully trained some four Mvalawians in project appraisal and this
process is continuing. Project promotion did not receive similar attention
nainly because Indebank continued to have adequate project enquiries and
applications. From 1986, a Promotions Department has been created.
Para. 3.08,
page 10, has  With regards to economic appraisal, we would wish to mention that cluring
been amended the last year or two, this has been given more and more prominence. We now
to reflect    carry out economic rate of return calculations on each project; we also carry
recent         out foreign exchange funds flow on some projects.  It is our intention to
improvements  continue applying economic appraisal criteria to almost all our projects as
in appraisal more and more (IBRD and EIB) of our lenders require that we do it.
procedures.                     it
We are stiil weak,in hijuse technical appraisal. We have, whenever necessary,
hired consultants to a.;sist. We do not therefore erwisage employing an
engineer soon.
21.........



-32-                         AUNEX 13
Pap 2rf 4
INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK
OF MALA*I LTO.
t,,  1140BIF;   :-,I I -N  I j . I  .N ¢ - Ii ',   -it    A   1;}14  R'-S   b      ; | 'z''l %k)?    ' t  N;.  VlI  1:
TELEPHONF 620055                                 u Ref.:                               Delamere House,
TEi Fx    4735 IINDEBANK)                      Your Rot:                              Victoria Avenue,
P.O. Box 358.
Blantyre.
Finally on points of detail, we weud wish to suggest avirKkh,nts as
detailed on ny amrore.  I hope you f ind our commnts useful.
Yours sincerely
C L MWFHE
63hERAL MNANA
Copy to   Secretary to the Treasury
P 0 Box 30049
CAPITAL CITY
LI LNO     3



33 -                         ANNEX 13
-~ 33 -Page 3 of 4
INVESTMNT AND DEVELOFMENT BN( OF M4LAII LIMITE)
PAGE 9 - PAR 3.06 - in 1983 and 1984, there were only two expatriate staff
in Indebank.  There were two others, one each in Indefund
and Indietrust.
PAGE 22 - ANNiEX 6 - amDnxts disbursed and Indebank ownership should read as
follows for the following conpanies:
AMVLNT DI SULLSED       I NDEBANK CERSH I P
K
Indust,ial Developments 'imited                297,000
Optichem (Malawi) Limited                                                  16
Manidala Limited                                                           13
Annex 6 has Enterprise Containers Limited                         93                     34
been amended Blantyre Netting Ccrparny                                                   16
to reflect  Capital Developments Limited                                                17
these
changes      Malawi Hotels Limited                                91
Malawi Iron and Steel Corporation                    40
Sub-total under 1           2877 not 2825
11           691 not  781
'II          1150 nut 1259
Total                       4728 not 4747
- Total equity disbursed should therefore be K4,728 instead of K4,742,000.
PACE 23 - ANNEX 7 - (Proposed changes are underlined)
MALAWI IFON AND STEEL CC1PCRATICN (should read as follows)
Subloan $416,670.  The  ialawi Iron and Steel Corporation (MISQOR) was
Annex 7      established in 1979 to operate a small iron and steel foundry in Blantyre.
(page 23)   The cofpany would convert local unutilised scrap iron and steel into a variety
has been
amended as  of products based prirmrily on individual job orders from local industry.
suggested   The project was promted by MDC and its paid-in capital of K746,000 was to be
by the
Borrowe;.    subscribed by UCX (24%), Press Holdings Limited (24%), Apex Industries of
South Africa (32%), and Indebank (20%). Total project cost amsunted to
K1.25 million. The World Bank subloan approved in 1979 financed the cost of
irrporting a second hand electric arc furnace and other equipment. MISCCR had
entered a managerent agreement with Apex Industries under wiic'i the latter
would provide the necessary technical, and manageFent expertise.  In 1981,
however, before project inplementation was started Apex Industries was taken
over by another South African Company which decided not to participate in the
prcect.  Press Holdings also withdrew and Malawi Develcpnent Corporation (MDC)
2/.......



ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 4
took up part of their stake.  Due to lack of technical manpower, the project
was closed in Mbrch 1982, In Mbrch 1983, MISOCR reached a tentative agreement
with a Channel Island based coqmany wohich would invest K60,JOO in the project
and provide necessary technical expertise in return for a 33% ownership of
MISCOR.  To facilitate completion of the project, Indebank converted K142,000
of its outstanding loans into income notes, approved a new loan of K200,000
for the project, rescheduled repaynmnt terms on K400,000 loan and through a
capital reduction scheme had its original share capital of K149,000 reduced
to K40,000 by writing off against equity certain pre-operating expenses.  The
project has been fully operational since 1984.



