FILE Copy                                  Document of
The World Bank
International Finance Corporation
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2227a-MAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK AND TO THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN BY THE BANK
TO THE
INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MALAWI
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
AND A PROPOSED INVESTMENT BY THE CORPORATION IN THI
INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MALAWI
June 22, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =  Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00                 =  MK 0.89
MK 1.00                 =  US$1.12
MK 1,000                =  US$1,120
MK 1,000,000            =  US$1,120,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft)             =  0.305 meters (m)
I mile (mi)             =  1.609 kilometers (km)        2
1 square mile (sq mi)  =  2.590 square kilometers (km )
1 ton (t)               =  0.907 metric tons (m ton)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADMARC    -  Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
CDC       -  Commonwealth Development Corporation
DEG       -  Deutsche Entwicklungs Gesellschaft
DEVPOL    -  Government's Statement of Development Policies
EIB       -  European Investment Bank
FMO       -  Nederlandse Financierings - Maatschappij voor
Ontwikkelings Landen N.V.
IECM      -  Import-Export Company of Malawi
INDEBANK  -  Investment and Development Bank of Malawi
MDC       -  Malawi Development Corporation
MWS       -  Ministry of Works and Supplies
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
INDEBANK PROJECT
LOAN, EQUITY AND PROJECT SUMMARY
IBRD Loan
Borrower:         Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited
(INDEBANK)
Guarantor:        Republic of Malawi
Amount:           US$3.0 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayable in accordance with a schedule which would
conform substantially to the aggregate of the amortiza-
tion schedules applicable to the sub-loans. The maximum
repayment period would be 17 years. Interest would be
7.5 percent per annum.
Relending Terms: INDEBANK would relend the proceeds of the loan at an
interest rate which could vary between 10.5 and 11.0
percent per annum for a maximum period of 15 years,
including 2 years of grace. The foreign exchange risk
would be borne by the sub-borrowers.
IFC Investment:        500,000 INDEBANK shares of par value MK1 each to be
subscribed by IFC at par (approximately US$562,000
equivalent).
Project Description:  The project seeks to assist the growth of medium- to
large-scale enterprises in Malawi by providing funds to
INDEBANK for financing the foreign exchange component
of industrial projects. It would also seek to improve
the operational policies of INDEBANK and, through IFC's
representation on the institution's board, to provide
technical advice to INDEBANK's management. It would
create an estimated 1,100 new jobs. The project faces
no special risks. INDEBANK will pass the foreign
exchange risk to its borrowers.
Estimated Resource                    Local       Foreign      Total
Requirement (1978-mid 1981)
(US$ million):
Industry                    4.0           7.4         11.4
Agriculture                 1.2           2.4          3.6
Real Estate and Others      1.4           2.5          3.9
Total                  6.6          12.3         18.9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan (US$ Million):                Local        Foreign      Total
Resources available at end 1977             0.9           1.6          2.5
European Investment Bank (Loan)             0.0           3.3          3.3
Internal Cash Generation by INDEBANK        4.4           0.0          4.4
INDEBANK's existing shareholders            1.1           3.3          4.4
Proposed Loan                               0.0           3.0          3.0
Proposed IFC Investment                     0.0           0.6          0.6
Gap 11                                      0.2           0.5          0.7
6.6          12.3         18.9
Estimated Loan Disbursements (US$ million):
Bank FY               1979      1980      1981     1982
Annual                0.2       1.3       1.3      0.2
Cumulative            0.2       1.5       2.8      3.0
Rate of Return:               n.a.
Appraisal Report:         Ref. No. 1914a-MAI
June 9, 1978.
1/   The European Investment Bank has expressed willingness to make another
loan to INDEBANK when its present loan is fully committed.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK AND
TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION
ON A PROPOSED LOAN BY THE BANK
TO THE INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MALAWI LTD.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI AND A PROPOSED INVESTMENT
BY THE CORPORATION IN THIS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Ltd. (INDEBANK) with
the guarantee of the Republic of Malawi for the equivalent of US$4.0 million,
and a proposed IFC investment of MK 500,000 (approximately US$562,000 equiva-
lent) in the share capital of INDEBANK. The loan would bear interest at
7.5 percent per annum and the repayment would conform substantially to the
aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to the sub-loans made pur-
suant to this loan. The maximum repayment period would be 17 years. INDEBANK
would use US$3.0 million to help finance the foreign exchange component of its
loans and investments and would channel the remaining US$1.0 million through
two commercial banks to help finance the foreign exchange component of loans
and investments in small-scale enterprises.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economy of Malawi" (Report No.
1677a-MAI) dated September 30, 1977 was circulated to the Executive Directors
on October 10, 1977. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
3.        At independence in 1964, Malawi was the poorest of the three terri-
tories of the former Central African Federation. With a population of 5.2
million and a land area of about 118,500 square kilometers, Malawi is also
densely populated. Its main assets are moderately fertile soils, good
water resources and a climate favorable to crop production. Unlike its
neighbors, Malawi has no substantial mineral resources. Forests constitute
the main essentially untapped resource which could be exploited on a signi-
ficant scale in the future. At independence, the tax base was very narrow,
government revenues had to be supplemented with British budgetary aid to
support the administration, and prospects for economic development were
generally regarded as bleak.
4.        Malawi has a GNP per capita of only US$140 and is listed by the
United Nations among the world's poorest countries. Measured against the
country's natural endowments, however, progress since 1964 has been remark-
able. Between 1964 and 1976, GDP at constant prices grew at an average annual
rate of 6.5 percent, domestic investment and savings increased rapidly, and
government finances had improved sufficiently to eliminate the need for
budgetary aid. Agriculture, which dominates the economy (46 percent of GDP
and 40 percent of paid employment in 1976), has been directed towards export
markets by encouraging cash crop estates production and integrated rural
development schemes. In addition, rapid industrial development (the share
of industry rose from 9 percent of GDP in 1964 to 18 percent in 1976) has
significantly broadened the economic base.



-2-
5.        The continuing success of Malawi's development efforts has been
the result of realistic and purposeful planning by the Government. A State-
ment of Development Policies (DEVPOL), which provides a general framework for
three-year rolling plans, was published in 1971. DEVPOL contains guidelines
for major economic targets up to 1980 and states as main socioeconomic objec-
tives: (a) raising living standards and productivity in rural areas; (b)
achieving an average annual growth of GDP of 8 percent through the parallel
development of smallholder output, estate agriculture and industry; (c)
promoting a more balanced regional development; and (d) developing local
initiatives by gradually increasing local participation in the economy.
6.        Within the public sector, agriculture will receive 19 percent,
public utilities 11 percent, and social services 15 percent of total in-
vestment during 1971-80. The transportation sector will receive about 29
percent, although between now and 1980 the proportion is expected to be tem-
porarily higher (46 percent) because of the concentration of several large
investments in those years. Malawi has an effective administration which has
been quite successful in preparing and implementing development projects.
7.        DEVPOL recognizes the important role of private investment in devel-
opment which, it is anticipated, will account for about one-half of total
fixed capital formation over the 1971-80 period. The Government also recog-
nizes the role of a healthy private sector in generating foreign exchange and
savings needed to sustain other elements of the development strategy, and has
adopted policies which are intended to attract foreign investors and to ensure
a continued high growth of the private sector. Trade and payments policies
are liberal, profits moderately taxed and wages are held down to favor labor-
intensive estates and industries. The modern private sector has been the
leader in economic growth. The output of estate agriculture increased by 10
percent a year in real terms over the past decade, and industrial production
rose by 13 percent annually.
8.        In 1969 (the last year for which reliable income data are avail-
able), the poorest 40 percent of Malawi's households received 15 percent of
the total; the highest 20 percent received 53 percent and the top 5 percent
received 30 percent. These figures compared well with those of other develop-
ing countries. Since then, the rapid development of the modern private sector
has probably led to a less equitable situation.
9.        To offset the adverse distributional effect of the growth of the
modern private sector, the Government has directed some of its agricultural
investment program toward the smallholders. However, for some years, the
Government kept producer prices well below international prices until they
started acting as disincentives to producers. The Government has recently
recognized the importance of sufficiently remunerative commodity producer
prices and has authorized substantial increases. Indirectly, wage and price
policies have reduced the gap between wage earners and subsistence farmers.
Over the past seven years, real wages have fallen somewhat, while the real
earnings of smallholders have risen. Nevertheless wage employment has in-
creased by 8 percent a year on the average since 1968.



-3-
10.       Malawi's population is unevenly distributed, and the population
pressure in some areas is heavy in relation to arable land. While recognizing
the existence of this problem, the Government has been reluctant to introduce
population control policies and intends to rely instead on balanced regional
development policies that would encourage the movement of population to the
less densely populated areas. Only about 6 percent of the total population
live in urban areas. However, because of the diversification of the economy,
urban population is increasing by more than 10 percent per annum, in line with
the expansion of wage employment opportunities in the non-agricultural sectors.
11.       As about 90 percent of the population live in rural areas, rural
development is a primary social and economic objective. At present, the
majority of farmers are smallholders on the fringe of the market economy.
Their staple crop is almost exclusively maize, and their principal cash crops
are cotton, tobacco and groundnuts. Until now, the principal instrument for
increasing smallholder productivity has been relatively intensive, integrated
development projects in specific areas, which at the moment reach about 25
percent of the rural population.
12.       In spite of the Government's efforts, however, production from
traditional agriculture has lagged behind that of the estates. Although
firm figures are lacking, indications are that the production from the tradi-
tional sector has not increased by much more than 3 percent a year over the
past decade. The Government is concerned about this relatively slow growth
and is preparing a new country-wide approach to rural development. This would
be a departure from the previous approach in that it would primarily concen-
trate on providing farm inputs and extension services, with less emphasis on
infrastructure. The new approach - the National Rural Development Program -
is to become the Government's chief vehicle for smallholder development.
13.       The country's progress in generating and using domestic resources
on the whole has been impressive. Both domestic savings and fixed investment
have risen steadily since independence. Savings, virtually nil in 1964, were
11.5 percent of GDP in 1976, and fixed investment during the same period rose
from 8.5 to 22 percent of GDP. In general, the Government's fiscal management
has been skillfull. By holding recurrent expenditures down and, at the same
time, expanding revenues, the Government has managed to achieve small budget
surpluses and to bring the domestic contribution to financing development ex-
penditures, which was negative in 1964, to 27 percent in 1976. Nevertheless,
the expanding level of development activities will place additional demands
on recurrent expenditures, possibly limiting future government contributions
to the capital budget. Consequently, there is need for stepping up domestic
resource mobilization, particularly through taxation. Since 1971, the in-
crease in recurrent revenue has lagged behind the increase in monetary GDP.
On the other hand, the increasing tempo of development is adding rapidly to
recurrent expenditure requirements. In response, the Government has increased
the company tax, personal income tax and import duties and excise taxes on
some commodities. Further increases, however, will be needed, both for re-
current expenditures as well as to help finance future development. The
Government is concerned about the problem and with Bank assistance, has
initiated a study of future recurrent budget requirements.



-4-
14.       After serious deterioration in 1975 and 1976, Malawi's balance of
payments recovered sharply in 1977. The deterioration was due principally
to international inflation (and consequent deterioration in the terms of
trade), exacerbated by the suspension in 1974 of the flow of Malawian migrant
workers to South Africa, which drastically reduced remittances, and substan-
tial capital outflows in 1975 and 1976. As a result, Malawi's foreign re-
serves declined from US$82 million in 1974 to US$26 million - equivalent to
about 1-1/2 months of imports - in 1976. The Government took fiscal and mone-
tary measures to deal with the problem, and in 1977 the IMF made available
a first tranche standby credit, equivalent to US$6.3 million. Demand for
Malawi's main agricultural exports, however, continued strong, and foreign
exchange reserves rose to a record level of US$88 million (equivalent to about
four months of imports) by the end of 1977.
15.       The expansion of the Government's investment programs has been
assisted by increased public capital inflows on very concessionary terms.
The net contribution from foreign official sources to the financing of public
investment increased from US$17 million in 1967 to about US$45 million in
1976, of which US$11 million were in grant form. The sources also have
gradually been diversified. At independence, Britain was virtually the only
source; but by 1976, the British contribution had declined to about 40 per-
cent. Multilateral sources, especially IDA, provided about 40 percent, and
a variety of bilateral sources, notably Canada and the USA, accounted for the
remainder.
16.       At the end of 1976, Malawi's external public debt totaled US$343
million, of which US$258 million had been disbursed. Debt service in 1976
amounted to US$12.7 million, equivalent to about 7 percent of foreign exchange
earnings. At the end of 1976, IDA's share in Malawi's disbursed debt was
28.5 percent, and servicing of IDA credits accounted for 3.2 percent of total
debt service. By 1985, Bank Group share in Malawi's total debt service pay-
ments will be about 24.2 percent. With the continuing increase in public
investment, external capital inflow is estimated to increase to about US$125
million by 1982. In the future, we may expect some hardening in the average
terms of lending. However, even if the average grant element of official
assistance were to fall from the 80 percent level of 1971-75 to, say, 50
percent by 1985, Malawi's public debt service obligations would still remain
below 10 percent of export earnings in 1985. Because of the Government's
limited ability to mobilize domestic resources for the pipeline of projects
it is able to prepare and implement (para. 13), external financing usually
covers a substantial part of the project cost, including local costs when the
foreign exchange component is relatively small. Despite the Government's
steady improvement in upping the domestic share of development expenditures
(27 percent in 1976), new investment is expanding more quickly than the
domestic resource base. Moreover, much of the Government's development
outlays is necessarily concentrated in activities not suitable for external
assistance, so that the proportion of external financing in specific projects
usually ranges higher than the 73 percent overall figure in 1976. In consid-
eration of the Government's good performance in economic management and proj-
ect preparation and implementation, Malawi became a blend country in 1976
when it received a Bank loan on Third Window terms.



-5-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
17.       Malawi has received sixteen IDA credits totalling US$122.2 million
and three Bank loans totalling US$26.2 million, of which two were on Third
Window terms. Of the total Bank Group assistance, US$51.8 million (35 per-
cent) was for agriculture, US$37.8 million (25 percent) to power development,
US$17.9 million (12 percent) to education, US$32.5 million (22 percent) for
roads and the balance of US$9.0 million (6 percent) for water supply and to
finance preparation of a planned pulp mill at Viphya. The first Bank loan
to Malawi was made on Third Window terms in June 1976 and the first standard
Bank loan in April 1977. IFC's first investment in Malawi was in February
1976 with a loan of US$6 million for a textile mill. IFC made its second loan
of US$9.0 million for a sugar development in April 1977. A summary statement
of Bank Group operations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects are
provided in Annex II. Project implementation is generally satisfactory.
18.       While Bank Group operations in Malawi will continue to emphasize
rural development, infrastructure (power, water supply and roads) and educa-
tion development also will receive attention. In agriculture, the first phase
of the 20-year National Rural Development Program was appraised last November
and a credit proposal is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors
later this year. In education, a joint sector study was recently carried out
by UNESCO and the Bank. We expect to appraise a project later this year based
on its results. With regard to water supply, a WHO/Bank mission visited
Malawi in November 1977 to assess conditions in the sector and carry out pre-
liminary project identification. Finally, the Bank Group is also assisting
the Government, through a technical assistance/engineering credit, to prepare
the Viphya pulp and paper project.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT IN MALAWI
Performance of Industry
19.       Industrial production in Malawi has grown at a remarkable rate
averaging 13 percent per annum between 1964 and 1975. In 1976, Mozambique
closed its border with Rhodesia and South Africa thus compelling Malawian
industrialists to reroute their supplies of raw materials and equipment
through the congested Mozambican ports. The resulting delays, compounded by
the foreign exchange problems of the country (para. 14) reduced manufacturing
output in 1976.  By 1977, most industries had recovered and manufacturing
output during the first eleven months was 10 percent higher than during the
comparable period in 1976.



-6-
20.       While agriculture still dominates the economy, industry in 1976
accounted for 18 percent of GDP and 21 percent of wage employment. Malawian
industry is one of the most profitable and labour-intensive in Africa. The
latest survey of enterprises with more than 20 employees, conducted in 1973,
indicated a net profit before tax of 13 percent of total assets, and an
average of MK 1,300 of capital assets per employee.
Structure of Industry
21.       Industrial production is mostly manufacturing (72 percent) and con-
struction (28 percent). By 1973, manufacturing which traditionally consisted
of the processing of tobacco and tea for export had diversified into the
import-substitution of basic goods, such as food and beverages, textiles,
clothing, footwear and metal and wood products. Since then, there has been
an acceleration in the production of sugar, which had become the third largest
export after tea and tobacco. The manufacture of agricultural implements and
equipment also received an increasing share of recent investments.
22.       Three fourths of industrial employment is located in the Southern
Province . Because of the poverty and low level of savings in the country,
only a few local enterprises with strong government support, and often in
collaboration with foreign partners, can mobilize the investments required in
medium- and large-scale industry. Strengthened by the profitability of their
investments, these enterprises (notably the Malawi Development Corporation,
Press Holdings Limited and the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corpora-
tion) have succeeded in placing the industrial sector, except textiles, under
majority Malawian ownership. However, since there are relatively few Malawians
skilled in management, expatriate staff, frequently provided by minority
foreign partners, still occupy most of the managerial and specialized tech-
nical positions in the larger enterprises. In its 1978-81 development pro-
gram, the Government proposes to emphasize the training of accountants,
engineers and business administrators.
23.       Most Malawian entrepreneurs concentrate on small-scale industries
which seldom employ more than ten people or have investments exceeding
MK 50,000. They operate in wood and metal working, garments, leather works,
furniture, construction materials, and, in rural areas, in blacksmithing and
sawmilling. To date, there are no institutions in Malawi which specifically
look after the needs of small-scale industries. The Government, through
several special schemes, including two industrial estates, has, in the past,
extended some financial assistance to such industries. The commercial banks,
notably the National Bank of Malawi and the Commercial Bank of Malawi, also
make some loans to small-scale businesses. Nevertheless, a good knowledge of
the real needs, and development constraints, of small-scale industries does
not exist. Therefore, the Government, with the assistance of a consultant
financed by the Bank, is currently undertaking a feasibility study of small-
scale industrial development in Malawi. When completed, in the next few
months, the study should provide the basic data necessary for the preparation
of a nation-wide small-scale industrial project, if justified.



- 7-
Government Policies in Industry
24.       Since 1964 the Government has followed a pragmatic policy which
gives priority to industries using local resources and aiming at self-suffi-
ciency in basic goods such as food and clothing. Strong emphasis has been
placed on competitive and profitable private companies, which are viewed as
the most efficient vehicle of industrial growth. To attract foreign investors,
the Government has pursued a well-publicized, liberal policy of full repatria-
tion of profits and, eventually, disinvestments. Industrial investors are
usually granted tax deductions, including 10 percent of new plant and equip-
ment costs, all preoperating expenditures and accelerated depreciation. Some
may also be granted concessionary duty rates on imports of machinery, parts
and raw materials. Manufacturers of export commodities are automatically
granted a full rebate of duties on parts and raw materials.
25.       Although the Economic Planning Division in the Office of the
President formulates overall economic development policies and the Ministry
of Finance controls public sector financing and external capital inflow, the
Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism strongly influences industrial devel-
opment through its day-to-day administration of the licensing, incentives and
price control systems. Industrial licenses are seldom denied, but applicants
are encouraged to avoid saturated domestic markets and to minimize their
requirements of imported supplies. In addition, the licensing system is used
selectively to encourage the development of Malawian entrepreneurs. The
Ministry also issues guidelines for retail prices of locally manufactured
products. Although these guidelines are not legally binding, except for a few
essential consumer goods, they are generally observed. Price increases are
usually granted if they are justified by higher costs of production or imports.
This flexible price control is balanced by the Government's policy of limiting
wage increases to productivity increases.
Prospects
26.       Several large investments are presently coming into fruition.  A
financing plan of MK 59 million, including an IFC loan of US$9 million, was
finalized in April 1977 for the establishment of a large, export-oriented
sugar complex which, on completion, is expected to almost double the national
sugar production capacity. The Government is also seeking financing for a
pulp and paper project which would utilize 160,000 acres of timber on the
Viphya plateau in the Northern Province.  The total cost is estimated at over
US$500 million. Feasibility studies for molasses utilization, ceramics,
tannery, motor oil re-refining, and knitted fabrics and infusion solutions are
being financed with a DM 1.2 million grant from KfW. Several other import
substitution opportunities are still unexploited, and the gradual return of
Malawian workers to South African mines is expected to increase rural incomes
and enhance the growth of rural industries. Legislation attractive to for-
eign capital, liberal and consistent investment policies, relatively low cost
labour, a stable political situation and a relatively efficient administration
all combine to foster an attractive investment climate.



-8-
Financial Environment
27.       Domestic credit has been increasing sharply in Malawi in the last
few yearsdue mostly to public sector borrowings and larger deficits in the
Government budget. In view of Malawi's worsening balance of payments position,
the Reserve Bank, in the second half of 1976, started to require a liquidity
ratio of 25 percent, accompanied by a stricter definition of liquid assets.
As a result, the total credit outstanding levelled off in the first quarter of
1977, while a marked increase in the inflow of resources enabled the building-
up of foreign exchange reserves after a continuous decline since the beginning
of 1975.
28.       In November 1976, the Reserve Bank announced the first substantial
increase in interest rates since 1970. The Reserve Bank's discount rate
went from 6 to 7 percent and the minimum lending rate of commercial banks
was increased from 8.5 percent to 10 percent per annum, with a new maximum
of 15 percent. At present, annual interest rates on savings deposits range
from 5.5 percent for savings to 8.5 percent for 36 months' deposits, while
the average lending rate for commercial banks is between 12 percent and 13
percent per annum.
29.       Malawi has a relatively well-developed financial system which
comprises: (i) two commercial banks; (ii) eight specialized financial in-
stitutions, two of which (the Malawi Development Corporation (MDC) and the
Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC)) play an im-
portant role in industry; (iii) a trading company, Import-Export Company
of Malawi (IECM), (iv) a large holding group, Press Holdings Ltd, and (v)
a traditional development bank, INDEBANK.
30.       Commercial Banks:  The two commercial banks are partnerships of
foreign banking groups with large domestic financial institutions active in
the industrial field. Their boards, with local interlocking directorships
are chaired by the managing director of Press Holdings Ltd. (para. 33).
Agriculture has represented the bulk of the banks' operations, with industry
and trade accounting for less than one-third. The National Bank of Malawi
(NBM), owned by Press Holdings Ltd. (57 percent), by Barclays and Standard
Banks (10 percent each), and local interests, had assets totalling MK 111
million at March 31, 1977. NBM has shown a continuously strong performance,
with no write offs for bad debts, and an excellent profitability. NBM's
lending, mostly in the form of overdrafts, is mainly to agriculture (50
percent) and manufacturing and trade (30 percent), through a large network
of branches and other offices. It has 70 percent of the country's private
domestic deposits. The Commercial Bank of Malawi (CBM) is owned by Press
Holdings Ltd. (40 percent), MDC (20 percent), ADMARC (10 percent) and Bank of
America (30 percent). Since a major capital restructuring in 1974, CBM has
steadily eliminated accumulated deficits and distributed a first dividend in
1976. CBM's lending, also again mostly overdrafts, goes mainly to agriculture
(72 percent) and manufacturing and trade (21 percent). Although CBM's total
assets of MK 40 million are only about one-third of NBM's, and its share of
private domestic deposits is 30 percent, it has a more extensive network of
branches and other offices.



-9-
31.       Malawi Development Corporation (MDC) and Import-Export Company of
Malawi Ltd. (IECM). MDC is a statutory corporation, set up in 1964 to promote
non-agricultural projects according to national priorities. It is wholly
owned by the Ministry of Finance. In addition to annual equity contributions
from the Government and local borrowings, MDC has drawn resources since 1973
from substantial Euro-dollar borrowings on rather hard terms. MDC operates
as a holding company, making mostly equity investments and lending only to
companies in which it holds shares. Sixty percent of MDC's investments are in
industry, 10 percent in tourism and the rest in commerce and services. At the
end of 1976, its assets totalled MK 14 million and its consolidated holdings
totalled MK 44 million. MDC does not have any single exposure limit for
individual projects nor any maximum on investment amounts. The Import-Export
Company, created in 1975, is controlled by MDC, which owns 51 percent of the
shares, while Press Holdings Ltd. owns the remaining 49 percent. With assets
of MK 15 million, it primarily operates wholesale stores (selling MK 25
million per year in basic consumer goods through 59 wholesale depots in the
country), and marketing services (selling MK 9 million per year in more
sophisticated products through 30 mobile vans).
32.       Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC) was
established in 1971 as a statutory corporation under the Ministry of Agri-
culture to promote agricultural exports by developing an efficient system
for purchasing crops produced by small farmers, marketing the main export
crops and sponsoring agricultural and agro-industrial enterprises. ADMARC
has invested its substantial trading profits (about MK 8 million per year on
the average) essentially in agricultural and agro-industrial enterprises and
in a few industrial enterprises (e.g. cement, shoe-making). It has no project
appraisal capabilities and tends to make its investments at the specific
request of the Government.
33.       Press Holdings Ltd., created in 1960, is a private limited hold-
ing company whose shares are registered under the name of the President who
keeps them "in trust for the people of Malawi". With assets of MK 69 million,
the company now has shareholdings in 38 other companies, widely diversified
in agriculture, industry, commerce, real estate, transportation, banking and
insurance. Press Holdings Ltd. reportedly reinvests its substantial profits
(about MK 4 million per year on the average) and receives no direct financial
support from the Government.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The proposed loan to the Investment and Development Bank of Malawi
(INDEBANK) would be the Bank's first financing for industrial development in
Malawi. The project was identified in May 1977, prepared by INDEBANK, and
appraised in November. Supplementary data on the project are in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1978, with a Malawian delegation
led by Mr. Gerald Raynor, General Manager of INDEBANK. The Staff Appraisal
Report No. 1914a-MAI of June 9, 1978 is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors.



- 10 -
Role and Strategy of INDEBANK
35.       INDEBANK was established as a private limited company in December
1972 to promote projects in industry, agriculture and commerce, through medium-
and long-term finance and equity investments. In lending, it gives preference
to projects sponsored and financed by Malawian interests, and encourages
foreign investors to find local partners. INDEBANK is, however, prohibited
from financing projects sponsored by Government ministers, chairmen of public
corporations and executives of the Malawi Congress Party. INDEBANK plays a
catalytic role in promoting projects proposed by the Press Holdings Group,
MDC and the Government; it also mobilizes foreign sources of capital and
technological expertise. More recently, INDEBANK started promoting projects
on its own and initiated three small projects in 1976-77. INDEBANK's eval-
uation of projects, although subject to improvements, is helping to raise
standards in the entire financial community. Compared to other Malawian
institutions, INDEBANK's most distinctive feature is its independence from
the Government and local interest groups.
Ownership and Resources
36.       INDEBANK's founders and present shareholders are ADMARC and three
bilateral development agencies, Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC),
Deutsche Entwicklungs Gesellschaft (DEG) of Germany and Nederlandse Financier-
ings-Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden N.V. (FMO) of Holland. A compre-
hensive Finance and Cooperation Agreement, signed at INDEBANK's inception by
the Government, INDEBANK and its shareholders, defines the mutual rights and
obligations of the parties. INDEBANK's Board includes one director and one
alternate appointed by each shareholder, and is chaired by ADMARC's chairman.
In consideration of IFC's proposed equity investment, INDEBANK has offered
IFC a seat on its Board of Directors. The foreign shareholders play a useful
role in providing both technical advice and quality control for INDEBANK's
activities. The four shareholders provided, pari passu, all of INDEBANK's
resources through 1977. On a need basis, they increased the paid-up share
capital in each year and followed each increase by issuing a threefold amount
in income notes, a peculiar form of long-term debt (para. 37). At the end of
1977, INDEBANK had received MK 2,840,000 in share capital and MK 7,350,000 in
income notes, and the shareholders have recently complemented these amounts
with MK 3 million in share capital and MK 9 million in income notes.
37.       Income Notes.  As specified in the Finance and Cooperation Agreement,
interest on income notes is limited to 8 percent per annum, payable out of
available earnings after deduction of all other expenses. Because of satis-
factory profits, INDEBANK has consistently been able, since inception, to pay
8 percent interest on income notes. Income notes which are convertible into
shares at par, at the option of the holder, are unsecured and become repayable
in the year 2020, by which time the holders would decide on whether or not to
convert them into equity. Holders can demand prepayment in case of INDEBANK's
liquidation, its nationalisation, or if INDEBANK fails to meet any of its
contractual obligations with the shareholders, such as the payment of interest
on income notes. The shareholders view such prepayment provisions as a means
of ensuring that INDEBANK carries out its business in accordance with the



- 11 -
general objectives agreed at its inception. It is not expected, however, that
INDEBANK's shareholders would request prepayment of income notes in a way that
would place INDEBANK in financial jeopardy, since such an action would be
contrary to the shareholders' interests. Probably only a serious dispute
between the Government of Malawi and the foreign shareholders could lead to
prepayment. Such a situation would in itself require a complete revision of
INDEBANK's financial structure. If any of INDEBANK's shareholders should
decide to request prepayment of income notes from INDEBANK, the Bank would be
advised in advance and would also be entitled to demand prepayment of its loan
(Sections 4.05 and 5.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Policies
38.       INDEBANK's investment policies have been amplified over time by a
series of special resolutions of its Board. Normally INDEBANK will not invest
in infrastructure projects, participate in refinancing operations, accept
management responsibilities in the enterprises it finances, nor provide more
than 35 percent of the total equity investment in a project. Sponsors are
required to put up at least 25 percent of the total cost of their projects.
These policies have been incorporated in a single policy statement.
39.       Exposure in a Single Project.  INDEBANK's loan limit (raised last
April from MK 600,000 to MK 1.0 million when INDEBANK's share capital was
increased from MK 3.0 million to MK 4.0 million) can be exceeded at the
Board's discretion in projects of particular national importance. So far,
INDEBANK has made loans of more than MK 600,000 to two projects: a MK I
million loan to the Dwangwa Sugar Company and a MK 0.9 million loan, fol-
lowed by another loan of MK 0.3 million, to General Farming, one of the
largest producers of flue-cured tobacco in the world, producing about 20
percent of Malawi's total exports. Both projects are of particular national
importance. In addition, two publicly owned corporations each received suc-
cessive loans totalling more than MK 600,000 but these are guaranteed by
the Government. INDEBANK's total exposure (loan plus equity) in a single
enterprise will not exceed 25 percent of INDEBANK's net worth except that
the limit may be exceeded in cases of projects of particular national impor-
tance provided INDEBANK obtains a Government guarantee for any financing in
excess of the limit (Section 4.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
40.       Provisions.  INDEBANK has no formal policy for provisions for
possible losses on investments. In view of the quality and youth of its
portfolio, it has simply limited dividends to 75 percent of net profit, thus
building up its retained earnings in a general reserve now amounting to about
one percent of total portfolio. This practice is acceptable for the time
being. For the future, however, INDEBANK will retain its earnings in a
general reserve in an amount adequate to cover possible portfolio losses and
will make specific provisions for projects in difficulty in accordance with
its auditors' recommendations. (Section 4.12 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 12 -
Management Organisation and Staff
41.       INDEBANK's General Manager since 1972 has been seconded from CDC.  In
April 1978, INDEBANK designated a Malawian national to succeed the incumbent
General Manager when the latter's contract expires in mid-1979. The designee,
who has held several senior government posts including that of General Manager
of the Malawi Central Bank, should benefit greatly from the one year he would
spend with the incumbent. INDEBANK has two departments for the promotion and
appraisal of agricultural and industrial projects; a third reviews the finan-
cial aspects of project proposals and follows up the implementation of approved
projects, while a fourth department is in charge of general accounting. All
four departments have a total of ten professionals who, though well qualified,
are relatively inexperienced. Only the accounting department manager is a
Malawian. In support of its projected operational growth and to improve its
management generally, INDEBANK has recently adopted a plan under which (i) a
Controller of Project Investigations will be recruited to coordinate project
appraisal work; (ii) a third Projects Investigation Manager with an engineer-
ing background will be recruited to reduce current dependence on consultants'
services in project appraisal; (iii) five Malawian university graduates will
be recruited to INDEBANK's staff this year and (iv) at least two Malawian
staff members will be sponsored for overseas training annually. The proposed
staffing and staff development plans are satisfactory. Completion of items
(i) and (ii) and the selection of the graduates under item (iii) are condi-
tions of effectiveness for the proposed loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Procedures
42.       INDEBANK's project appraisals are good but can be further improved
in the following respects: (i) appraisal reports are sketchy and not properly
coordinated with inputs from the marketing, financial and technical analysis
departments; (ii) INDEBANK relies exclusively on outside consultants and
promoters' views for the engineering evaluation of projects, and (iii) eco-
nomic analysis of projects is not thorough. The first two weaknesses should
be remedied with the recruitment of the Controller of Project Investigation
and the new Projects Investigation Manager. INDEBANK would make formal
evaluation of projects, including the calculation of economic rates of return
(Section 2.03(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
43.       INDEBANK submits progress reports on all projects financed at each
Board meeting. However, because of its limited staff, INDEBANK makes few
formal follow-up visits in situ, relying rather on the regular reporting from
its clients or focusing on a few projects in difficulty. This light follow-up
has proved sufficient until now due to the good quality and limited size of
its portfolio. The staffing plan includes the recruitment in 1978 of two
professionals for follow-up work. To formalize procedures in anticipation
of the projected growth in operations, INDEBANK's management, with the Bank's
assistance, is now preparing operational manuals for project appraisal and
follow-up. INDEBANK's other procedures for disbursement and procurement are
generally adequate.



-13-
44.       INDEBANK makes loans with maturities of 3 to 15 years and takes
adequate security. It normally charges annual interest rates of 9.5 percent
in agriculture, 10.5-11 percent in industry and 11-12 percent in commerce
and real estate. These rates are consistent with the country's interest rate
structure, and provide INDEBANK with a good margin over the interest rate of
8 percent per annum on income notes. In the past, all INDEBANK's resources
came from its shareholders and were denominated in Malawi Kwacha. For all
operations financed with foreign currency borrowings, INDEBANK will pass on
the foreign exchange risk to its clients.
Past Operations and Results
45.       Operations.  From its inception in 1972 to December 1977, INDEBANK
had approved total investments of MK 13 million, 87 percent in loans and 13
percent in equity, in 31 projects. Its operations grew rapidly to MK 3.9 mil-
lion in its first year of operations but levelled off thereafter at an average
of MK 2.6 million per year, due to INDEBANK's prudent investment policy.
Given its small professional staff size until 1977, its volume of approvals
indicates a staff productivity level which compares favorably with most DFCs
at the same stage of development. In addition, INDEBANK's project processing
record is good. The time between approval and commitment and between com-
mitment and full disbursement average 4-1/2 and 5 months respectively.
46.       The total cost of projects approved by INDEBANK (excluding the
exceptionally large project at Dwangwa Sugar with a total cost of MK 59 mil-
lion) averages MK 2.1 million; 81 percent of all the projects approved have
total costs which range between MK 1.0 million and MK 6.0 million. INDEBANK's
investment (loan plus equity) per project ranges mostly (70 percent of the
amount approved) between MK 200,000 and MK 600,000, and averages MK 415,000 or
20 percent of total project costs. Most projects are under majority Malawian
ownership (79 percent by amount) and primarily use local raw materials (78
percent). Despite their relatively large size, INDEBANK's investments are
reasonably labor-intensive and show an average investment cost per job of
US$13,000, notably below the overall average of about US$25,000 observed among
other African DFCs. Financial rates of return calculated for a sample of
INDEBANK's projects show an average of about 24 percent. The total amount
of approvals is distributed among three main sectors: 54 percent in industry
and agro-industry, 19 percent in pure agriculture (mostly tobacco growing -
16 percent) and 17 percent in commercial buildings and housing.
47.       Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1977, INDEBANK held a portfolio
of MK 9.9 million in 27 projects. Two-thirds of these projects are already
completed and only three (10 percent by amount) are causing some concern but
they are guaranteed by ADMARC, MDC and CDC respectively; INDEBANK is follow-
ing them closely and providing advice to their management. Apart from these
three, all companies operating in INDEBANK's portfolio made profits in FY76
and one-third of them, accounting for 29 percent of portfolio amount, showed
net returns above 20 percent on equity. As of November 30, 1977, eight loans -
representing 33 percent of total outstanding portfolio - had commenced repay-
ments. INDEBANK had no interest or principal arrears. Overall, the quality
of INDEBANK's portfolio is good and ranks above average among African DFCs.



- 14 -
48.       Despite its youth, INDEBANK has shown a proficient financial man-
agement and is already one of the most profitable DFCs in Africa. Net earn-
ings before tax have increased at an average rate of 100 percent per year and
reached MK 154,000 in 1977; this represented a return of 6.2 percent on
average equity.
Resource Requirements
49.       At the end of 1977, INDEBANK had a large and diversified pipeline
of 36 possible projects which would require INDEBANK financing of MK 16 mil-
lion. Based on this pipeline and taking into account the development of
INDEBANK's promotional activities, INDEBANK's total commitments in loans and
equity investments are projected to total MK 17.2 million (US$18.9 million
equivalent) over the three-and-a-half-year period from 1978 to mid-1981.
After deducting cash generation projected at MK 4.0 million over the same
period and the surplus of uncommitted resources of MK 2.3 million carried over
from 1977, new resources of MK 10.9 million are required. INDEBANK has
already secured from the European Investment Bank (EIB) a loan of 3 million
units of account (approximately MK 3 million) which was signed in November
1977. The use of this loan is, however, restricted to manufacturing industry,
mining and tourism. In addition, the shareholders have agreed to contribute
up to MK 4 million to cover part of INDEBANK's needs during the next four
years, although the final form of this contribution is not yet determined.
The proposed IBRD loan (about MK 2.6 million equivalent) and IFC's MK 0.5
million investment would cover most of the remaining gap, and INDEBANK should
be able to raise the balance without great difficulties. The Bank loan and
IFC investment would be financing about 24 percent of INDEBANK's total commit-
ments over the two and a half year period 1979 to mid-1981.
50.       Share Capital.  Considering INDEBANK's sound portfolio and the
special nature of its repayment obligations on income notes, INDEBANK can
moderately increase its debt-to-equity ratio which has remained below 3:1 in
the past, but an upper limit of 4:1 should be set on this ratio in view of
INDEBANK's relative youth. On this basis, INDEBANK has to raise about MK 1.5
million in new share capital through mid-1981. The current four shareholders
have agreed to provide MK 250,000 each of their expected contribution of MK 1
million during this period in the form of share capital, the remaining
MK 750,000 being income notes except for CDC which has indicated that it
would provide its MK 750,000 equivalent as a sterling loan instead of income
notes. The proposed IFC equity investment of MK 500,000 (US$562,000 equiva-
lent) will cover the remaining share capital required. This subscription
would give IFC about 11 percent of INDEBANK's share capital.
The Proposed Loan
51.       The proceeds of the proposed loan of US$3 million will be used by
INDEBANK to provide medium- and long-term financing for fixed investments and
permanent working capital for medium- to large-scale projects in industry,
agro-industry and tourism, excluding smallholder agriculture, commercial
buildings and trade. The individual project free limit would be set at
US$100,000 and the aggregate free limit at US$750,000. At this level, the



- 15 -
Bank would review about 80 percent of the number of projects submitted and thus
monitor closely the improvements expected from the consolidation of INDEBANK's
procedures. The proceeds of the proposed loan in any single project would be
limited to MK 600,000 to avoid the loan being used up by a few larger projects
(Section 2.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). INDEBANK will on-lend the pro-
ceeds of the proposed loan at an interest rate of 10.5 to 11.0 percent per
annum and will pass on the foreign exchange risk to its borrowers.
The Proposed IFC Investment
52.       An IFC investment of MK 500,000 (equivalent to about US$562,000) in
the share capital of INDEBANK has been requested by the company, which would
give IFC 11.1 percent of INDEBANK's share capital. This additional share
capital would enable INDEBANK during the commitment period of the Bank loan,
to remain within the 4:1 debt/equity limitation agreed with the Bank. It
would also provide INDEBANK with additional funds needed for making equity
investments. By investing in the share capital of INDEBANK, IFC would be
supporting an institution which has been the main source of assistance and
encouragement to the development of the private sector in Malawi, with over
80 percent of its financial assistance having been extended to companies which
have substantial private ownership. INDEBANK's current shareholders consider
INDEBANK's support of the private sector in Malawi to be an important role,
as has been demonstrated by its past operations. IFC's representation on
INDEBANK's Board of Directors, especially at this time of a change in the
top management of the company, is also expected to make a significant con-
tribution to the development of INDEBANK's policies and operations.
53.       The proposed IFC investment is expected to be reasonably profitable.
The discounted return on the investment is expected to be about 9.0 percent,
given the projected dividends and assuming capital appreciation resulting
from selling shares at net asset value and no change in the kwacha/dollar
exchange rate. Given the forecast that INDEBANK's profitability and dividend
yield will continue to increase, its shares could become a reasonably attrac-
tive investment, especially for an institutional investor such as one of the
half-dozen financial institutions in the country. However, being a private
limited company, the potential marketability of INDEBANK's shares is affected
by its Articles of Association, which limit the number of shareholders to 50
and prohibit a public offering. The Articles also provide that, should any
shareholder wish to sell his shares, then the other shareholders have pre-
emptive rights at a sales price to be agreed with the directors. The current
shareholders have agreed that if IFC should want to sell its shares, then the
price would be the shares' net asset value. In addition, ADMARC has agreed
to give IFC a put option whereby, if the existing shareholders do not take up
IFC's shares offered to them and IFC has been unable to find other purchasers,
then IFC may require ADMARC to buy its shares at their net asset value over a
period of 4 years after IFC had held the shares for 8 years.
54.       Through this investment IFC would provide both financial assistance
to support INDEBANK's operations as well as technical assistance by sitting on
its Board of Directors. The investment would meet IFC's objectives of support-
ing the private sector in the smaller and poorer countries through establishing



- 16 -
closer links with local DFCs. It also promises to be a reasonable investment
from the point of view of profitability and marketability. An outline of
relevant laws of the Republic of Malawi affecting the investment by IFC is
attached to the Staff Appraisal Report.
Procurement
55.       Procurement under INDEBANK-assisted projects is undertaken on the
basis of competitive quotations with close attention to both prices and the
quality of machinery and equipment. In the past, INDEBANK's lack of engineers
with appropriate experience limited the coverage of this practice so that on
occasions, INDEBANK used consultants. The Project Investigations Manager for
technical evaluations (para. 41) being recruited under the proposed project
will further improve this practice. Overall, INDEBANK's procurement practices
are satisfactory.
56.       Disbursements.  The proceeds of the loan will be disbursed for
eligible sub-projects against: (i) the foreign exchange cost of imported
equipment and services; (ii) up to 75 percent of the cost of equipment pre-
viously imported into Malawi and purchased locally; and (iii) up to 50 percent
of the total cost of civil works, representing the foreign exchange component.
Project Justification
57.       INDEBANK is the most independent, reputable and efficient institu-
tion involved in financing industrial development in Malawi. The projects
that it has helped to implement are profitable, relatively labour-intensive
and primarily based on local raw materials. It has played a useful role in
bringing foreign capital and technology into the country, and in improving
the standards of project selection. Supported by a capable management and
experienced shareholders, INDEBANK has carefully built-up a good portfolio
and a solid financial situation. It now plans to consolidate its operational
procedures and staffing to enter a second stage of its development in which it
will increase its activities in project promotion and expand the volume of its
investments substantially.
58.       The proposed Bank loan would be the first one to INDEBANK.  It would
enable INDEBANK to achieve its planned higher investment levels and will give
the Bank Group the opportunity to participate actively in the future develop-
ment of the sector through an efficient financial intermediary. By assisting
INDEBANK, through a continous relationship, in training its Malawian staff,
rationalizing its procedures and developing the new project promotion policies,
the Bank Group could have a significant impact on the institution at this
early stage of its development. The improvements in INDEBANK's general
policies fostered by the Bank Group involvement should further strengthen the
institution (paras. 38-40). In addition, the proposed Bank loan would help
finance investments totalling about US$15 million and generating about 1,100
jobs. The on-going study of small-scale enterprises development (para 23)
would enable the Bank to collaborate early with the Government in formulating
a policy for future SSI development.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Investment and
Development Bank of Malawi Ltd., the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Republic of Malawi and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the
text of a resolution approving the proposed IFC investment are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section 3 of Annex
III. Recruitment by INDEBANK of (i) a Controller of Project Investigations
and (ii) a Projects Investigation Manager in charge of technical analysis,
and selection of five additional Malawian professionals to be trained by
INDEBANK are conditions of effectiveness (para. 41).
61.       In accordance with Section 3 (ii) of Article III of the Articles
of Agreement of the Corporation, the Government of Malawi has been notified
of the proposed investment.
62.       Malawi is a Contracting State for the purposes of the ICSID Conven-
tion. However, there are no contracts or arrangements between the Government
of Malawi and any national of another Contracting State in the context of this
investment which might give rise to an investment dispute.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and that the proposed investment would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Corporation.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that (a) the Executive Directors of the Bank approve
the proposed loan and that (b) the Board of Directors of the Corporation
approve the proposed investment by the Corporation.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
May _, 1978



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
}fiLAWI             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND  AREA (THOU KS2)                     ------ -       ----------             
TOTAL  116.5                      HA.JMULAWI  OSRENTREFERENCE COUNTR IES (1970)
TOTAL      118.5                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      41.2                       1960      1970   ESTIMATE          SOMALIA         TANZANIA      SWAZ_LND *
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     40.0      70.0      140.0               80.0       100.0 Ia  210.0
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
_- -- -- -- -- -- - - -- - -- - -- - -- - - - -                              .
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            3.5       4.5       5.2                 2.8        12.9 /a      0.42
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      29.0       36.0    44.0                   4.0        14.0  Ia   24.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       92.0     114.0   126.0                    9.0        25.0 Ca    30.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)-       49.0       49.3       47.7               47.7        S0.5       50.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE U/THOU,AV)         30.6       28.1       23.7               23.6        23.0       24.6
LNFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ..        ..      142.0                 ..    160-16!Vb
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      35.0       36.5       41.0               38.5        41.8       41.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2       3.2        3.2                3.0         3.2         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                2.2        2.6       2.4                 2.4         3.0/a       2.7
URBAN                                 5.5       5.0        5.3                6.1         5.6        13.6
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           4.4       5.6        6.4               25.6         5.5b       10.3
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      42.9       43.9       45.4               46.5        44.4/b,    46.6/a
15 TO 64 YEARS                      53.2       62.1       51.3               51.6        53.0/b     49.1/a
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.9       4.0        2.3                1.9         2. Cb       4.3r,
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9       0.9         .9                0.9         o 9/b       1 .0/a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0/a     1-1/a       *-                 .2b 1.2/ a-b    1.2/b
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)           ..        ..         ..
USERS I% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..        ..         ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         1700.0   2000.    2300.0                1100.0      soo.o/a b 180.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (1)         93.0      69.0       86.0               62.0        91.O   b  86.5
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)            ..         ..        ..               20.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..      29.5         *-                 *-        33.5
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              .       5 52.9        .                 ..        63.3
LOWEST  20% Of HOUSEHOLDS              ..       5.7         .                  *-         2.2
LOWEST  401 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..      15.0         ..                 .-         7.S
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..        ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..        ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                      75250.0                       21420.0    21570.0/a   6100.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             .      20.0                        3260.0/C   490.0/a
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           940.0/b  760.0                          560.0       7000./a    300.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)         86.0     103.0     103.0                80.0        73.0        90.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              50.0      54.0       68 4               57.0        43.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           .0/C     9          9/ 9              27.0/d      23.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..        ..
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO            6
PRIMARY SCHOOL                     63.0        40-0       61.0               10.0        35.0        30.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      1.0       2.0        3.0                S.0         3.0        19.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             14.0      14.0       14.0               12.0        13.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                    24.0        3.0        8.5                 .-        io.o/c       2.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (K)                  ..      22.0         *-                5.0          *-        30.0
HOUS I NG
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..        1.9/c     1.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER ()                         ..      1-0/c.d    *-                    *-       30.0 /b0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(I OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..      16.o/c d                        *-          *-         9.0
RURAL DwELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     ..         ..        ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          9..0/d    20.0      26.0                1s.0        1l.o       74.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            ..        2.0       2.3                 2.0         3.0       10.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           10.0       22.0      56.0                10.0        31.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                ..       0.05       0.06                0.2         0.1
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONs ON REVERSE



-19~~~ 7
Unless othermis noted, dao* for 1960 refer to any year betweea 1959  qd 1961. for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, tnd for Host bRent Estimate betwen
1973 snd 1976
a  Swazillad has beea selcted as an objective cestry bsuse the ecorceic structure of both countriro  are quite similar.
KALAVI       1960    /a  Ratio of population under 15 end 65  and over to total labor force,    lb  1963              /c  1961-63;    /d  including data for
Southern Rhodesia  ad  Zmbia.
1970    /a   aetio of population under 15 aind 65 end over to total labor torce;    lb  1964-6;    IC  1967;    Jd  Urban only.
HOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  Ratio of population 15 and 63 and oer to total labor force.
SGKALIA      1970    /a  RAtio of population uader 15 and 65 ad over to total labor force;    /b  Urban only;    Le  Includiug nidvives and
seel1tant note.;    /d  196S-o.
TANZANiIA    1970    /a  Mainland Tanzanial    /b  1967;    Le  1965;    id  As percentage of'urbaa bouseholds.
SWAZILAND   1970    /a  1966;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end Over to total labor farce.
-11, April 17. 1918
IMWIUDTZ0N  oF Sg1L   tDWICATIRF
Land Area (thou i'2)                                                                          uoonlation oar nuroing parsan - Population ditided by n.-ber of pr..tietog
Total - Ttcl surface aree copriuteg lend area ed intlnd weere.                                    al e and fel  graduAte euruso, "tr-ned" or "tertifitd" nue-so. and
Mrii. - Hlost recent setite of agricultural area "aed temporarily or Pears-                    auxiliary personnel with treniing or  xperience.
neatly for Crope, pe kuro, earbat & kit.h.n garden  or to  II* fallow.                      Popualtion ner hoital thod - Fopulrti- dividd by p        oahr Of hospital  bod
available tn pubIc. ed pri- .t  go...r-1 and  peilodhospital sod
GNiP ner cuSt. bJUSj - GIP per capita estimates at current marker pries,                        rehabilitation reuters; ..cludes nurstng hboes and eatblishlents for
elcull3Led by sane rco-rino  vthod as World seek Atlas (1974-76 basis),                       ustodial sf3 preventive coe.r
1960.; 1970 mnd 1976 date.                                                                   otr capita enpi, of ralorfes 1% of rof,uirenent.  - Conput*d ftr3 energy
4quivalut of net food supplies available in country per capita per day;
Ponuletton end vital tatiutice                                                                  available euppli.a eopriac demotic productin, ieports lss expert., ead
rfopoltion fold-veer t4l11Inl - As of July first:  If not avsilable,  er*g                      changes in stock; net eupplios erclude an.inl feed, .sed., quantities seed
of rue end-year eurits; 1960, 1970  nd 1976 data.                                             in food proacesieg ead loose.  in distribution; requiresmnt. wera estimated
by PAO based on physiological needs for nore,l sctivity and beelth eonsid-
PIoraItiou densitv - per musre Io - Mid-yer populatin per square kilote*r arnn   a eirotsnt.1 temperature, body  eighte,  ge end sax di.tribwtione of
(100 hoctate.) of tutr  area.                                                                 population, nd alloaing 101 fur waute *t honoehold level.
Pop1letion demitv - oer souse ra  of asri,e land - Computed as above ftr                      Per capits supply of protein (crene per dey) - Protein content of per capit.
agricultural land only.                                                                       nt supply of food vet dy; net supply of faod is defined as above; require-
mania for all coutries established by USDA Ecoanmic Resea.rch S.rvice.
Vital statistics                                                                                provide for a ninsom,  allowance of 60 greta of total protein per day, nd
Crude birth rate per thousand. evera-e - Annual liv  birtba per thousand of                      20 Srems of *ntial *ad paise protein, of  hb-h 10  Ere    should be anianl
mid-ye-r population; ten-year *rith-tie averaes andiog In 1960 end 1970,                      proctin; those otndards sre loser thou those of 75 Sr-  of total pretein
end five-year  -verse. ending in 1975 far mtos recnout  stimte.                                ad 23 Sram. of anies-  protein as en average for the world, prpomemd by fAO
Crude death rein  per thousand. av-rog  - Annual dastho per thousand of mid-year                in the Third World FoOd Survey.
population; tsn-yesr  rithretic averages  nding in 1960 and 1970 end                        Foe-  er ..pits prot.ia supply freom pnnal aud pls.e - Protein supply of food
Iysr averge ending in 1975 for most recent  stmat.                                            derived fron sniels and pulses in gre  per day.
.  Infant mortality r.ts 1/thou)   A nnual deaths of infants undr oe  y*ar of age                Death rate i/thou) as.s 1-4 - Annual dasth  per tiousend gn sae gro,p 1-4
per thoceond live birth..                                                                     yers, to childrn in this age Sroup; suggeoted as en indicator of
Life esptc:qcyX at birth (yrul  - Average number of yere of life remaining at                   malnutrition.
bitth; usually iive-ysr averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing  uaot,rise.                                                                             Euato
*Crass -eproduction rare - Average  -bshr of live daughter  a woan .ril boar                    Adjsteerollment ratic -  oriary school - Eurul1mant of all agee s ..pgr-
in hor  .r-nal reproductiv  period if she experine  pres*nt  *gt-speifir                      cantag  of primary schoio-age populttion; includv  children aged 6-11 yers
fertility terse; uully five-year seregs   ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                       but edjuted for different length. of primalry  ducatian; fur eountries with
for dve-luping coutries.                                                                       nivers.l educa.tion, onru1lneat nay exced lOT since s-  pupils are below
Population frotth rste (t) - totol - Cempound annual growth rates of mid-7eanr  sbove the official school a..
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 *nd 1970-75.                                                Adjusttd enrolloent ntio - ...n-d.ry *chool - Computed  as above; secondary
Population grOvth rate  f21 - urben - Cemputmd lik  groeth ratr  of total                       education requires at l1sat fuor years of approved primary inttruntion;
population; different definition  of urban seems my offect enoparobility of                   prooideo gnenr-l, evoati-nal or toacher training instructions for pupilo
date snS countries,                                                                           of 12 to 17 years of ago; correspondence course sre ganerslly excluded.
Urban popultion (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                  YEa  of erhoolina provided ifirot and second leve-1.  - Total years of
definitions of urban areoa my  affect cemparability of data among eountrie.                    chooling  at secondary 1ev1, vocational inntruction my be partially or
Co*petely 1 xluded.
a" structure (percent) - Children (0-14 yea"), working-age (13-6  yeoar),                     Voatioal enrollmnt (5 ef  condaty) - Vocational institution   include
end redirod (61 years and ever) as percngSa of mid-year popultion                            tch=nical, indutrial  or othearpg  -hinhsre independ ntly or as
Age dependency r-tio - Ratio of population under 15  nd 65 and oer to those                     deprtmnts of secndary inatitutiona.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                      Adult literacy ratr   _    - Literate  dults (fble to red and wrtte) as per-
!conneic dspeudadv ratio  - Ratio of populition onder 15 and 63 sad oser to                     cntege of total adult popultion aged 15 years *nd oer.
thn labor focrc in mg. group of 15-64 yare.
FaDily Pl..eloc - acc-ptors (c-ulati-. thou) - Cuoulativa saber of aceoptors                  WouasIn&
of birth-control deviasa under auspices of netional fmily planing progr_                    Ferons per room  (urban) - Avereg  utabor of persons per room in occupied
Fenily Plni. c - user.     a of mrri-d wmen) - perc ntage.  of marrid   ene  of                   tructures and u1ogcupind parts.
child-b-aritg  g  (1-44  reac) who use birth-control devices to all marrid                   .oeupied dwellins without piped water 11  -  cOtupid cemontienal dwellings
in urban end rural  Sreo wIthout inside or outoid. piped  water f-ilitisa
as petrca...g t.Of all oCrpisd delns
Total1 shr forc  Ithonead) - fnonemically active persona, including areed                         letciy inliving quarters as percent of  statl dwellings io urban and
res snd unmployed bat s.cloding heusawive, StWdent, act.; Wdinitreml                                                                          Convsnti   I drural eyes.
is varIo s countrir  are not coparh. r            b    f- rr dllin    cononed to eI-ctricity (TI  - Computed as bov  for rural
buoting S*d fishing)  a percentage of total Iabor force.
IU-mplYo4d iT  of labor force)    - n_ployed *r  usua ly defined as persons who                C0n0DtIon
era able sod willng to take   Job, ou  of a job em a  g         en y, remained ou              d      i     f       th- son   - All types Of receivrs for radio hrosdc ;te
ef a Jb, and    bi   woh for a specifIed miibom, perid not e xe edig oneto   aa    p c pr tand                                   of popubi        x    e      i     e  r eceiver;
week; naY 0ot ha comparable between  oountri.. due to different drei otries end in                                       P yer  wen r    on    onnf radio taia we  in  afrt
of tuninpofd and  ource of data, e.g., eploymt ofc  statistics, .mps                           dot. for recant  ye   ma   hno bo  *emrerhia sfi  lo  cousrilsa aboifhed
suruopa, compulsory anamploymeet Insurmame.                                                                             ma      b    mirteeI..NaeContieAboise
I-    dt.trib  Par .. t-g- -f Priv.to iasener ore parthoupop   - Pbnatar  arecompiseanaaneas setin
Inros dstrbutin -Perestae o  prvat  inoma  bot  is  ashandkled       las   an  ight prosecude. ambuisursa, hearses ed military
r.rsiv-d by richest 52, rith..t 20T, poorest 2OT, end poorest 401 of bous.-veils
holds.                                                               glec~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1triciry (kuh/yr put  sp)_ - Annua  conmtonf industrial, cosercrial,
Dt.tlb.tm of1-4  wamrhip   pere.te.4 O  lmdOwne  by  a.Itj*,t10%Public and Prio-ta ele-ctriity in kilowatt houre per rspita, S ..... ly
endtrPhn-io of% lan ownedship-   Pretgso   mdwedbwalbec01baaed on prOd-tion d.t., without alacefor l1osen in grids hut allow
and prorsar 10% of land awnors.                                       ~~~~ing for Imprt. and exports of eletricity.
H'e.lth *nd Nt Arition                                                                         X_sprint (be/rt per Can) - Per capita annus  tonumption in kilogr,
PopH ltih   per phsStn - PoP1tion divd.d by ...ber ofstiated  item domestic production plus eat iports of neaprist.
physi.IsOe  qtuasIfid from a medios  school at  interaity leve.



ANNEX  I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                          ANNUAL RATE OF CROWTH (Z. constant prices)
US$ Mln.           X                                 1964-75            1976
CNP at Market Prices            687.8          100.0                                   6.5             0.9
Gross Domestic lnvestment       123.4           17.9                                 11.5            -38.5
Gross National Savings           60.0            8.7                                 14.n            -22.0
Current Account Balance         -63.4           -9.2
Exports of Goods, NYS           202.6           29.5                                   7.5             6.6
Imports of Goods, NFS           246.4           35.8                                  6.7            -18.7
OUTPUT, -EMLOYMENT AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                       Labor Force                     V. A. Per Worker
115 Mmn.      2                 Thousand          2                US$ Mln.        2
Agriculture                     311.4     46.2                    1300         85.3                239.5        54.1
Industry                        121.5     18.0                      75          4.9               1620.0      .366.2
Services    .                   241.8     35.8                     150     *   9.9                1612.0       364.4
Total/Average             674.7    100.0                    1525        100.0                 424 4       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Covernment
K Nln                Z of CDP
-i        1T 975/76       1972/73-1974/75
Current Receipts                                       89.7         15.2            15.4
Current Expenditures                                  84.4          14.3            14.9
Current Surplus                                         5.3          o.9              0.5
Capital Expenditures                                   70.0         11.9              7.6
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this Annex are at the Average exchange rate prevailing during tbe period covered
1/ Total labor force defined as male population between 15 and 60 years of are plus women actually vi.ployed.
?/ Tlhe fiscal year is from April to hiarch; the CDP bas ',een adjusted according-y.
. not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
_ 21 -
COUNTRY DATA - MAIAWI
1/
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                             1972      1973     1974      1975      1976     1977 June
(Million K outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                             62.9      84.6    1t1.7    122.4    121.0         146.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                      11.1      12.1     20.0      67.4     88.1         93.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     35.6      33.0     49.4      56.1     76.5         89.2
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as x of GDP                 16.9      21.1     23.8      21.4      18.7
General Price Index (1970-100)                   112.1    117.8    134.6    150.5    163.8
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                3.6       5.1     14.3      11.8       8.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                     136.2       9.0     65.3    237.0      30.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector                      1.4      -7.3     49.7      13.6     36.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-1976)
US$ HMln 
1973     1974     1975      1976           Tobacco                    59.1     42.0
0(illions US$)                     Tea                        24.9      17.7
Croundnuts                 8.7      &62
ExPorts of Goods, NFS                122A1   151.7    179.4    202.6             Sugar                      14.7      10.4
ImPorts of Goods, NFS                167.6    214.1    284.0    246.4            All Other Commodities    33.3       23 7
Resource Balance                     -45.5    -63.4   - 1046    -43.8               Total                  140.7    100.0
Interest Payments (net)               -3.6     -4.0      -5.4     -5.5         EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1976
Other Factor Payments (net)         i  4.6     18.8      17.3    -14.2
Net Current Transfers               1  7.1     .5.7       6.1      5.5                                              US$Ml.n
Balance of Current Account          i-37.4    -41.9    -86.6    -58.0
a                                r~~~~~~~~~ublic Debt,  cinc   guaranteed  258.1
Direct Private Foreign Investment  11.4        14.9       9.9      8.2           Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Net MLT Borrowing                                                                Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Disbursements                      25.8     37.4     42.3      34.0
Amortizations                       2.4      2.6      2.9       3.3         NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976
Subtotal                           23.4     34 .8    39.4      30.7                                                 1
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed         6.2
Other Capital (net)      ,            2S.3      1.6    -17.9    -30.1            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Increase in Reserves (+)              33.3     16.4    -47.1    -38.3            Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)             66.7     81.8      65.5     26.2
Petroleum Imports                     11.2     17.9      22.9     26.1
Petroleum Re-exports                   2.1      1.0        -        -
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                               IURD/IDA LENTING,    (April 30, 1978)  (Mln US$)
1975   1976   Jan. -July 1977   July 1977                                                        IBRD    IDA
US15$ =K           .8662  .9130       .9080           .8998
Kl  - US$        1.1545 1.0953       1.1013          1.1114                      Outstanding & Disbursed             3.4   82.6
Undisbursed                       22.8   39.4
Outstanding inct. Undisbursed   26.2  122.0
I/ IMP, International Financial Statistics, June 1977
May 24, 1978



- 22 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of April 30, 1978)
Amount US$ Million
(less cancellations)
Bank
(incl.
Loan or                                                  Third
Credit No.   Year    Borrower         Purpose             Window)    IDA   Undisbursed
Eight Credits have been fully disbursed                               58           -
282-MAI      1972   Republic of   Agriculture-
Malawi        Karonga                             6.6        0.4
S-17-MAI     1974       "           Transport engineering              2.0        0.4
and Services
523-MAI      1975       "           Second Highway                    10.0        4.1
550-MAI      1975       "           Agriculture-                       8.5        2.4
Lilongwe III
590-MAI      1976                   Education II                      11.6        9.5
1286T-MAI    1976                   Agriculture-            9.2         -         5.8
Karonga II
1388-MAI     1977       "/ESCOM    Third Power              9.0                   9.0
1387-T-MAI      "       "                                   8.0                   8.0
691-MAI         "       "                                              8.0        5.1
711-NAI      1977                   Water Supply                       7.0        7.0
758-MAI      1977                   Third Highway /1                  10.5       10.5
TOTAL                                 26.2      122.2       62.2
of which has been repaid                -         0.2
Amount sold                             -          -
of which Repaid
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA /2   26.2        122.0
TOTAL Undisbursed                     22.8       39.4       62.2
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
B. Statement of IFC Investments in Malawi as at April 30, 1978
Investment Fiscal                 Type of                         Total Held   Total
Number    Year  Obligor         Business  Equity  Loan  Total   by IFC   Undisubrsed
326 MAI    1976   David           Textiles    -       6.0    6.0    6.0          1.5
Whitehead
& Sons
(Malawi) Ltd.
362 MAI    1977   Dwangwa Sugar  Sugar         -      9.0    9.0    9.0          9.0
Corporation    processing
Limited
Total                             15.0   15.0   15.0         10.5
C. Bank Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 282-MAI   Agriculture - Karonga Development Project; US$6.6 million
credit of January 26, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:
August 14, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Over 4 years (reduced from 5) the project would establish 1,000 ac
irrigated double cropped rice, 5,500 ac rainfed rice and improved cultivation
of maize, cotton and ground nuts on about 7,800 ac of existing smallholder
farms and livestock development. In addition it would provide for the con-
struction of a lake terminal, the provision of a barge, and extensions to a
district hospital and other health services.
Due to cost escalation the project period has been reduced from
five to four years. Only minor reductions of physical targets have occurred.
Completion of the irrigated double cropped rice scheme, reduced from 1,500 ac
to 1,000 ac was delayed due to exceptional flooding. Extension and research
are working satisfactorily. All necessary staff for the health component are
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
in post and bilharzia control is now a continuous program. Lake transporta-
tion has been generally improved, but the barge purchased under the credit
and put in operation in early 1976 proved defective and is currently being
repaired. In addition, IDA has agreed to use project funds to raise a jetty
at Chilumba harbour by 2 feet to avoid flooding caused by high tides. Design
work has been completed and tendering is now underway. The original closing
date has been postponed by one year to December 31, 1978 to allow sufficient
time to complete these works. A Project Completion Report is under preparation.
Credit No. S-17-MAI   Transport Engineering and Services Project; US$2 million
credit of June 13, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 28, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project will help determine the infrastructural requirements
and provide technical assistance for the exploitation of the Viphya forest
resources.  Necessary transportation studies and the design of the required
transport facilities have been completed. Part of the credit proceeds that
are still available are being used to finance consulting services to update
prior studies and to assist in putting together a financial package for
the proposed mill. The Closing Date was recently extended by one year to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 523-MAI   Second Highway Project; US$10.0 million credit of
December 19, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 21,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of (i) reconstruction to two-lane bituminous
paved standard of the Lilongwe-Kasungu road (about 73 miles), including
bypass around the Lilongwe industrial area and reconstruction of the Ligadzi
bridge; and (ii) a pilot program to improve the development and maintenance
of district roads. Construction works for the main road, some 8 months
behind schedule, are about 80 percent completed and savings of approximately
US$3.0 million are currently expected for this project component. First
results from the pilot program for district roads improvement and maintenance
submitted to the Association in March 1977 indicate clearly that the program
has been successful and that it is feasible to extend it to other districts.
The savings from the reconstruction component are being used to extend the
pilot program to seven additional districts. The Closing Date was recently
extended by four years to June 30, 1982.
Credit No. 550-MAI   Agriculture - Lilongwe Land Development Program Phase III;
US$8.5 million credit of May 27, 1975; Date of Effective-
ness: August 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project will continue extension, farm credit and infrastructure
maintenance for previously established units and expand the program to cover
an additional 210,000 ac. The project will provide for the construction of
15 unit centers with associated investments; survey and demarcate about
200,000 ac; continue development of the Dzalanyama ranch; introduce poultry



- 25 -
ANNEX II
and egg production and dairy development; expand and improve health facilities;
and carry out project evaluation and future project preparation. The project
infrastructure is now almost on schedule. Due to reduced input use as a
consequence of last season's high fertilizer prices and adverse weather con-
ditions, average maize and groundnut yields were larger in 1976 than in the
preceding year. However, overall production of high value crops such as
tobacco and groundnuts has increased considerably.  The stall feeder and
poultry programs are expanding rapidly, contributing to sizeable income
increase of small farmers. Credit administration and loan repayments con-
tinue to be outstanding. A consolidation phase of the project is under
appraisal as part of the National Rural Development Program project.
Credit No. 590-MAI   Second Education Project; US$11.6 million credit of
November 24, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: February 24,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The project will provide prototype construction models of primary
schools, strengthen the program of rural education, establish a new primary
teacher training college and add facilities for the teaching of practical
subjects in selected secondary schools, with emphasis on facilities for
girls. The project has made a good start in the design stage due to the
early appointment of consultant architects. The Project Implementation Unit
is functioning well. Construction of civil works and procurement of furniture
and equipment is generally proceeding satisfactorily. Project cost is within
the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1286-T-MAI   Second Karonga Rural Development Project; US$9.2 million
loan of June 24, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 18,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The project, financed on Third Window terms, consists of the provi-
sion of seasonal and medium-term credit to farmers, extension service, market
complexes, health facilities, boreholes and other infrastructural facilities,
agricultural and hydrological research, preparatory investments for the
National Rural Development Program, and rehabilitation of berthing facilities
at Chipoka Lake terminal. A civil works contractor has been selected for the
reconstruction of Chipoka harbor, and the contract is expected to be signed
shortly. Although understaffing hampers implementation efficiency in some
parts of Chitipa district, the project progress is satisfactory.
Loans No. 1388-MAI    Third Power Project, US$25.0 million; Loans and Credit
and 1007-T-MAI         of April 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  November 11,
Credit 691-MAI         1977; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The project will assist ESCOM in financing its investment program
to meet increased demand for power. The project consists of a rock-fill dam
on the Shire River at Nkula, a pressure cut and cover conduit, head-race
tunnel, penstock and tailrace outlet system, and a power house for five 18 MW
hydro units, two of which will be installed at this stage. The project also



- 26 -
ANNEX II
provides for consulting services and training. Bid results have shown that
the project cost will be within the appraisal estimate. Civil works contracts
have been awarded since April 1977, and the constractors are now proceeding
with the preparation of construction works. The Government has recently
advertised for replacements for the incumbent Chief Engineer and General
Manager, who will retire this year. The Bank is informally attempting to
assist the Government in locating suitable candidates.
Credit No. 711-MAI   Blantyre Water Supply Project; US$7.0 million  Credit
of June 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: April 18, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project will assist the Blantyre Water Board in financing its
Phase V Development Program to increase the capacity of the supply facili-
ties at Walker's Ferry on the Shire River and bring the existing pipeline,
between the intake station and Blantyre, to its maximum capacity. In addi-
tion, the project will make additional improvements in the distribution
system in the Blantyre area, including service to squatter areas. It would
also provide for consulting services and training.
Credit No. 758-MAI   Third Highway Project:  US$10.5 million; Credit of
January 18, 1978; Terminal Date for Effectiveness:
July 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of (a) constructing the 53-mile Kasungu-Jenda
road to two-lane bituminous surfaced standard, (b) strengthening three short
sections of the Zoba-Lilongwe road and (c) providing consultant services
for the supervision of (a) and (b) and for the feasibility and engineering
studies of the Jenda-Mzulu road. The terminal date for effectiveness of the
Credit Agreement has been extended by two months to allow the Borrower more
time to meet the conditions of effectiveness of its Agreement with the OPEC
Special Fund.
Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project; US$10.7
Million Credit
The Project is the consolidation phase of the Shire Valley Agri-
cultural Development Program and includes extension services, seed multi-
plication and afforestation programs, production credit, livestock and
fisheries development, health and potable water supply facilities and some
rural roads.  It would provide social and infrastructural services to about
70,000 families. The IDA Credit was approved on June 6, 1978; the credit
documents are yet to be signed.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
D. Existing IFC Investments 1/
David Whitehead and Sons (Malawi) Limited, 326 MAI, Textiles
The IFC investment helped the Company finance a major expansion
of its fully integrated textile mill at Blantyre.  The project commenced
operations in January 1978, some three months ahead of schedule and within
original budget. The Company's financial results are satisfactory and in
line with IFC's (IFC/R77-15) earlier predictions.
Dwangwa Sugar Corporation Limited, 362 MAI, Sugar Processing
The IFC investment is to help finance the development of a 13,188-
acre sugar estate and a factory to produce 67,000 metric tons per year of
sugar for both domestic and export markets. The project is now under con-
struction and at this stage commercial operations are expected to commence on
schedule in June 1979. The first IFC loan disbursement is expected to be made
by June 1978. (IFC/R77-14).
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Board of Directors of the
status of the existing projects and to report upon problems
which are being encountered and of action being taken to remedy
such problems. These notes are not comprehensive nor are they
intended to present a balanced evaluation of each investment.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
MALAWI
INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MALAWI
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
1.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                    5 months
(b)  Preparation by:                           INDEBANK, IBRD
(c)  Initial discussion with IBRD:             April 1977
(d)  First Bank mission:                       May 1977
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:              November 1977
(f)  Negotiations:                             April 1978
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:            November 1978
2.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
3.   Special Conditions of the Project
(a) If any of INDEBANK's shareholders should decide to request
prepayment of income notes from INDEBANK, the Bank would
be advised in advance and would also be entitled to demand
prepayment of its loan (para. 37).
(b) Recruitment by INDEBANK of (i) a Controller of Project
Investigations and (ii) a Projects Investigation Manager
to assist in the technical analysis of projects and selec-
tion of five additional Malawian professionals to be trained
by INDEBANK are conditions of effectiveness (para. 41).
(c) INDEBANK would make formal evaluation of sub-projects in-
cluding the calculation of economic rates of return (para.
42).



