FrIII11       U Mtjry' 
RESTRICTED                  J
Renort No   TO-46Ah
r-                                                                              I
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations. I
They do not accepi responsibility tor its accutracy or completeness. The report may
not be published ror may it be quoted as representing their views.
t   I r % I ~r, ,-,--~T-n-,--., r c v r rt~T,-  T I -kTrn nTr% Yr? .T  r
N I EKIRNATIONT'AL i3AiNN K        'KFO R i"  I R -;TRU.C I OIN AIND   vnL.L iPIAM ±N I
iNU E KLN A I AION AL L.) ] V I:LOPMT1V1   AS  CIATION
APPRAISAL OF A HIC;HWAY PROJECT
WEST PAKISTAN
May 18, 1964
DeFrartment of Technical Operations



C,URRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Pakistan Rupee = U. S. $0. 21
1 U.S. Dollar    = PRs. 4. 76
PRs. 1 million    = U.S. $210, 000



JEST 3?KISTAN
HIGHTIAY 4ROJ2CT
Table of Contents
Page
SUMP,!ARYi
I.   INTRODUC'OICON
II.   BACKGROUND                                                    2
A.  General                                                   2
B.  The Transnnrt Svstem                                      2
C.  The Road System                                          3
nh.  The Rroad Organization3
E.  Maintenance                                              4
F. Construction
G.  The Five-Year ?lans
III.   THE PROJ2&CT                                                  8
A. Description                                                8
'B  Cnst Estimntes                                           1
C.  Administration and Cxecution                            2)
IV.   ECCi' INC JUSTI?ICATION                                      14
A.  The Karachi-Hyderabad Highway                           14
B. The Jhelum- Ravi and Stitlei Bridges                     19
C.  ManagemBnt Consultants                                  21
V.  CONCLTJSIONS lMD TfECOMMENDATIONS                             22
Tables
1.   'Iotor Vehicle Statistics
2.   Highwary i.xpenditnre    n     Firqt. Plan Penriod1
3.   Design Standards
4.- TList of !10Tr:ks and Gost. Etim..ateTt
5.   0iWotor Vehicle Operating Costs
IfIap: TTest Pakistan - Highway System



I.rt'M'm   TtAr-rOrA7TJ
1.T5; 128  T   A 7TC4O1 ITU
A rTJnlh  T,  AT  r,T A TT,T,11r.r,   T Thr.T,flM
WU:XZ  A r.;Li r x a
QPPPhISL O   A riTr
ouI UiLLL&[\
i.        The Goverrunent of Pakistan has asked the Association to finance part
of the cos-t of a high-way project in IJeSt Pakistan  Tne project consists of
(i) the construction of a new highwTay between Karachi and Hyderabad, (ii) the
const Lruc      'u±r-i -hrlee major bridges across the Jnelum, Ravi and butlej FRivers,
(iii) the employment of management consultants to advise and assist the Building
anu Rioaus iBrancn `B & R) of the Provincial Government, and (iv) the employment
of consulting engineers to carry out feasibility studies of access to Karachi
and Hyderabad.
ii.       The totalL cost of the project, ircluding us,5.0 million equivalent
for right-of-way and ta:es, is estimated at USN'35.5 million equivalent of which
USi17.0 million equivalent is the foreign exchange cost.   The cost estimate is
considered sound and includes a reasonable allow-iance for contingencies. The
Government of iJest Pakistan Will finance the project's local expenditures from
its own budget.
iii.      Design and supervision of the Karachi-Hyderabad Highway will be
carried out by consultants who will be selected by the Government subject to
the approva-l of the Association. Design of the bridges will be carried out by
the B & R which has indicated that the final plans will be reviewed by consul-
tants. These consultants will supervise construction of each bridge on a full-
time basis,  Iianagement consultants will be selected by the Government subject
to the approval of the Association.
iv.       Road and bridge constructionl will be carried out by contractors
selected on the basis of international competitive bidding.
v,       'The project is economically justified.  The present route between
Karachi and Hyderabad is a 124-mile long narrow highway which is in a poor
condition and passes through a water-Logged area.  The new highway will avoid
this area and shorten the distance between the two cities by 30 miles. The
benefits accruing from the reduction in distance and the provision of a higher
standard highway are sufficient to produce returns of 8% and 115' discounted
over the life of the investment for two different assumed traffic volume!s ex-
pected to use the road. Significant indirect but unmeasured benefits are also
expected.
vi.       The existing Jhelum and Rav:i Bridges are old structures that are
congested and no longer suitable for heavry volume of fast moving traffic.  The
Sutlej Bridge would replace a boat bridge which is designed for a maximum of
4-ton vehicles and has to be removed during the annual three-month flood period.
The Jhelum and the Ravi Bridges are on1 the projected i'lest Pakistan National
Highway from Karachi through Hyderabad, Lahore and Rawalpindi.   As the locaticn
of the National Highway south of Lahore is now under study, it is not kntown
where it would cross over the Sutlej Ziiver.  In any case, a bridge is needed
at the presently proposed site.  The -value of vehicle time saved by the avoid-
ance of deLays appears sufficient to iustify the investment.



- i:i -
vii.       Th org anizi nionl s tructiue+iv  ond opera tonal pi-vrac ti. ce o r-f' +theo hi i 1 rld
ings and Roads Branch are both out-of-date and unsuited to modern highway con-
strutaonand main1;enance.  A "fund4innamllt'rognzto       and reor4entati.on oP~
planning, construction and maintenance practices are needed to enable the B & R
to meet its respon;ib-il       for the :onstruction and maint'nenance of - rowing
road systexn on which traffic is steadily increasing.    For this reason, the
o±iSJyLI, L  U  ±-U UI;~ a       U    -  --- -- --
emp-L mrent- ofL management consultants -Sncsay
viii.      Fneasibili.ty studies for access to Karachi and its port and to
Hyderabad are necessary because the s;,ree!ts of these two cities are beccming
more congested,
ix.        The project provides a suituable: basis for a development credit by
the Association of USp117.0 million equivalent.



I. INTROIUCTTION
1.       'The Government of Pakistan has requested a credit from the Interna-
tional Development Association (IDA) to meet part of the cost of a highway
project in Wlest Pakistan. The project consists of the construction of a new
highway between Kaarachi and Hyderabad and three major bridges, and the employ-
ment of management consultants to adv.ise the Buildings and Roads Branch (B & R)
of the Provrincial Government for a period of three years, and consulting
engineers to carry out feasibility studies of access to Karachi and Hyderabad.
2.        R'oads andl road transport in WiTest Pakistan were studied by the Bank
in the course of the Economic Missions to Pakistan in 1961 and 1962.   In
1961-62 a comprehensive transportation survey of West Pakistan wias made by
Transportation Consultants, Inc. (TCI) for the USAID. The USAID mission in
Pakistan for some time had been considering a new highway connection between
Karachiand Hyderabad.. It had carried out a reconnaisance of the proposed
alignment, made traffic surveys and arrived at a very preliminary cost esti-
mate. During the visit of the Ban!c/IDA mission in 1962, the USAID indicated
that it was concentrating its investment priorities in East Pakistan, and
therefore was no longer interested in financing this highway.
3.        On examination the IDA mission concluded that a new highway was
ooviously needed bu.t found that additional information, particularly on costs,
was required. It suggested to the Government that it engage consultants to
cari-y out a. comp-lete fesblt    stdy 4al      in193    A---,an &l LT:,4it4-
Ud..L  ~uLLL  .~.Ii  L 1  Lea -L.L±U±±LUY  OLUU,) *  J±..L1_L.y  _LIA _L7U  I-IJWIUIIL111  (ŽC   ,J11.L UL1t
International Limited were engaged for this purpose. A draft report was sub-
M, L itueu Uy Lt.h IonsUtIOUIants iLn ±1 UVti,11UCj L.7V_) lV1-11 1 IJft 11L)L,teD i on visitedL ueU .s
Pakistan to appraise the present project. The consultantst final report was
received i  February 1Q64 which complJeted their assign.ment.
}~~-i apraisal oreport is b-edN -;- et1ne.Sr41 conosul +rotaPnts  1oasib; ty Stoysg
the TCI report, and on information obtained from the B & R and other Govern-
ment sources by Bank and TIA missions.



- 2 -
II.   BACKGROUND
A. General
5.        The Province of West Pakistan covers a land area one and a haLf times
that nf France.   It is mainlv a vast flat plain stretching fromT the foothills
of the Himalayas in the northeast to the Arabian Sea.    Annual rainfall varies
from 5 inches in the souithto 30 ninnlhes in the north.   The mn   n
area which lies in the center and north-of the Province is crossed by five
great rives    +    Tth 4ie I Td hiien ('. pnabI, Rwr4 niA  %rMle4,j1n^.lc, anf+te  -the
.  ~~J S.LV~  ffl  A  t. C3  1S¼..L- - -L,  Ut-  '*AL-V  ,       - - UIt, 
confluence, flow as the Indus southwards to the sea.     The floods of varying
4,_-steniy - i.ch oecur annuaall.yr a. -1 +on  Ithese rivers -esul 4 in,0  -Vro  a,,, ,,--- .4 
of transport conuunications.
6.        The Province has a population of about 50 million people, 75 rter
ce  A 4.   *A* o-   WI,.  'I/A 'In                                    4'I-51,*55w1
i.VILL, 4 A. J L.i  I  -L.LV V  4.11LJ 4U40.J.  0.4  mo.0  I.JIUILV  L4SJ/ jJV4  --VJL  V4.  ULIK-  -.i0 A LLAL  LLIL 00.11
dwellers live in t'he four principal cities of Karachi, Hyderabad, Lahore and
[0wapl-'L iU. _p        a,    is- b4e.live  to beL  U   increas.1Ling at a4 rae ofU  a  east
2.6 or cent. per annum with the urban areas increasing at a much faster rate
uecauase of Ml4gration 'froUL vl,le countr,'yside anzsetVdIer thte s'leetL, of refUgees.
VVlliLe Vve u rK`s'anJs econor,y- JS     pr±iu -l y agr-iullur-a, tlxe
industrial sector's contribution to Frovincial "national" income is estimated
I.  I  -  - -1     -  ---   -cent   lr              nfl -- - -  - .   -  n  -   -I fin  /Lrx
to ih-ve increased from ( per cent, o 15 per cent ueUweent!11 1Il9U ar  41)5/0U.
The Government anticipates an acceleration of this trend over the next ten
years.    Cotton textile, cement, sugar, chemical fertilizer and leather goods
industries located in or around Karachi, Hyderabad, Multan, Lyallpur and Lahore
comprise the main industrial activities at present.    Medium and light minufactuw
ing industries producing machine tools, spare parts, sewing machines, soorts
goods and the processing of local agricultural products are widely scattered
throughout the Province.
B. Tran.§ort System
8.        Both Government-owned and privately owned transport facilities serve
the Province. 'T'he Government-owned and operated enterprises include the
Pakistan Western Railways, Pakistan I'nternational Airlines, Karachi Port Trust-,
a number of urban bus companies as well as the West Pakistan Road Transport
Board which operates inter-city bus services. In the private sector, bus,
truck, pipeline, river and ocean going transport services are provided. There
is, in addition, a large amount of local and rural traffic which moves slowlly
by animal drawn vehicles.
9.        With the exception of the railway, the airline and the urban bus
services there is little effective regulation of transport. The Government
has recently reconstituted its Transport Coordination Board. This body is
expected to recommend priorities of investment allocations within each trans-
port sub-sector to advise the Government on rates and fares and to collect
and correlate data on transport activity and trends. Insufficient time has
elapsed to determine the manner in which it will carry out its tasks,



-3-
C. The Road System
10.       At, the end of 1962. Uest 'aki.stan hacl a road network totaling- scme
21,0C0 miles of all t;pes about half of which is paved. iAlthough these are
passable in all weather, thev are generally of low standard and functionally
obsolete for modern traffic. The remainder of the systeml consists of gravel
and earth rcads w]hich  ften becAme imDassable during the monisoon season
'The higher type of roads generally come under the jurisidiction of the Pro-
vincial Governr.ent with the lower type beinz generallv buiilt, nnr, mnintinli
by municipal and village authorities.
11.       A substantial mileage of existing paved roads is subject to floDding
and to damage from water logging and is under frenuent repair.  Mostt of t.he
paved roads are either of single-lane cr a substandard two-lane width which
results in heavv damage to the navement. edges and shoulders from meeting and
passing vehicles. Since the shoulder material becomes pulverized to a fine
dust and araduallv erodes. meeting or rassinp on narrow pavements can hb ex-
tremely hazardous because of lack of visibility and the drop from the pavement
to the shoulders.
12.       In 1962 there were some 115.CC0 motor vehicles registered in lIost
Pakistan.  Of these, about 28 per cen-t were trucks and buises which make up -the
bulk of road traffic outside the urban areas.  As shown in Table 1 there has
been i raoid increase since 1958 in most vehicle cate-ories.   The volume of
truck traffic has increased significantlv since the removnl of inter-regional
restrictions in 1961. Truck and bus traffic would have been higher had it
not been restricted bv the inadenuate road network; the substancoard condition
of many of the roads and the difficulties of procuring foreign exchange for
the purchase of new vehic'les and spare narts.  In 1961-62. for example, a
government enquiry estimated that some 25 per cent on the trucks and 30 per cent
of the buses were "off-the-road" because of lack of snare Darts.
13.       Regtulations already exist to co.ltrol the operation and leading of
vehicles, but there is little or no enforcement outside the ci-ties and tolwns.
The density ofl mixed vehicle and ani.mal traffic on some roads has reached a
point where action is badly needed to improve safety and permit the unhindered
flow of motor traffic.  The widespread practice of stopping and parking oni the
pavement requires special attention.
D. The Road Organization
14.       The Buildings and Roads Branch (BA'R) of the Communications and forks
DeDartment is responsible for the construction and maintenance of all but
municipal and village roads. The headquarters of the B ^: R is located at
Lahore. Tts organizational structure is an oudated and cumbersome historical
carry-over from the jpre-Independence era whe.n communications were poor.
15        Excent for the design and supervision of bridges, which is centralized,
the technical responsibility for the planning, execution, and maintenance of
road works is delegated to five regional engineers who in turn may assign work
to various subordinate offices, several of which may be in the same city.   A
separate maintenance organization does not exist and both maintenance and con-
struction are carried out by the same forces.



16.       Perhnsc th.e worst defect in the organization of the B & R is the
lack of a chief engineer to direct, plan and coordinate all aspects of r-oad
works.  The need for such an official has become increasingly necessary as
West Pakistan moves ahead with its plans for rebuilding its existing obsolete
provincial" road network. Consideaion is bei ng givtrnn to the es     czhlishc.j.ent
of a central planning office within the B & R; however, it seems apparent that
-entrli;--ing only one of its .,ny -unctions w   not r.ee  1,th  need £or rer-
all direction and control of all phases of highway work.
17.       The Government is actively considering both the separation of the
10uilJJngs and r.l.Vd1s fL1unctJions,, and thei re oranzai Ora _   Lhe an-str.ation
of road works. Steps in this direction are already being taken by appointing
t-t-; _ L A _ _ L 6, _ AW1 ..4   . _  rL  , _   - - _ _   - T 1 ,,L_-4A .__A .
J-UlrU oV1 I Viers1  to o[e o-lr t1he otULiV± d.LU Vi VLU.y* .  L1- ILdLLI  I.ULJ D  UVl0n Ut .L rsolV ued
is how far the separation should be c.arried. While it is clear that in urban
areas tULhe amLount anLu complJ 4Lt.y o.[' rcAdii cntulon work warrants thLes
tion of the two functions, it may not be practical in more isolated areas where
tLh.e annuaaIL  expendit-u_-es are sr.a.ll and[IC. teChniCal sk±.Ls scarce.  Onie reforr.I1 tLhitu
is badly needed is to avoid the loss of technical skills caused by the frequenc3
U1  SL'Eul  L'sb llilED   UIAbiU   U   L;UIP.tUDUV,L   U.L.LItI't:,1I   IUIU.lU EblUl
18.       In the light Of plans to proceed with the construction and recon-
struction of a large mileage of primary roads, the modernization of con-
struction and maintenance operations is essential. This calls for a thorougn
study to determine the organizational and operating changes needed and a re-
assessment of budgetary requirements.
E. Maintenance
19.       The primary road system, most of which is paved, receives regular
rnaintenance, but since parts of it have been so poorly built, excessive main-
tenance is required, particularly in areas subject to water logging and.annual
flooding. Secondary and village roacds which are usually earth surfaced. are
difPicult to maintain and become unusable in the wet season.
20.       Most maintenance is carriecd out by hand labor which is permanently
assigned t.o each section of road. MaLintenance equipment is limited to anti-
cuated rollers, asphalt kettles and a few overaged trucks. Because of the
shortage of equipment, maintenance work is often of an inferior quality and
the same repairs have to be carried out over and over again.  Vehicle over-
loadin^: and rapidly growing traffic densities, especially on roads with single-
lane pavement, exacerbate base and pavenent failures and add to the difficulty
of mainterance.
21.       The central repair shop at Lahore is well equipped u.ith power tools
and trained machinists available to operate them but district shop facilities
are almost, nonexistent.  The small spare parts inventory at the central shop
is inadequate.
22.       Separate provision is made in the provincial Government budgets for
maintenance funds. Annual maintenance costs range from Rs 500 (US$105) to
over Rs C.,000 (US$420) per mile per year in West Pakistan, although where
flood damage occurred the costs may be much higher. As shown in Table 2. while
construction expenditures varied widely during the First Plan Period, mrLain-



- 5 -
tenance expenditures were fairly consistent. This is one indication of the in-
creasing and commendable awareness at high levels in Government that it is
pointless to build roads if they are not to be properly maintained.
23.       In the light of plans to modernize and expand the highw,?ay system,
there is an obvious need for a study to determine i) how maintenance operations
should be organized, ii) the degree of mechanization required, iii) the best
maintenance practices for conditions prevailing in West Pakistan, and iv) the
amount of funds needed annually for maintenance.
F. Contruction                           T
2h.       With few exceptions, roads ln U: est  akistan are built almost en'irely
with hand labor, equipment being limited to a few essential units such as rollers,
concrete [m -    ierls an ctrucks .  £lar-g-e wunk,, mainly bridges, have beenr uui U
with limited use of eauipment.   Apart from masons, brick makers and la,yerS,
wor'MAl 1e            n larely  A   ,e -llelb  or   _   _;A._. work..g ± Ou _ d   '_ .__,e
circumstances its productivity is inevitably low.
25.       On the construction of higher types of roads by labor intensive
methods,Jt has been noted that -`a'ty sufeseven ,I.LUIth good super=visioriU.
~~  ~   .LU  U C1   LI~1  Z  UK-U  LUi±LU  LjtAJ±L.Lt OyU.L ±±-LVi  J  JI ~ ~   ~ U1
Fills and embanklments go unconsolidated because of lack of the compacting action
of     p     an        n settle susantially ith resulting Savement fail11.,es
Pavements constructed by hand labor tend to be rough and urneven and often fail
under the impact of fast=m.oving and heavny vehicles.  Thus it is evident that
compaction and paving operations on high-standard roads must be carried olut bDy
.echanical means,
26.       A further w?eaknmess of hand labor is the comm.on practice of usingg
inferior mP.aterials found immediately alongside the roads because of the shiortage
of trucks to hail in better materials which may be available some distance away=
Even where trucks are available, it may be uneconomic since mechanical loading
equinment is frequen-tly not available. As a result. capital invested in t,rucks
is inefficienatly emp-Loyed because of' the large amount of time needed for hand
loading and unloadins,
27.       La'bor and 'Local materials are generally provided by contractors w^ith
the Government supplying some imported materials and equinment on a renta] basis.
The contractors are gJenerally small entrepreneurs although there are a fe! larger
firms with foreign connections.
23.       Field supervision of work in progress is satisfactory on a few projects,
but is generially inadequate or non-existant on most work.   Field laboratories are
not available and little use is made of the central laboratory at Lahore.    The
standard    techniques of scheduling work, progress reporting and follow-up are
generally not in use,,
29.       The Province as a whole has suitable highway construction materiLals
though these are not always conveniently located.    The availability of watzer for
comipaction can be a problem fcr road construction in semi-desert areas, blut
can be overcome by wells and temporary pipelines.



- 6 -
30.       The cost of' construction of a primary road in flat terrain has averaged
about Rs. lO0C000 (US;' 21,000) per mile for a single-lane asphlalt surfaced road
on a low embankment.  An undesirable tendency has developed to use Rs. l00,000
per mile as at rule of' thumb average and to exnect roads to be built for about
that price wi.thout any consideration being given to the variable nature of the
materials available and drainage.  As allocations are often based on this rule of
thumb f'igure, engineers are either obliged to perform inferior work in order to
complete the mileage, i_owing that the work will not stand up, or to stop the
work until such time as more funds are appropriated.
31.       14any recently built roads are not. standing up to present day traffic.
This is the i.nevitable consequence of inadequate design, antiquated snecifications
and the impossibility of building modern roads suitable for high speed, heavily
loaded vehicles with little or no equipment.
G. The Five-Year Plans
32.       The Governmentis First Five-Year I'lan (1955-60) provided for the
construction of 1,800 miles of new roads and the imorovement of 2,000 miles of
existing roads in UIest Pakistan at a cost of Rs 195 million. (US. 41 million).
According to the Planning Commission, the work carried out was somewhat less
than that scheduled and the actual cost was Rs 200 million.  Rs 1.5 million
(!JS:;K 310,000) was included in the original allocation for expanding road research
with a view to evolving new specifications for road construction through use of
locally available material, but this basic work was never done.
33.       The Second Five-Year Plan (1960-65) provided for a road program as
shown below, together with the construction cf four major bridges, at a total
cost of Rs 250 million (T'Ts;52.5 million).
ri4les
Neew roads (in progress)                   350
Improved roads (in progress)               250
New roads                                1,200
Roads to be improved                     1,200
3,500
34.       Because of political pressures, the bulk of the plan program consisted
of the rebuilding of numerous widely scattered short sections rather than con-
centrating a smaller number of through roads.  The work was handicapped by a
shortace of f'unds, lack of equipment and the skills to build high-standard road
works.  While many lccal improvements have been accomplished under the Plan, there
has been no sir,nificant upgrading of the miain road system.  Aly results of this
nature must await the application of modern techniques of road building directed
to the execution of a. specific project.
35.       Both IBhD and IDA missions to eakistan have found that the program
lacked effectiveness and was difficult t;o execute. Althcugh up-to-date records
on schedules and progress were generally not available, it was concluded by these
missions on the besis of field surveys that the program was falling behind schedule
In 1962 the " e R raised its estimate to complete the Plan target from Rs 250
million to RE; L00 million (USe 84 million).



- 7 -
36.       IBRD and IDA missions have also found that (i) objective economic
criteria were not being applied in selecting projects, (ii) design standards
were inadequate for roads on which traffic was rapidly increasing, (iii) roads
were designed by rule-of-thumb methods, (iv) existing road specifications were
antiquated, and (v) insufficient use was being made of existing laboratory
±acilllies,
37e       An IDA mission to ,Test P'akistan in ilovember 1963 noted a growing aware
ness on the part of the highway administration of the technical and administrat-
ive problems involved in inproving and maintaining the road system. During 1963
the B & R engaged a number of consultants to carry out road feasibility studies,
The project described below includes what the Association and the Government
believes to be the hi-hest priority road of those under study as well as a
number o-f other high priority itemrs.



TTT   TUT O7?(Y Tr'p
* . L*  £G4  V  V  .sJ'
A 
A.  DescriLptUioI
-)U.      Ilje proje con U ist    L \of  U(i' th  LLInCl± en1 ei.,g anLd coUnst UI U O 
a new 89-mile highway between Karachi and Hyderabad, (ii) the review of designs,
| u : 1 z. . : _ r s~~~~~-   4-1,   Tl  -  .  ,  V4   --  (5 |A -4  U1   A
uhe supervJ.OJULI~LIU  ~  W.L~ U±ur   J o   U1o UA~WI "a~V I.CII JtA1 -- JJI _Ur 
vie  Up_  J;  r  iU WJ  vAuc  X I   U lit   U1t:_1 U1Vil  I "l  tLV  ll  U  'J  s
(iii) the employment of management consultants for a three-year period to advise
andu asst S4S   he B P. RD on matters- of'   --;hw  ognization and o,eratiJons and
a,  .  k,  ULi1 .) L3   It±  ULI  111CXUkJ1L.  UI.~ti~   jU ~aI
(iv) consulting engineers to carry out feasibility studies of access to iKarachi
ar.d Hyderab"ad.
T'arachi-Hyderabad U_Tighwa
39.       I'hie dKarachii-HI±-Iy UU Orabu ALLi IVC. y w-- b  t  fi  sco fh pro-
posed W.Test Pakistan National H-ighway f'rom Ksarachi to Lahore and eventually to
Peshal-ar . The Government has recently engaged three consulting fa     tocar Jr
out feasibility studies of three further sections: Hyderabad-l'ashmore, Kashmor-
4o.       The proposed route for the Karachi-Hyderabad Highway was selected by
the U.AID mission in 1960 with a view to reducing the distance of the present
circuitous route andJ locating it in more favorable topography. The availability
of an adequate supp:ly of natural road bui:lding materials was a further con-
sideration. Ammann and Whitney International who were appointed by the (.overn-
ment to complete the feasibility study selected approximately the same aLign-
ment. It starts at a point on a main thoroughfare about 5 miles northeast
of downtown Karachi and extends direct'ly across the Sind Desert to the WEfst
abutment of the Ghulam 1lohammad Barraga onl the Indus River.  The barrage is
located about 4 miles northwest of Hyderabad.
hvi.      The proposed alignment traverses a   area where the terrain is   eneral-
ly flat or rolling except for several miles of hilly terrain through the
Jungsh      Hi.llsO whereI hea-ry rokVU   wVork-±' WU e rue  ThereUare l9 1 UL(:dL  i r ±1I Ues
in the project and two overpasses. The bridges present no difficult engineer-
ing problem as strearn beds are wCell refined, bor.ng  4ndi4cate stab-le soil'.s or
~~3±A  3~  ~ ~   VL ~CUU  I~~~3~Q  ~~± ~  ~V~JL  UL  L3L_LIU  ~ I AA±   L. U.LU~ U~  UC UJ..L  I'J.1  UJ
bedrock and the spans wJould be relatively short.
42.       There are no adverse geological features to overcome which require
special or costly c.nstruction.   Natural road building materials, including
river gravels, good quality limestone and hard sandstone deposits, are availa-
ble a2ong the proposed alignment.
43,.      The highway   will  be designed as a limited access facility to the
star.dards s hc -un L in T abl 30 LcI.  These- stndrd  P---id  4for the ir,medat con-
U   UU  UItUl'VLI ~~~I1  lCtIJ~-).  ILLUOU  0 UCLLLUCLI UC.?   V.U: Iv Vu j Ul itZ; ±IIiIrIeuicUCLU   CUL
struction of a two-lane roadway and a right-of-way of sufficient width for the
con.struction of an additional two lanes separated by a -median stri. at some
future time. The geometric standards wrere selected on the basis of present and
projected traffic densities and the physical factors of the terrain to be
traversed.  The pavement consists of a six-inch crushed stone base writh a 2-,--
inch +t.wo-course asphalt c-oncrete surface,  The proposed desigrn standards are
adequate.
44.       Ammann and '4hitneyts report included snecific recommendations con-
cerning the maintenance of the highw^1ay.  Some of these recommiendations involve
matters beyond the direct maintenance of the highway itself. These will be
studied in more deta:il by the management consultants (see below).   Wihile it re-
mains to be determined how maintenance should best be organized and execu-ted,
satisfactory assurances have been obtained tihat the Karachi-Hyderabad Hig,hway
will be properly maintained.



45.       The terms of reference for the feasibility study of the Karachi-
Hyderabad Highway did not include access to the centers of the cities or to
the Port of Karachi.  However, Arann and Whitney did carry out a reconnais-
sance of possible routes. Their findings indicate that considerably more
study is required as the selection of the most favorable approaches invol-ves not
only technical considerations but a1soquestions of acquisition of right-of-way,
access to the port area of Karachi and connections vrith existing and proposed
roads. Some of these considerations involve issues on which the Governmeat
must first decide, following which it should ask Ammann and Whitney or other
consultants to carry out feasibility studies of alternate approaches.
46.       The Government of West Pakistan will limit access to the highway and
make it a toll facility. Limited access is highly desirable to minimize ribbon
development and prov:ide a means of preventing slow-moving traffic such as camels,
bulloclc carts and tongas from using the highway, thus eliminating one of the
worst traffic features in Pakistan. Ammann and Whitney recommended that slow-
moving traffic be confined to the part of the right-of-way reserved for the
future two lanes. They have also recommen(ded that special provision be mLde
for the enforcement of motor vehicle regulations. The Government has agreed to
implement both recommendations.
47.       The Governrment proposes to collect tolls on the highway.   There would
be no objection to this as there will be an alternate non-toll route available.
In fact, the collection of tolls is desirable as it would enable the Government
to recover some of it;s investment in the highway and to more easily secure con-
trol and records of traffic.   The B & R has agreed to make periodic trafficccunts.
48.       The Government has indicated that tolls on the highway and the bridges
wi 1l be collected by the c-ustomary practice of farming out the ight to private
contractors in return for a fixed annua:L fee.  The Government favors this
practice because of problems of collect:Lng tolls with its own personnel.
Jholll. pkan Pnu nndi Sutlej Bide
19.       The Jhel.lm, Rai and Sutlej Bri- des, which are named AFter the rivrers
they cross, are located on the outskirts of the cities of Jhelum, Lahore and
Bahawalpur respectively (see, m,n)- The P Thal1im and Pn Bri  ia  will be on the
projected West Pakistan National Highway extending from Karachi to Peshawar.
The location of the National Highwfay between HyderTad an.d   hore is no- under
study; whether it would cross the butlej at the proposed bridge site or not
Bahawalpur road to provide year-around service. The first two would supplement
exitL S U_Ir st La ctLUr es ofI i.nadequa.t e capacty , While IJ-th eL.ELU thirdUw U replLacLUe a
pontoon bridge. Considerable study is being devoted to the location of the
t__: I ~~4.                                _1_:_ _   __ z  |_ _ _   ':-   _-   J _- _   L_   I S1_ _L &_
U±-ttugR ± 11 U.LUeL LU UV  UL4±r sat _Z:i ' djJ-UcdSiL1.U U dLa uEtj 6wII' ,LIIi, SIllu ie
the technical requirements of the river crossings.
50.       The bridges will be designed for the standard heavy loading shown in
Table 3. The decks would provide for tiwo lanes of traffic on the Jhelumn and
Sutlej Bridges and for four lanes on the Ravi Bridge. As river bed and topo-
graphic conditions are about the same at all three sites, the bridges will be



- 'LO 
similar in design., They range from l:,500 to 3,300 feet in length and consist
of si.mply-s upported -pns _of azout l' O 4f-. eet ec  The suprstructure of each
bridge will be made of reinforced concrete with prestressed girders and. sup-
ported on- cailssons sunsk deep. -;t 4- 4 river bed so as to --oid scour.
C'ons _' U UO' OtZ:FV-ices: andU jLJaboratoryE ct .;l L. J.ties
~AJL~LLL L~tiL  LVci-I idUdUj a dfi[lagel(LeEit, VRULEV    J.II UUMLt tl
51.      inTs 'tem provides Tor (a) a ) anagerieul cons-ultir f.I uo ad-vise and
assist the B & R for about three years on matters pertaining to its organiza-
tion and operation and  (b) a consulting engineering Iirm To carry out feasi-
bility studies of access to Karachi and Hyderabad as discussed in paragraph Lt5.
The services to be rendered by management consultants include:
i) A study of the organization and administration of the B & R
with particular reference to the desirability of separating
the building and roads functions and assistance in implementing
the recommendations of that study.
ii) A report on highway maintenance operations with reconmendations
on necessary changes and Improvements.
iii) A report on the condition of the central laboratory at Lahore
with recommendations as to the proposed expansion and the need
for field laboratories.
52.      lJnder the first item the consultants will be expected to (i) ap-
praise the adequacy of the B & R organization and to recommend the necessary
specific changes with the purpose of modernizing, streamlining and simplifying
the present organizational structure to enable it to carry out its expanding
responsibi:Lities with increased efficiency and better control over its opera-
tions , (ii) assist in the establishment and operation of a planning sect-ion and
a modern design office and (iii) assist in the selection of contractors and
to introduce modern field inspection techniques on road construction. The
consultants will be required to submi-k a comprehensive report on their
findings arid, following the approval of the report, to assist both the B & R
and the Bank in the implementation of its recommendations.
53.       The secord item calls for a thorough study of existing maintenance
operations with a view to determining the capability of the existing organi-
zation and the changes needed in the -light of plans to expand the provincial
road system. Particular emphasis will be placed on determining how muchJ main-
tenance operations should be mechanized on both new and existing roads with
due consideration to economy and efficienevy, good workmanship and availability
and skill of local labor.
54.       The third item concerns the appraisal of existing laboratory facili-
ties at Lahore which the B & R proposes to expand. The consultants will he
expected to examine and comment on the proposed expansion and to assist in its
implementation. They will also study the desirability of usina fielr Iab-
oratories and if found needed assist in establishing them. It may also be
necessary to provide for the training of local staff to operate thpe eisting
and any new facilities proposed. If this should be required, it would be
corered by the continngency item.



- 11 -
55.       The irpemetatio                                 I-o 0P "any r,ecommendations made by the cons-l-tants
involving large-scale expendi-ture, particularly  on maintenance, would have to
be- left to a late:r. stage, as it- 4s no  osil  o   t 4iXpt           odro
V    L U .L~.U  U%U aL -LLU.  OUL ,  dO  .LU  LO  LIU U  JJU00L±)_U±   HIUI'  UU  dLIUL'  LjJdCUU  LIIU  uU1 ef-1  Ui
magnitude of the eaxpenditure these recommendations might involve,
B. Cost .13stimates
56.       The total cost of the project is US$33.5 million equivalent as shown
below:  (A detailed estimate is given in T-able 4.)
US9p Million Equivalent
Local     Foreign     Total
Road construction                   9.7        10.5       20.2
Bridge construction                 5.1        2.6         7.7
Consultants' services and
laboratory facilities             0.9        1,2         2.1
Contingencies                       2,8        2.7        5.5
18.5       17,0       35.5
57.,      The estimate includes the cost of construction, consultantsf services
right-of-way and local duties and taxes. It also includes a quantity contingen-
cy allowance of 107% which is considered adequate in view of the thorough feasi-
bility study of the Karachi-Hyderabad Road, the completion of final plans for
the Jhelum Bridge and previous experience in bridge building in West Patsistan
and the availability of preliminary R>roposals from management consultants.  The
estimate also includes a price contingency of 8,'O which has been included *to
take into account possible price increases during the execution of the prroject.
The estimate for the Karachi-Hyderabad road is based on the Anmann and Whitney
study. The over-a:ll estimate is sound.
58.       The fore:ign exchange component is estimated at US817.0 million
equivalent or approximately 55i' of the total estimated cost of the project
less the cost of right-of-way and government duties and taxes. The estirmated
foreign exchange requirements are based on the need to import all equipnlent
and a large portion of supplies, the use of foreign contractors on the road
construction part and the employment of consultants from overseas. Local
costs are based on the use of local unskilled and semi-skilled labor, some
local serv:ices and supplies, local contraictors on the bridges and Pakistani
personnel on the cofnsultants' staff.
59.       Local currency needs will be provided from the budget of the lWest
Pakistan Government. Assurances have been obtained from the Central Govern-
ment that sufficient funds will be provided to carry out the project and that
these funds will be rnade available as required.
C. Administration and Execution
60.       T'he construction parts of the project will be carried out through
unit-price. cntact    warde-d on t,ebasi o)f internati-onal comnpetitive hiddingr.



- 12 -
Karch. L i.lZir.y   ei"A.n LJL.L   ql. -  VVAr
Karach =Kde-aad gHEway
61.    Co~nsulta -s1-h could b.e 4-h,e same xr4 which carried out th   eai
_LQCILUt1Oi,L  ILVIICJ  UCLLU  uU  L ~  .,  L. rm I VL.LLLUJ1  L.CL  ~   U U 1  UIIU  LIZcCL..L_
bility studies, will be engaged to prepare final plans, specifications and
contract d1ocumients. This par' of the work wo'uld requiJ're cabout one year to
LAJI ULd.L UU LIl1Uo I1   jdIU0  IL  iLS  JLU   Lf i.I c±UU  U11I:  YtcIeLL  UU
complete.  These consultants will also be used to assist in the analysis of
1!5rl_4 13   --   _                                       :_  ,  :__  __.  C  L _  J__ 
U±Luo  lZiI  U V1,  OLL44JZLV L, .) U   LI~ 1JUAL. ULI  iii  ctlii (__At:AIu1±VU  L'dq .iL";LUY.
Ue.       lilt: UUveIntmeniu l'avorsi 'Ula oracitce of 11aVIL±g .L01U_Lu,1 (Ur1bUIL,1L1blbS
associate with local consulting firms.  While the development of local en-
gineerLin fir,ns Ls dueiraubl, IL srhculu be a gradual process to avuiu wUo
much competition between local firms and the B & R for the limited number
of technical personnel availabie in Pakistan. This issue was discussed during
negotiations.
63.       Construction will be let in one or two large contracts depending
upon tne timing of completion of tender documents and further analysis by the
consultants to determine which would be the better procedure to follow.   immann
and 'Wnitney estimate that actual construction would require about two -years..
Allowing for mobilization of both consultants and contractors, and for ad-
vertising bids and the awarding of contracts, they estimate that design and
construction would take about four years to execute.
64.       The work is considered straightforward and no unusual engineering
difficulties are anticipated. The country through which the new highway is
located is a semi-desert with a total rainfall averaging from seven to eight
inches per year, most of it occurring during the summer from June to September.
i4ater is only available at certain coints along the alignrient and it will have
to be brought to the work front.
Jhelumx, Ravi and Sutlej Bridges
65.       Final plans, specifications and contract documents for the three
bridges are to be prepared by the Bridge Department of the B & R. Final plans
for the Jhelum Bridge have already been completed while preliminary planning
is under way for the Ravi and Sut;lej Bridges. It is estimated that the bridges
will be completed in about four to five years, allowing one year for completion
of plans and three to four years for construction.
66.       The B 'Cr R is well experienced in the design and construction of
bridges, but has only built one or two pre-stressed concrete structure;s similar
to those in the project.  The project bridges are longer both in span and in
total length than any pre-stressed bridges previously built in Pakistan. It
seems prudent therefore to have the designs reviewed by outside consultants
and to have the same consultants assist on the supervision of construction.
The B & R are agreeable to this suggestion and have already turned over the
detailed plans of the Jhelum Bridge to a firm of U.K. consultants.   The con-
tract wiith this firm provided for only part-time supervision.  In view of
the magnitude of the work and the close tolerances involved in pre-stressed
construction  the B 6- R has agreed to have the bridge consultants supervise
construction of each bridge on a full-time basis.



._1,I -
Consultantst Services and Laboratory Facilities
67.       Following discussions betweern the IDA and the B (I R on the termrs of
reference for management consultants, the WIest Pakistan Government invited a
number of firms to submit proposals.  Four proposals have been received to date
and are now being evaluated by the B & R.
68.       The reports on administration, maintenance and laboratory facilities
will be completed within one year, folloiTng which the consultants would con-
centrate for a two-year period on assisting the B & R in implementing the
recommendations.  The consultants' team will consist of seven or eight experts
in all phases of highway operations including administration, accounting, design,
materials, construction and maintenance. The selection of equipment for the road
research laboratory will be based on the recommendations of the consultants who
will be responsible also for insuring its proper installation and for the train-
ing of local personnel in its use.
69.       As noted in paragraph 45, the! feasibility studies of access into
Karachi and Hyderabad would be carried out by Ammann & .Thitnev or other con-
sultants,



- 114 -
IV. ECONOi4IC JUST:IFICATION
70,       Al adenut1e annd ef'fic-ient sysrtem of transnort iv s essentianl wrhere an
accelerated economic development program is planned, as it is in West Pakistan.
The Government has recognized this need an.d is giving high priority to the de-
veloprient of its tramsport facilities.  It is aware that the execution of large
agricultural arn4d industrial projects arid the growth of supporting- econom-ic acti-
vities will require the rapid and reliable movement of building materials, equip}
ments  achi, inery,ant;l consiuIer goods and fLoodstuffO s TLs4. I-  4- t po-'t pl  call
for, among other th:Lngs, the extension and rehabilitation of the main National
HigLhLwy  yStem l ,king all the riIajor populatior, a-idU corUu!iercial cent,ers.
A. Tlhe iarachL-Hyd'rabad Road
General
71.       The proposal to build a new modern road between Karachi and Hyderabad,
which would be the first section of a main highway from the sea to Peshawar in
the north, is an important first step to this objective.   By improving the con-
nection between the first and third largest cities in West Pakistan it Ti-li
permit the acceleration of agricultural and industrial developments.   Equally
important,   by serving as a model for the future expansion of the entire highl-
way program, it vUi1   establish for tl-.e first time in '.est Pakistan modern
standards of design ard construction.
72.       The existing highway between. Karachi and Hyderabad is a 124 mile bitu-
minous road of single lane width for most of its length. It is already functio-
nally inadequate to serve the present traffic efficiently or to meet future
needs. Pavement failures are frequent. There are delays and congestion for
extended time periods. A significant portion of the road lies in waterlogged
areas adjacent to canals and the River Indus.   This contributes to the road
failures and causes repairs to be short lived thus wasting maintenance funds.
73 .       After investigation by the C,overnment and its consultants, it has been
concluded that the existing road should not be part of the planned National
Highway.  It is nearly 4O per cent longer and the waterlogged areas are unsuit-
able locations for road construction. To build the new highway on the existing
alignment would lead to un.iustifiable higher construction and maintenance costs
and the sacrifice of the important savings and developmental benefits whlich re-
sult from t.he shorter distance made possible by the new alig.nment. The exist-
ing road will continue in service to meet local traffic needs; its reconstruc-
tion may eventually become necessary but this is not envisarred at nresent_
Economic Background
74.       West Pakistan's total population of 50 million people is increasing by
at lna  2.6 percent per annum.  The Planning Commission has projected that the
population may increase to 56 million in 1971 and to 76 million in 1981.   The
Kararhi and ,Hvderahad Administrative Districts are exnected to increase from
565 million people in 1961 to 12 million people in 1931; this is a faster rate
fl-inn the. national averagye.



- -1t -
'i< 91 o1Q-171
UrTbran                                1.9       3,.
Rural                                  0.2       0.3        o.
Total                        2.1       3.7        6.5
Hyderabad Division
Urban                                  0.8       1.4        2.3
Rural                                  2.5       2.9        3.3
Tota'L               ~~~~3.3   14.3
.Lot,ai.,0n                            w           .
75).      From the foregoing figures a rapid growth of urban poDulations can
be seen. Rural migration to towns is well under way for a number of reasons.
Since major towns such as Karachi and H-yderabad are relatively better supplied
with hospita:l and sanitary services, wh:ich tend to cause lower-than-averaEe
death rates, and have a younger population age structure than the Province as
a whole; cumulative and rapid increases in their populations are expected.
76.       To feed, clothe and sustain this increased population at even the pre-
ent  low levels of consumption will both need and provide a basis for greater
output and productivity in agriculture and industry. This should generate more
freight transport movements. It has been estimated, for example, that for W1est
Pakistan, under the conditions projected, a 51 per cent per annum growth in
farm output per agricultural worker woultd be required to achieve an increase in
total food output equal to the expected increase in urban population, assuming
no increase in existing per capita food consurwation. In view of the unfavorable
enviroment fcor agriculture around Karachi increased food imports either from
abroad or from within Uest Pakistan will be required to feed its grcwing pop-
ulation.  ?assenger movements can also be expected to increase, particularly
between the towns.  The Pakistan iTestern Railwray, for example, has found that
for every one journeyl made by rural dwellers some 12-13 are *iade by town dwellers
per year.
77.       The cities of Karachi and Hyderabad, with their combined populations
of nearly 3 million people, have important relative advantages in the competi-
tion for new industries and capital. They are better supplied with financial,
managerial and labor skills than most other cities in the zrovince. The.- are
important liarlcets.  They have established business, commercial and financial
communities.  They are becoming increasingly important as industrial cente:rse
At Karachi, for example, a cement factory, an oil refinery, a petrochemica:l
complex, a truck assembly plant, a rehabilation of the shipyard and other
projects are either now under construction or in the planning stage.



78.~~~~~~~~~~P -e1!.t conideabl  fian..l  ha and . institutional-obstacles
IU.          t Y.. U%V~U L~UI1 , U a ~U.Le t I JAcliC21-.L.d! , LiUIIIULI  OIIS 11   .LVA .LIL.1_L  V U UJ.UJII, U7J0
the economy of 'NSest Pakistan has mace considerable progress since Partition.
L,Jewe 15-60, n  fo P -:r,e lts >1MPT (t   cosa-.4rce)icrae
at a cowpound rate of 3.6 per cent per annum, according to one semi-offi3ial
-!_  L    M   ---    - L  . t 1   .  --I - I - -  r ~     ( mn ,   _   ---   _--  i_ l _ _ _   T.T.  ALI  Cr.4
est uiua e.  lhe report Of theU           i..UfUUi±1L 1iisslon nLul \lup J. AS-96)
points out that despite shortcomin.s in planning, project preparation, adminis-
tration, aiu utiIlzatio-, etc . econoruiic progress 1,Tas ! UI U.L1UlI.  3y th end of
the Second Five Year Plan (196o-65) G1!Pi will probably have increased by an ave-
rage of sorne )! per cent per annuwu.
79.       The past :;rowth OI thie ecionom.y has both generated anu needed inure
freight and passenger transportation. On the Pakistan 1festern Railways, for
example, freight ton-miles increasea at an average oI 5.1 per cent per annuru
and passenger-miles by 3.L per cent per annun over the period 1950-62.    Dry
car.go imports tnrough Karachi increased by some 3.2 per cent per anrnum ani e-
ports by 1.6 -.oer cent per annum curinq the same period.  Stat-stical evidence
of the abso.lute and relative groj7thl of Iover-the-road"i transport is less
satisfactoryr.  The important ;ID sponsored 'Transportation Survey of   est
Pakistan (l196-62)" estimated that inter-clty truclkng ton-miles has increased
by some 17 per cent annually.   DesTpite tais rapid increase, however, trucking
still accounts for only some 20 Uper cenat ot the total Provincial freight ton-
miles because of its relative insiglnificance a decade or so ago.   There is no
information available to ascertain the extent to    ini,ch trucking ancd bus opera-
tions on the Karach:L-Hyderabad road itself has participated in the general up-
ward growth of road transport.   In -the opinion of qualified observers truck
operations have growm rapidlv but bus traffic on0 the road has pvobably larged.
Present bus traffic on the route, whicha is well served by the rail1.ray, is still
very small, beinr7 only 12 vehicles per dar or 2 per cent of the average claily
traffic usinag the road.  Trucks, by contrast, account for over 55 per cent of
the vehicles on the road.
Jus tification
80.       Over the long run period to 1L985, which is thae present horizon limit
of planning in Pakistan, a minimum average annual growth in .,TP of 5 per cent
is envisaged. During the Third Five Year Plan (1965-70) the Goverruneit expects
that this rate should be at least 5.4 n.er cent per annum.   To attain this will
necessitate stepping: un total public and private inireatment from A?s. 2.6
billion in the Second Plan to ?-s. 4.6 billion in the Third Plan, one aalf of
which would be in Jeest Pakistan.  Thaese figures e-clude the Indus Basin Progra-
which is outside the Plan.   If these objectives are achieved there should be
sufficient traffic potential to warrant a general growth of both road and. rail
transport, each in its proper sphiere.
31.       The railway's share in total traffic can be expected to decrease,
howTever, as the economy grows and its structure changes,   The growth in manu-
facturing and service industries has already created a new demand for special-
ized and fast transport services and for flexible shipping schedules geared to
t'he needs of shippers and consignees.  There is a growing e.mphasis on transport
service - speed, schedulin7 frequency, flexibility of operations, eqLuapment
specialization, qualit-y and dama-;e control, less stringent packaging requlire-
ments, etc. - whichi can best be milet at a lover real cost by road transport.



- 17 -
82.       The growth of population and incomes in Karachi has stimulated the
demand for fresh fruits, vegetables and other perishables and made possible
the payments of the higher transport costs involved. Traffic surveys on the
Karachi-Hyderabad road, for example, show that two-thirds of the goods now
trucked into Karachi consist of such agricultural products and local staples
which are nroduced in relatively small loads from widely scattered farms.
Outward movements consist nainly of locally manufactured goods and higher value
imprtsn-1- on w~hic -h invntov  s 'rg etc* are signif i rfnt.  Tt apn rs t-- refore;
that in terms of perishability, loadability, value per unit, and the small
average size of shipments that the goods now being transp      Peted hv rnnr are
generally moving by the most efficient and lowest real cost means and that
-rff^ is qllo^--ing -i~f^J~~1%+ t  sel-r on th.e ba;sis of Irealistic cotsan.d charges,i
Existing road users are being fairly heavily taxed.    Import duties, for example,
are 150 per cent of t    Karachi 4 cf4 -p- l   g    i       per c   nt      ^
cent sales tax on lubricants; 50 - 250 per cent on private cars; 272 per cent
-Lus L) -, LIU 15 Upr ct s  ax on  ra c  and buses .  TIn a'dit- on,cat aruck
would pay about US$2C0 in annual license fees and a private car some US$5,O.
83.       The railway system, as a whole,carries a total of over 13 million tons
of fLre±ighIt  U <,nd L ±  13 LLI I I on passen ers anr.ually. The present small ileet of
trucks (23,000) and buses (10,000), many of which confine their operations within
ULle -aUdan areas, wouLdL be uriaule to cope Lia h Iiacu of the -nLcreased Udeman  for
transport.  The need for extra road transport capacity has been discussecl during
negot±~uiaoL±.  TL.1 GUVtrL1tL ofIiPhsU Ua rh.as tLi enatively pro-vided for t'ie re-
placement oi 13,000 old vehicles and for 2,500 additional vehicles for West Pa-
kistan in thle Third Five-Year Plan (19f,5-70)* These figures are considered
adequate.   Since the credit negotiations, the Association has heard that an
agreement has been entered into whereby a foreign truck manufacturing firm will
establish a plant in Karachi with an outpult of 4,000 vehicles annually in its
fourth and subsequent years of operation.
84.       The new Karachi-Hyderabad road wvill significantly change existing
distance, time and cost factors.   The distance between the towns will be
shortened from 124 to 94 miles.   The journley times of passenger cars rmay be
reduced from about 14.0 hours to 2.5 hours and those for trucks and buses from
over 5.0 hours to about 3.0 hours.   Real operating costs for a full length one-
way trips for trucks and buses may falL from about Rs. 100 to Rs. 55, ancl for
passenger cars from Rs. 40 to Rs. 25.
85.       These changes could have significant economic consequences.     Farmers
in the fertile Indus Valley should find themselves economically closer to the
large and growing Karachi market. Businessmen in Hyderabad should be able to
operate  with smaller inventories and have a greater dependence on the transport
of stocks from Karachi.   It is reasonable to anticipate that traffic in tlhe
Karachi-Hyderabad areas will grow at a fast rate because of the presently grow-
ing or planned industries located there, the products of which have a relatively
high tjransport component. In addition, since the Government envisages extending
the highway to Lahore, and the north as soon as financially possible, there is
the possibility of extra traffic being generated when this takes place.
86.       The construction of the road should have a high traffic multip:lier
effect.  With appropriate outside assistance to support the local develop-
ment efforts, a long-term growth of the economy should be achieved.     It
is clearly impossible, however, on the basis of existing information to



measure nrecisely the oevelopr.ent stiiuus ancd the traffic that it iw ill uroduce
on this road. HIovever, the b2ne°ic ae.cru la to road -Csers alone is s:uficient
to produce a satisfactory return on the investment.
87. *     Although there are surges of up bo 1,500 vehicles per day on some
sections of the road, traffic survevs carried out by the consultants show that
some 370 trucks and buses and siightly over euu automobiles, traveleu biie iul
length of the road between Karachi and. Hyderabad per day in 1962. These vehicles,
-.Tnich represent 90 per cent of the average daily traf-f ic using the road, can be
e:nected to divert to the new shorter road immediately upon its opening to
traffic.  If tnis traffic volume increasec1 at only 2 per cent per annum -w-hich
is on:Lv one half of the past annual avera7e growjth rate of 'est Pakistan's
economy - tne savings resultin. f'rom a 30-mile reduction in distance and from.
lower vehicLe opera-ting costs on the hiiher standard road are sufficient to
produce a rate of return of 8 per cent, discounted over the life of the facility,
after allow-!ing for maintenance costs.  If traffic w;ere to increase at 7 per cent
per annum, .i.e. sligihtly faster th.r, thie expected. 5 per cent per annum long term
-rowJth rate in the economy - a relationshnip which has been observed in many of
the Bank's rmember countries - thie rate of return would increase to over 11
per cent.
88.       Thnose percentages understate the true benefits and develo-omentJl
consequences of the nerT road in that the. exclude:
(-i)  the econom3ic repercussions on production and consualption in the
Karachi and Hirderabad districts as a result of greatly reduced
trucking- and bus operatina costs;
(ii)  the lower real costs of carr-yins inventories or stocks in tran-
sit resulting frol! quicker transport turn around ti:ies;
(iii)  the possible savin,s at.ributable to a reduction in the -.1ictor
vehicle accident rate;
(iv)  the value of time saved for at least some private car users;
(v) the reduction in vehicle operating costs to local users remai-
ning on the existing road resulting from the transfer of Q0 per
cent of the existing traffic to the new rocad;
(vi.) the increased road maintenance and vehicle operating- costs that
would be incurred if the existin7 road had to carr-r roW'i_lg
traffic volumes.
89   .    Thpre is inqiiffirienti -' j mnf-jf )  .na;ion  measure these ardit-i- n *onao-rfl bni
or to evaluate fully the development stimulus. It is reasonable to assume that
somne of them. would .m.ateria1lize- Therefore, on the basis of evTen the m.init1mum
growth rate that may be expected the construction of the higlhway is economically
s  fie d



- 19 -
B.  The Jhelum. Ravi and Sutlei Bridges
90.        The preset structures, which t         three new bridges would either
complement or replace, are functionaLly inadequate for the volumes of mixed
traffi c t.hey have to carry. For a nnbe~'rof' tecrhni cal resn tnderningof
the existing Jhelum and Ravi structures would be both costly and difficult.
It would involve a]so racomplete closure of these +wo bridges for      n pro1]onge
period during which road traffic would have to make long detours over
ostretches of 10-St-an'd-ard, unPa-ted roads.  St,re gth nin  of +1h s+tnruc+tur
would also require their closing but would not ease the traffic jams or
innacrs --l- f1-   of- _ ai 4,r-4P4 .  -     vehicle4-s  A pedestrans. would be
allowed on the new bridges, while animal drawn vehicles, pedestrians and
G1 |Ill  | I'll[   4.1 -- - P1W _1.   WV(J* __ X -   -  &A>  It -1J 1J-1  G i.4-)  1_ 1  s oWA>- - G
91.L- lill       CIC bhle bldges5 011 be loa-e' on the main northsuhlg.a
_L                  e~±~I±  ~ J±   U ' iSD  Uat   U I  uiil I1"CL.Li LiU±   ~  _Wii- uUil  i
which is experiencing the fastest rate of inter-city traffic growth.       The
exLstlng buridges arie an impedimULent to traffic 'Ldow inU1 Ltha  theU UI11y in1VUolVe load
restrictions, the Jhelum bridge, for example, is restricted to less than 5-ton
__n                                         1--   -3 -   L'  -  A. _   L  ,_  1  I. i4-
axLe loaUd vehicles, WhIle th1L'1e SJut,lUej boat UrilUgU i  limited toUU U - 4t  grs
weight vehicles.   Added inconveniences at this latter bridge are that buses
must unloaci before crossing and that it is only open to traffic for 9 mcnths
in the year.e
92.        The structural condition of the Jhelum Bridge, which was built in
1872, does not warrant heavy use.    It is a combination road-rail structure
without sidewalks and with only a l4-foot wide pavement for use by motor
vehicles, pedestrians and animals. T'raffic movements are restricted to one
direction at a time. Bullock carts, which are the slowest moving vehicles
travel about 3 to 4 mph, take uo to 20 minutes to cross the bridge and 1limit
all traffic to this crawrling speed.   Brealcdoin of heavily loaded trucks or
buses traveling in low gear have been knowm to block the bridge for hours.
As traffic grows annually, the length of the queues waiting to cross the
bridge increases.
93.        Ihe existing bridge is located near the center of the city of Jhelum
and will continue to serve the heavy pedestrian, bullock cart and other local
traffic. The new bridge located on the outskirts of the city will primarily
serve fast moving through and local traffic.
94.        Although the Ravi Bridge, whlich was built in 1915, is in a better
structural condition, it is a major bottleneck because of the narrow pavement
(18 feet wide) for two-way traffic,    Located on the immediate outskirts of
Lahore, which has almost doubled in population over the past decade and
become an important industrial and market center, the bridge produces traff-c
jams that back up into the town itself at peak periods. The proposed four
lane bridge will relieve the heavy conjestion carried by the existing stiucture.
95.        Because of the limitations at the existing Sutlei pontoon bridge
heavy goods vehicles avoid the crossing by making a detour of some 60 miles
from the main road. As a result it is mainly used by local bus and automobile
traffic. A permanent bridge will avoid the transit and trarnshipmenat delays,
significantly shorten the truck route between Karachi and the north and
improve access to the agricultural area between the east bank of the Sutilej
and the Indian border.



- 20 -
<>S.      Recent trafic counts on the te -iges in the p           
the average daily traffic:
Jhelu-i        Ra-vi      Sutlej Boat
Type of Traffic             ]3ridge       Bridge         Bridge
A.-                                       r O i\0,
HiU orF1ob I eEi            8U8(.          810              5
uses                         3760         (70             161
Truc1Ks  (a) Light          2;e )I         470   )13
(b) Me dium/he avy  1,143 )              )
Motorcycles and Bicycles   2,379            n.a.           14
Bullock carts and tongas 1/  489         1,485              7
Animals on the hoof        1,32C)           n.a.           n.a.
1/ Horse-drawn cabs
9?.       Unfortunately no satisfactory information is available to measure
the average time delays and their value to the different types of traffic nor
for their arrival rates and average crossing times. It is not possible,
therefore, to quantify the value of time lost in relation to the investment
costs of the new bridges. On the basis, however, that the average delay to
heavy trucks and buses only at the Jhelum bridge is 20 minutes because of the
time it takes a bullock cart to cross the bridge, the present value of the
time saving benefits to only these commercial vehicles is sufficient to produce
a return on the investment of 10.0% (*)*  This is an understatement in that
it excludes the cost of time delays tlo private cars and light trucks and also
the inevitable increases in costs that arise as traffic continues to increase.
98.       The rationale for providing these new bridges is that the present
structures have outlived their economic usefulness for heavy fast movirg traf-
fic. Undoubtedly, West Pakistan could struggle on with the existing crossings
but only at the cost of increasing congestion and delays. Fuirthermore, in the
case of the Jhelum and Sutlej bridges the load restrictions are such that they
constitute a serious impediment to the most important type of traffic, i.e.
trucks and buses. The proposed bridges in this project will be able to carry
safely and conveniently all the foreseeable traffic. Their inclusion in the
project is, therefore, justified and recormended.
(*) Assumpt;ions: Cost of commercial vehicle working time Rs 18 per hour;
1519 vehicles; 300 working days per annum; 35 years life
to bridge.



- 21 -
C. Management Consultants
99e        As ci seussei under Seet-ion TT of the renort. the B & R has to contend
with many difficult problems including those of organization, administration,
are becoming more apparent as traffic: demands grow. The B & R is aware of the
need to expand ar.d ie prove the l4      y sysm-- and i  now - -taking step- in that
direction.   The decisions now being made will have an important bearing on the
.f ~uiL. - v OtJCL%,L c Jy orL UI±- Le hLIghway 0,yse.U1A ITLUs L.t -LO V  Uiiith tLhe Vl .9' . R IL e
reorganized and strengthened as soon as possible to enable it to fulfill its
___,; --    ~~~~~~~1"'I4 4-..
1.   uW that.I.~  'U[Ic UU,LUL1 UJ. UconLJsci  of teifUUrst L1 r,.ode ivjr .LLI the i U-,uvItiL' is
about to get under way, and feasibility studies for additional roads are now
being untidertalken, Lt-. 4 o - o  early to- 4 tar  the-4 4long and- ---lf-cl 4t;-I of
ULI~LI Ud~LI,.L U  J-0  LI!U  U%JL  t:CU..LY  UU  OUCL,d  U  U.LM; -LUELtg  CtLIU  k .L.L.L± LL-U U  U~LQ.Xl  UJ.
building up a competent and modern highway organization and, in particuLar,
GL- .Lk .LU<L1k,t JlzltU1tJnlUttnanC:  4-cl  dsUl}Z 1bdSgulrvctt  evu{@l         U
an efficient maneacLognzto                .EThis ass5LgignmentU cart Vbes be Ual-'ie o'ZUtUU
by a competent tean of technical and management specialists (paragraphs 67-68
above).   Th e Assoc-ation!s experience is the basis for th- ueuenination       of thae
number of staff members required.     The time period estimated for their employ-
mrent is the rM-iniml-r n[eeded to do the job p-roperly.



V.  CONCLUSIONS ANI) RECONMMNDATIONS
101.      I'he project is technically f'easible and economically justified on
the basis of providing a satisfactory return on investment.
102.      The cost estimate is soundly- based and includes a reasonable allow-
ance for contingencies.
103.      Assurances have been obtaine!d from the West Pakistan Government that
it will engage consultants satisfactory to the IDA:
a) To DrenDare the final olans and contract documents for the
Karachi-Hyderabad Highway and to supervise its construction
b) To reriew.r the fin pl onln  tf the Ran andm Siuft1  1R-ri s anA
to supervise construction on all three bridges on a full-time
Wee*; nnnr4 Ant nan-nC  nAe eny  .nr n  f  ln   .
67 - 68).
d) To carry out feasibility studies of access to Karachi and its
portd and tUo t1JOydderabLad (pa:ragraph 69).
.LO4t. A.t;suranc.; LIave been olutai±ned1 fJromi, tULhie C'ienturaIl GovernmULent thIatU ±iU
will undertake that sufficient funds will be available to carry out tlhe project
%an  u hat the,se fu L 1i li be ruaU. ,LJ.V.de .I ai:'V  as. reqUi-u (padra,gCtaFL1 7)/.
1U0.      lgreemeUR  hda been reachdU WLuiu the wesu Pakista-rbn Governurient rcgardhig
the Karachi-Hyderabad Highway that it rill:
a) Use adequate design standtards including provision for right-
of-way sufficiently wide i'or a four-lane divided 1highway
(paragraph 43).
b) Make adequate provision to insure that the highway will be
properly maintained (paragraph 44).
c) Enforce existing highway regulations (paragraph 46).
d) Limit access to prevent ri.bbon development along the right-
of-way (paragraph 46).
e) Restrict traffic to fast moving vehicles and confine slow
moving traffic to the part, of the right-of-way reserved for
the future two lanes (paragraph 46).
f) Carry out peri.odic traffic: counts for a period of ten years
(paragraph 47).
106.      The project provides a suitable 'basis for a development credit by
the Association of US$17.0 million equivalent.
May 18, 19614.



YEST PAKISTA-
H I  WA-Y _5 OJECT
Motor Vehic:le Statistics
A) Number of Registered Motor Vehicles
Motor Cars     Trucks     Buses      Othersi/        Total
-       -        -
1958        43,600       15,420     8,510        n.a,
1959        48,630       14,960     8,480       3,750         75,820
1960        514,360      19,190    10,340       6,470         90,360
1961        6CI,820      21,L410    9d860      10,220        102,310
1962        65,270      23,010     9,670      16,820        114,770
B)  Age Distribution of Registered Trucks and Buses (1961-62)
Trucks              Buses            Total
Age in Years       No.        '       No.      ,,        No.   -
Below 5 years     4.,016   24.4      2,663    30.0      6,679  26.4
5 - 10           4 4,380  26.6      2,476    27.9      6,856  27.1
10 - 15    "      3,055    18.5      2,000    22.6      t,055  19o9
15 - 20   t       3,841    23.3      1,082    12.2      4,923  19.4
Over 20    t      1,190     7.2         640    7.2      1,830    7.2
Totals   1677      100.0      87872 100.0       25,343 100.0
"On the road" (12.049)   (73.1)    (6,205) (70.0)    (18,254)(72.0)
C)  CarrvinR Capacity of Truclcs "on the road" in West Pakistan (1961-62l2/
CaDacity in Tons        Number        %
3                 1,776      lL.8
4                 2,66S7     22.1
5                 L, 563     37.8
6                 2,3:L8     19.2
7                   LB5       L.O
8                   2C)3      1.7
9                    114       _
10                   1L8        -
_           ____  ~~~~~5   _
Total       12,0I9      100.0 (rounded.)
1/najlivery   nns, fuepl tanker.s, qrbul-ntps. auto-ri nk.haws - Ptr.
-_                                           ,                ,  _…
is estimated to be "off the road". because some vehicles are out of
setUc thog the lac.k of spare parts, e..lt..**p.%d5*%t , etc., or are.
registered for only a part of the year.
Source: Part A - Central Statistical Cffice
Pat   B    :ru C- -i~ u!Ies  s   Rporr   ourvuey, 179J.-62.



TABLE 2
T.rb C'm A 7 A E T
V1L) I l±Ai~n- J1P IaY
HIGhl,'hY PAOJECT
HI.whway Expenditures During Five-Year Plans
(In niilli ons ofI Aupees)
Fiscal Year           Constimetion         IMaintenance
1956-1957                39.4                  20.3
l957-1958                1L.4                  21.2
l958-199                145.3                  25.4
1959-196o                37.5                  22.3
1i60-1961                26.7                  21.9
1961-1962                ,0.7                  34.2
1962-1963                42.2                  30.
1963-1964 '              70.3                  39.1
* Allocations
Source:  Build±ings and Roads Branch



Table 3
WEST PAKISTAAN
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards
Karachi-Hyderabad Highway
Designi speed (MPH)                      70
Minimum radius (feet)                   1650
Maximtm gradient (percent)                 4
Stopping sight distence (feet)          600
Maximum superelevation (percent)          8
Right-of-way width (feet)               224
Pavement width (feet)                    24
Shoulder width (feet.)                    10
Maximum axle load                          9 tons nlus 20PO for impact
Bridge design loading                   Indian Road Congress "AA" or "A"
Bridge road.way width (feet)              28 (un to 100 foot length)
26 (over 1000 foot length)
Slooe of fills                          2:1
Jhelum. Ravi and Sutlei TRhri-de
Bridge design loading                  ITndian Road Congress AA
Bridge roadway width (curb to curb,
.Thelum3                   feet)       28
Ravi                                    45
Suit1 p                                24
S1idewa:!k r4d-th (feet)
Jheltun                                  3
Ravi5
Sutle j                                 5
by Ammann & Whitney Internat.ional Ltd.



Table h
WIST PAI STAN
HIGiVjAY _.PROJECT
List of Works and Cost Estimate
(In millions of US dollars equivalent)
1. Road Construction                       Local      Foreign       Total
Karachi - Hyderabad Road (89 miles)     9.00*        9.80       18.80
Engineering                             0.70         0.70        1.40
9.70        10.50       20.20
2.  Bridge Construction
Jhelum Bridge (3,300 feet)              2.10         1.05        3.15
Ravi Bridge (1,500 feet)                1.35         o.65        2.00
Sutlej Bridge (2,000 feet)              1.55         0.70        2.25
Review of design and field super-
vision                                0.10         0.20        0.30
5.10         2.60        7.70
3.  Consultants'Services and Laboratory
.F"acilities
Management consultants to B & R           o.60       0.90        1.50
Central and field laboratory facilities 0.25         0.25        0.50
Feasibilitv studies of access to
Karachi and Hyderabad                 0.05         0.05        0.10
0.90         1.20        2.10
Sub-total                        :15.70        14h30       30.00
Contingencies (about 18%)          2.U0         2.70        5.50
TOTAL                        18.50        17.00       35.50
*  Includes right-of-way cost of Us"11.5 mil:Lion
and goverrnment duties and taxes of US,3'5 mi lion.



TabiLe 5
Page 1
IoJEST PAKISTAN
HIGHWAY PIROJECT
(Karachi - Hyderabad Road)
riotor Vehicle Operating Costs (net of taxes)
Old            New
A) Trucks and Buses                                 Route          Route
Distance (miles)                                   124        9-    4
Annual average mileage per vehicle              24,000         28,w00
Average life of vehicle (miles)                144.,000      196,000
(or 6 years)   (or 7 years)
Operating Costs                                   Rs.             Rs.
Insurance 1/                                       180            180
Labor 2/                                         4,500          ,500
Fuel y                                           2,880          3,000
Lubricants 4/                                      150            150
Tires 5/                                           800          1,000
Repairs, servicing, garaging 6/                  4,800          3,000
Sub-total               13,310        11,830
Depreciation 7/                                  5,000          4,270
Interest g/                                        500            430
Total                   18,810         16,530
Operating cost per vehicle mile (Rs.)             0.78          0.59
Source:   Information provided by Consultants and Bank Mission estimates.,
Notes:
1/ Assuming 1/3 of vehicles at comprehensive risk rates, 1/3 at third
Darty risk rates and 1/3 at third partv accident only risk rates.
2/ Assuming l4 men per vehicle at Rs. 3,(000 p.a. wages.
7/ Assumingt 300 working days: fuel consumotion 10 miles per gallon at PRS
1,2 per gallon (c.i.f, Karachi) on old route and 11 m.p.g. on new routte.
)t/ Assuming 5 per cent tof A/_
A Assuming 6 tires costing Rs. 1,000 per set (c.i.f. Karachi) per 30,00 miles.
hqSnmi nr RS 200! averp,nap por 1 -MO m41  on ldA route   A R. I0 on n new
Zj  - - 1,'.     _-          rl   -i-            11 - --          - - -       '
route.
7/ A sisrMn vr iile 1-inf  equasnls     A %mos  or. oltd roue anr. 7 yern^s on n,  route
at cost of Rs. 30,000 c.i.f. Karachi less cost of one set of tires.
A/ A-.e,ninep -r.tea-  of 10 per cent p, a. an -. n-e-maen+



Table 5
Pag_r 2
Old            New
B) Irivate Cars                                      Route         Route
Distance (miles)                                    124            94
Average annual mileage                           15,000        15,000
,Average life of' vehicle                        90.000       105.00O
(or 6 years)   (or 7 years)
Operating Costs                                     Rs.           Rs.
Insurance 1/                                        300           300
Thie1 2/  -1,000                                                  900
Lubricants 3/                                        50            45
Tires   I X                                         500           500
Repairs and maintenance 5/                        1,500            750
Deprec-aton                                       I A7C         1   2
To 'c                     ,020           ,920
nSp.erati S cost ]r evehicle mdi'~ (Rs.03302
Source: As above.
.L/ A1., lnL 1.  aU1V/ obv,
j As in 1 3/ above, but 18 m.p.g. on old route and 20 m.p.g. on new route.
3/ A;in LU  Y Lf arO-Ve.
:/ Assuming 1 set of 4 tires every 15,000 miles at Rs. 500 per set,
a/ Assuming Rs. 100 per 1,000 miles oll old route and Rs. 50 per 1,000     .les
on new route.
6/ Assuming vehicle life equals 90,00() miles on old route and 105,000 miles
on new route at cost of Rs. 10,000 c.i.f. Karachi, less cost of 1 set cf
tires.



…         -w@vov----v0+--                    S           t 0 st * XAD
-c  / ^ J         'IF  l  Gl  , '  /<X
i 1
ore~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
C4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
La~~~~~~~~~~~~



