Document of
FILE COP                       BThe World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
1,5              l
Report No. P-2099-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SIXTH LOAN
TO THE
KOREA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
June 1, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Won
Won 485        - US$1.00
Won 1,000      - US$2.06
Won 1,000,000 - US$2,061.86
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Korea Development Finance Corporation
Borrower:        Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC)
Amount:           $70.0 million
Terms:            The proposed loan will bear interest at 8.2% per annum.
Amortization to conform substantially to the aggregate of
the amortization schedules applicable to the specific
investment projects financed out of the proceeds of the
proposed loan. The maximum repayment period would be 17
years, including three years of grace.
Purpose:          The proposed loan would be used to help cover the foreign
exchange requirements of industrial subprojects to be
financed by KDFC.
Estimated
Disbursement:                Calendar Year       US$ Million
1977               15.8
1978               48.8
1979                5.4
Appraisal Report:   1578-KO, dated May 26, 1977.
This document has a rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pet _ mla
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Sank euthorlzson.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE KOREA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $70.0 million to the Korea
Development Finance Corporation (KDFC) to be guaranteed by the Republic of
Korea. Interest on the loan would be at 8.2% per annum. The loan would be
repaid in conformity with a schedule based on the aggregate of the amortiza-
tion schedules of KDFC's subloans, which would have a maximum repayment
period of 17 years, including 3 years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report ("Growth and Prospects of the Korean
Economy") was distributed under cover of SecM77-158 dated March 4, 1977.
The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Recent Economic Developments
3.        During the last few years, the external economic environment has
been subject to unexpected, sharp and sudden changes which seriously affected
economic activity in Korea and, more particularly, its external trade and pay-
ments situation. The boom in world trade led to increases in the volume of
Korean exports of 46% and 54% in 1972 and 1973 respectively. But in 1974,
the quadrupling of oil prices combined with a sharp rise in the prices of
foodgrains and capital goods led to a deterioration of 18% in the terms of
trade. At the same time, the deep recession in the industrialized countries
caused a slackening in the growth of exports to some 9%. The purchasing power
of exports, which had expanded by over 46% each year in 1972 and 1973, actually
decreased by nearly 11% in 1974. During 1975 export volume grew by a remark-
able 23%, assisted by the devaluation of the won in December 1974 and a very
vigorous drive to expand and diversify markets. However, part of this gain
was offset by a further deterioration of 10% in the terms of trade.
4.        Among the major economic targets set by the Government in 1976 were
the containment of inflation to 10% and a reduction in the balance of payments
current account deficit substantially from $1.9 billion in 1975 to $1.4 billion.
The former goal was achieved and the latter substantially surpassed. Wholesale
prices which had increased by nearly 80% between the end of 1973 and the end
of 1975 have increased by around 9% in 1976, primarily because import costs
(which more than doubled between 1972 and 1974) apparently decreased by
about 2% in 1976; moreover, the growth in domestic credit was limited in 1976
to 21% (compared with increases of 54% and 32% in 1974 and 1975 respectively).
5.        Primarily, as a result of the recovery in the OECD countries,
Korea's exports appear to have increased in 1976 by about 44% in volume and
there was an improvement of 13% in the terms of trade. While part of this
Paragraphs 3-16 are almost identical to those contained in the corresponding
section of the President's Report (No. P-2027-KO) on the Second Ports Project
(Loan 1401-KO) which was approved on April 12, 1977.



- 2 -
increase in exports may have been supplied by a drawing-down of inventories,
it is evident that it could not have been achieved without substantial
additions to production capacity in the last couple of years. A remarkable
feature of Korea's economic management through the crisis of 1974 and 1975
was that fixed investment continued to grow at an average of 11% per annum in
constant 1970 prices, raising its ratio to GNP from 24.3% in 1973 to 25.6% in
1975.
6.        The real growth of GNP in 1976 is estimated at 15.2% as compared
with an average increase of 8.5% in the two previous years. This was the
result primarily of buoyant exports, but the extraordinary growth in agricul-
tural output was also a significant factor. Value added in agriculture grew
at over 7% in each of the last two years. While weather conditions were
favorable over the past three seasons, there has also been a real improvement
in yields as a result of better technology and the more effective use of the
various inputs.
7.        Although there was a large increase in the outstanding external debt
during the Third Plan period (1972-76), the real burden of external debt has
in fact declined. The ratio of debt service payments to exports (of goods and
nonfactor services) declined from an average of 21% in the early 1970s to an
estimated 11% at the end of 1976. Total outstanding debt is estimated at
about$7 billion in medium- and long-term maturities and an additional $2 bil-
lion in maturities of less than one year. Debt service payments are estimated
to have been nearly $1 billion in 1976, which was well within Korea's repay-
ment capacity.
8.        It would appear that Korea achieved several of the objectives it
set for itself in the Third Plan, despite the balance of payments difficul-
ties experienced in 1974 and 1975 and a generally less favorable international
economic environment than had been expected. The rate of growth of GNP was
around 11% per year compared with the original target of 8.6%. Considerable
progress has also been made in expanding the manufacturing sector. However,
progress in reducing reliance on foreign savings and in restraining inflation
fell short of expectations. Furthermore, even with employment growing at 4%
per annum during the Third Plan period, there has been little improvement in
the unemployment situation. Although over two million jobs were created
during the Third Plan period, they were barely sufficient to keep pace with
the growth in the labor force; the open unemployment rate in the urban areas
remains at about 7%.
Longer-Term Prospects and Program
9.        The preparation of the Fourth Plan (1977-81) has afforded an oppor-
tunity for a comprehensive review of Korea's economic problems, prospects and
priorities. Korea's longer-term goals as specified in the Plan are "growth
with enhanced self-sufficiency" and "greater equity and social development."
It is the firm intention of the Korean Government to achieve a maximum rate
of growth consistent with a sound balance of payments and also with the main-
tenance of internal financial stability. The Plan projects that the current
account deficit will be eliminated during the next few years. National sav-
ings are expected to finance as much as 92% of total investment as compared
with about 72% in the Third Plan period (1972-76). However, these projections



- 3 -
may prove overly optimistic. The domestic savings target appears somewhat
ambitious, while the projected investment requirements may turn out to be too
low.
10.       Growth and stability are not the only objectives.   Enhanced equity
and greater social development are also of importance in the Korean scheme of
things. The main emphasis is: (a) on providing adequate employment oppor-
tunities for the rapidly growing labor force to prevent aggravating the
unemployment problem; and (b) on achieving a wider distribution of the bene-
fits of growth. Rising employment is the most important instrument for
achieving an equitable distribution of the benefits of growth. This is all
the more so because, despite the success in reducing the rate of growth of
population to around 1.8% per annum, the labor force continues to grow at
over 3% per annum because of the baby boom following the Korean War in the
early 1950s. Health outlays will increase as a proportion of total invest-
ment with special stress on preventive care and an innovative health deliv-
ery system to service low income families, especially in the rural areas.
Rural incomes are expected to increase as a result of a further improvement
in agricultural terms of trade and increased opportunities for nonfarm employ-
ment, primarily through the Saemaeul (New Community) Movement and small indus-
tries development. The quality of life in the rural areas is to be further
enhanced by the provision of additional infrastructure facilities.
11.       The achievement of these goals would not require a change in the
basic development strategy of export-led growth, which Korea has followed
so successfully since the mid-sixties. GNP is expected to rise at 9.2% per
annum, fueled by the growth of 16% per annum in the volume of manufactured
exports. The manufacturing sector, which now contributes 32% of GNP, is
expected to provide 54% of the increase in GNP during the Plan period,
increasing at 14.3% a year. The ratio of commodity exports to GNP is
expected to rise from the current level of about 30% to about 42% in 1981,
with the manufacturing sector providing about 92% of total exports compared
with 85% in 1975. This demands the achievement of continuous gains in effi-
ciency and productivity. Korea's comparative advantage will gradually shift
towards manufactures, such as machinery, electronics and shipbuilding, which
require relatively more skilled labor. It is also necessary to achieve some
import substitution in steel and chemicals to ensure an adequate supply of
intermediate inputs for the export industries. These changes in the indus-
trial structure will require intensive efforts to improve the mechanisms for
the transfer of foreign technology and the development of appropriate indi-
genous technology.
12.       The Plan targets for exports are challenging but appear to be
attainable, given the extraordinary drive of the Korean exporters, a con-
tinuation of the present level of export incentives and the assumption that
the economies of the OECD countries will grow at an average rate of around
4-5% annually while the volume of world trade expands at an annual rate of
about 8% during the period.
13.       Strong policy measures are envisioned in the Plan to increase the
mobilization of domestic resources. Success in restraining inflation is
expected to have a significantly favorable effect on the mobilization of
private savings. In the past, private savings have fluctuated with the move-
ment of the terms of trade and the rate of inflation. The terms of trade are



- 4 -
projected to be fairly stable through the Fourth Plan period and a rate of
inflation of the order of 10% a year is foreseen. The Government has taken
measures designed to channel the higher private savings likely to be gener-
ated by these developments to an increasing extent into the financial sys-
tem, and, thereby, into more effective use for productive investments. In
addition to restoring a positive real rate of return on financial forms of
savings, the measures include the imposition of a capital gains tax at the
rate of 50% on undeveloped land, and 30% on nonprincipal household dwellings.
Funds that went into real estate are now flowing into the securities market
where the after-tax yields are more attractive. At the same time, direct
measures have been taken to force corporations to "go public", thus increasing
the supply of corporate securities. Steps are also being taken to increase
the variety of financial securities in terms of maturities, yields and con-
ditions that would constitute an attractive package to investors.
14.       The measures to increase the mobilization of private savings are
being supported by fiscal actions to increase public savings. The defense
tax surchage imposed in 1975 is to be continued and a value-added tax intro-
duced. The extent of the subsidization of farmers and urban consumers through
the Grain Management Fund and the Fertilizer Fund is being reduced. The
increased resource mobilization and the strong restraint on most current
expenditures will result in substantial budgetary current surpluses which
could be used to finance capital expenditures.
15.       The Plan's priorities, strategy and programs are sound.    The con-
tinued emphasis on relatively rapid growth is essential in the light of the
need to create additional employment for the growing labor force. Further-
more, the predominant role the export sector is expected to play is appro-
priate in view of Korea's limited natural resources. Moreover, Korea has the
manpower and the entrepreneurial capacity to implement the Plan's investment
program. The Plan strikes a reasonable balance between the various objec-
tives of increasing employment, maintaining a minimum growth of per capita
incomes, strengthening the balance of payments and making progress towards
diversifying the industrial structure so as to sustain export growth in the
1980s.
16.       The main impediment to the successful implementation of the Plan
is likely to be the difficulty that Korea may encounter in raising the
necessary resources. As indicated above, Korea's ability to meet its invest-
ment requirements from domestic savings may fall short of the Plan projec-
tions, while a sizeable continuing inflow of external capital will also be
necessary to help meet the burden of amortizing the external debt. It is
estimated that Korea may need to borrow an average of $2.5 billion per annum
over the next several years, and its ability to obtain foreign capital in
adequate amounts and in reasonable terms will continue to be a challenge.
The servicing of the debt should not pose serious difficulties given the
present debt servicing ratio and the prospects for continued export growth
provided that the proportion of external debt incurred on shorter term and at
high interest rates is not excessive. On the assumption that Korea can
obtain the required inflow of capital on reasonable terms, the debt service
ratio which now stands at around 11% is expected to decline slowly to just
under 10% at the end of the decade and remain at that level during the 1980s.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       As of March 31, 1977, Korea had received 30 Bank Loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, amounting in total to $1,350.3 mil-
lion in loans and $106.9 million in credits (taking into account cancellations
and the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan).
18.       A substantial part ($491.2 million) /1 of Bank financing has been for
the transport sector. $194.5 million has been lent for agriculture projects.
The Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC) has received $150 million,
the Korea Development Bank (KDB) $142.5 million, and the Medium Industry Bank
(MIB) $30 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry. A total
of $80.3 million has been provided for three education projects; $25.0 mil-
lion for a tourism project; $15.0 million for a secondary cities project;
and $60.0 million for a rural infrastructure project. In addition, two pro-
gram loans amounting to $175.0 million have also been granted to Korea.
19.       As of March 31, 1977, $494.1 million of the total Bank lending
remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits, mostly from commitments
in the past 18 months. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits, and IFC investments as of that date and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. As indicated in the notes, progress on project imple-
mentation is generally satisfactory.
20.       Excluding one project that was subsequently cancelled, IFC had
by March 31, 1977 entered into 16 commitments totalling $69.3 million
(net of participations and cancellations). On March 22, 1977, the Board
approved an investment of up to $15.37 million in the Korea Development
Leasing Corporation (KDLC), of which up to $10.0 million will be sold to
participants. Under consideration are projects in cement distribution,
special steels and construction materials.
21.       The emphasis which the Government places on agricultural and rural
development is reflected in the Bank's lending program for FY77. The Miho
Watershed Area Development Project, the Second Agricultural Credit Project
and a project encompassing the second stage of the development of the Yong
San Gang basin have been approved by the Executive Directors during this
fiscal year.
22.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large, and thus there is consider-
able support for this sector in the proposed program.
/1 A loan of $67.0 million for the Second Ports Project was approved by the
Executive Directors on April 12, 1977, and signed on April 28, 1977.



- 6 -
23.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt (dis-
bursed) outstanding at the end of 1975 was about 8.7%, and the share of debt
service was of the order of 4.6% at that time. These ratios are expected to
increase to around 18% and 11% by the end of the present decade.
PART III - THE ITDUSTRIAL SECTOR
24.       Korea has been able to sustain an impressive record of economic
performance for more than a decade: achieving an average growth rate of
aggregate real GNP of nearly 10% p.a. since 1962. This appears all the more
remarkable when judged in the context of the country's poor endowment of
natural resources. Since most of the country is mountainous, only about a
quarter of the land area is cultivable. Korea's mineral resources are also
limited: the country's principal known mineral resource still is anthracite
coal, available in quantity, but of relatively poor coking quality.
25.       Given the poor natural resource endowment, Korea's growth strategy
has been based on the expansion of manufacturing activity and of manufactured
exports, rather than on import substitution as has been the case in several
developing countries. Rapid growth induced considerable structural changes
in the economy. Though agriculture grew on average at a rate of 4% p.a.
between 1961-76, the rapid growth of the manufacturing sector, at nearly 19%
p.a. (almost double the rate of growth of real aggregate GNP), transformed the
nature of the economy from a predominantly agricultural one (the share of
agriculture, forestry, and fisheries, in GNP was 44% in 1961, while that of
mining and manufacturing was only 12%) to one which is significantly dependent
on mining and manufacturing (by 1976, the share of mining and manufacturing
in GNP is estimated to have risen to around 36%).
26.       The principal impetus to this extraordinary transformation of the
economy came from the growth of manufactured exports. In the early 1960s,
aggregate exports, though growing in relation to GNP, were still not very
significant. In 1965, commodity exports were $175 million; of this total,
manufactured exports amounted to $144 million, constituting about 8% of manu-
factured output. By 1976, commodity exports growing at about 32% in constant
prices over the past decade are estimated to have risen to almost $8 billion;
the share of manufactured exports in the total exceeded 90% and their share
in manufactured output was over 25%. The growth of manufactured exports was
accompanied by some changes in the structure of exports. Though Korea's
export pattern continued to display a high degree of reliance on a few
labor-intensive traditional exports: textiles, clothing, footwear, plywood,
electronics, and certain miscellaneous manufactures, there was a discernible
trend in the direction of more sophisticated skill-intensive products.
Several new light industry products, such as travel goods and plastic articles,
and heavy industry goods, such as electrical machinery and transport equipment
(including ships), were added to Korea's range of manufactured exports. At
the same time, despite the relatively negligible role of import substitution
in the aggregate, the pursuit of backward linkages, usually from exports,
enabled domestic production to replace imports in certain selective sectors,
e.g. textiles, apparel, sewing machines, certain metal products and chemicals,



-7-
and particularly after 1968, in particular sectors of the basic metal,
petrochemical and machinery industries. This has enabled Korea to prevent
its aggregate dependence on imported intermediates and investment goods from
rising significantly over the last decade.
27.       Korea's export performance and its efforts at selective import sub-
stitution were also reflected in the structural changes which occurred in
the manufacturing sector over the last decade. While value added in manufac-
turing rose at an annual rate of about 18.7% p.a. (in constant prices),
between 1962 and 1975, the composition of manufacturing output changed quite
significantly in favor of the metals, machinery and chemicals subsectors. The
share of these three major manufacturing groups rose from 21% in 1961 to
about 33% in 1975. The most striking increase was registered by the combined
machinery, electronics and shipbuilding industries spearheaded by electronic
products.
28.       Several factors have contributed to this remarkable industrial and
export performance: e.g. the impact of the concentration on labor intensive
activities; the efficiency of factor use in manufacturing (the sector is
characterized by low capital-output and capital-labor ratios); the rapid
growth of labor productivity due to the high levels of education, skills and
labor discipline as well as the maintenance of a high level of investment in
industry, at an average rate of about 7% p.a. during the last decade; the
monitoring of wage and productivity levels which has helped to maintain
Korea's competitive position with respect to its competitors - other developing
countries such as the Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, as well as the Republic
of China, Singapore and Hong Kong in certain product categories - and not the
least important, the combination of a broad range of export incentives, through
exchange rate policy and relatively low levels of protection, which have
maintained the profitability of Korean exporters in the face of relatively
high rates of domestic inflation without jeopardizing the efficiency of
resource allocation.
29.       Korea's long-term development plans are formulated on the premise
that its growth over the past decade, which was based on rapidly expanding manu-
factured goods exports, can be extrapolated through the early 1980s. To this
end, the Fourth Five Year Plan (1977-81) aims at the achievement of an
increase in manufactured exports of the order of about 16% per annum. This
target, together with a greater domestic demand for manufactured goods, will
require a growth rate in the output of the industrial sector of around 14%.
The Government is also convinced that the long-term viability of the Korean
economy depends upon reducing its reliance on imported capital and interme-
diate goods. Further, there is also a realization that the continued growth
of the industrial sector will be instrumental in providing relatively well
paid employment opportunities for the country's growing labor force. Korea's
industrial development strategy for the Fourth Plan period centers around
export expansion, net import substitution and meeting the growing home market
demand. Korea's rapid increase in skill-intensive exports is expected to
continue in the foreseeable future. Thus, the outlook for the further diver-
sification of industry by increasing the output of intermediate products -
especially steel and chemicals - and by developing engineering-based indus-
tries, appears to be promising.



- 8 -
30.       The Fourth Plan allocations reflect Korea's continuing reliance on
manufactured exports as the motive force of growth. The sharpest increases
in export shares over the Plan period are projected for machinery, ships, and
chemicals; the rate of growth of exports of these products is targeted at
around 30% p.a. between 1976 and 1981. Electronics follows next with a
projected growth rate of around 22% p.a. Light manufactured exports are
expected to grow at only about 11% p.a., the share of textiles and clothing
falling from 36% in 1975 to around 26% of total exports in 1981. Again the
Plan's investment program targets similar structural shifts within the
manufacturing sector; nevertheless, the share of manufacturing in total Plan
investment is only slightly larger (27%) than in the previous five years
(25%).
31.       The Plan's estimate of total investment required for the expan-
sion and restructuring of Korea's industrial sector has been set at around
$10.5 billion over the 1977-81 period. As indicated in para. 9 above,
there are grounds for believing, however, that Korea's investment needs for
1977-81 may have been underestimated, while the domestic savings target appears
somewhat ambitious. The conjunction of these two possibilities would lead to
a continued reliance on substantial (even if declining) inflows of foreign
capital. The Korean Government has in recent years undertaken a major effort
to mobilize resources. Apart from the establishment in 1973 of the National
Investment Fund (NIF), which is expected to finance a sizeable portion of the
investment needs of Korea's major industries by the early 1980s, the Govern-
ment has also embarked on a comprehensive capital market development plan,
including the restructuring of the Korean Securities Financing Corporation
and the development of new financial institutions such as the Korea Merchant
Banking Corporation and the Korea Export Import Bank. Over the period
1977-81, the Plan expects domestic funds to provide 63% of the aggregate
investment in manufacturing and foreign investment to provide the remainder.
About three-quarters of this foreign investment is expected to be directed to
the heavy and chemical sectors.
32.       The timely provision of long-term finance for the key industries
will depend to a large extent on the efficient operation of the NIF and the
tapping of other sources of funds such as Korea's three major development
finance companies, the Korea Development Finance Corporation, the Korea
Development Bank and the Medium Industry Bank. These three institutions
were responsible for 64% of the total medium- and long-term loans in Korea
in 1975. The Bank has already made two loans to KDB; the proposed loan will
be the Bank's sixth to KDFC. A loan for the MIB was also approved last year
in order to support the Government's efforts to encourage the location of
relatively small industrial units in the rural areas and so increase off-farm
employment opportunities. All three institutions have obtained loans from
the Asian Development Bank; KDFC and KDB have also been successful in borrowing
from commercial sources abroad. The magnitude of the demand for term finance
in Korea is such that these three institutions, even if their operations
increase significantly, will continue to act in a complementary rather than
a competitive manner.



- 9 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       A report entitled "Appraisal of Korea Development Finance Corporation"
(No. 1578-KO, dated May 26, 1977) is being distributed separately. Supplementary
Project Data are given in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington on
May 25-26, 1977 with a Korean delegation consisting of Mr. T. Y. Hahm, Vice
President of KDFC and Mr. T. Y. Kim, Economic Attache at the Korean Embassy
in Washington.
The Company
34.       KDFC, a privately owned company, was established in 1967 with the
assistance of the Bank Group (including an equity participation from IFC),
and the Federation of Korean Industries (FKI). KDFC has to date received
five Bank loans totalling $150 million. Of the fifth Loan ($55 million),
which was approved in July 1975, $52.1 million had been committed and $44.3 mil-
lion disbursed by March 31, 1977. It has also obtained two loans from the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) totalling $70 million. In May 1976, KDFC raised
its first foreign commercial loan from its foreign shareholders in an amount
of $19.8 million.
35.       KDFC's performance remains highly satisfactory from both the
developmental and institutional standpoints. It has continued to improve the
already high standard of its internal operations, to maintain the quality of
its portfolio, and to exhibit an innovative approach to development banking.
In sum, it is regarded as one of the most efficient, well-organized and
innovative development finance companies with which the Bank is associated.
36.       The funds disbursed by KDFC during 1971-76 approximated to just less
than 3% of total fixed manufacturing investment undertaken in Korea during this
period. Despite this relatively modest contribution, in terms of volume, towards
the provision of industrial finance, KDFC has played an important qualitative
role in the improvement of the resource allocation and mobilization systems in
Korea. The maintenance of high appraisal standards has ensured that Bank funds
and other resources made available to KDFC have been allocated to projects that
were economically as well as financially viable. (Data on a representative
sample of KDFC's projects showed an average economic rate of return of 33%
and financial rate of return of 26%.) KDFC-supported projects have had a
major impact in generating additional employment and increasing value added
and exports with considerable balance of payments benefits. The projects
which have received KDFC's assistance are estimated to produce about $600
million per annum in exports. Projects exporting 50% or more of their output
accounted for 71% of loan approvals in 1976. KDFC-supported projects will
generate additional direct employment of about 26,000 when they are in full
operation. Also, substantial changes have taken place over the last few
years in the sectoral composition of its portfolio in response to the evolu-
tion and maturing of Korea's dynamic industrial sector. The concentration on
textiles, which accounted for nearly a third of KDFC's total lending up to
1970, has been sharply reduced as it became more highly involved in marine
transport, deep sea fishing, food processing and other light industry.
KDFC's operations have also shown a shift away from Seoul towards other areas
of the country in conformity with the Government's policy of dispersing
manufacturing capacity away from the metropolitan areas of Seoul and Busan.



- 10 -
In this connection, KDFC began in 1976 to participate with regional commercial
banks to encourage the growth of industry in the less developed areas of the
country. The objective is to channel foreign currency funds to small enter-
prises in backward areas and to help the participating commercial banks to
build up their appraisal and follow-up capability. About 8% of its foreign
currency loan approvals in 1976 were allocated to financing projects under
this program, including $5 million from the proceeds of the Fifth Bank loan
to KDFC for 18 projects under this scheme.
37.       KDFC has endeavored to improve the design of projects it finances
and provided its clients with useful managerial and technical assistance.
In 1974, it helped to establish jointly with the Korea Institute of Science
and Technology (KIST), the Korea Technology Advancement Corporation with the
objective of commercial exploitation of the technological processes developed
by KIST. KDFC has also made a valuable contribution towards the development
of the country's financial systems through its initiative in promoting and
establishing:
(a) in 1971, the Korea Investment Finance Corporation (KIFC),
a specialized financial institution designed to develop the
organized short-term money market and securities market; and
(b) in 1975, the Korea Development Leasing Corporation which
leases industrial machinery to small businesses which
cannot afford outright purchases and do not have the
collateral normally required to obtain financing for
such purposes.
Management and Organization
38.       KDFC's ownership is reasonably broad based and, aside from IFC
which owns 10.5% of its share capital, no single shareholder (of which there
were 389 on December 31, 1976) owns more than 4%. Its Board of Directors
comprises 13 members of whom five represent the ten foreign private shareholders
(comprising financial corporations and commercial banks in the United Kingdom,
the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan and the USA, who together hold about
24% of the total share capital), and IFC. The eight Korean directors are
leading members of the business and banking community. While the Board lays
down policy guidelines and has the ultimate authority for all investment
decisions, it has delegated authority to an Executive Committee of four Board
members (including the Chairman, the President, and one representative each
of Korean and foreign shareholders respectively) to approve individual loans
and investments up to $2.0 million. Since late 1976, its President has been
empowered to approve loans and investments of up to $300,000 under the
cooperative scheme operated with the regional commercial banks referred to in
para. 36 above.
39.       KDFC remains one of the best organized and managed DFCs with which
the Bank Group is associated. Mr. C.H. Kim, formerly Governor of the Bank of
Korea, continues, as KDFC's President, to give the company strong leadership.
The high quality of KDFC's staff is evident through all levels of the organiza-
tion. Up to 1972, the turnover of staff had been minimal. However, despite
KDFC's competitive employment conditions vis-a-vis other financial and banking



- 11 -
institutions, staff turnover increased in the last 2 years, when 13 profes-
sional staff members left KDFC. This turnover was mainly the result of the
demand for KDFC-trained staff by the Korean business community (including
some of KDFC's client companies). However, this attrition has had no discerni-
ble effect on operational efficiency partly on account of the generally high
quality of staff and partly because none of KDFC's key staff have left. KDFC's
professional staff increased from 62 to 71 in 1976, including 14 new recruits.
KDFC believes that the turnover of staff will decline in 1977 and has made satis-
factory plans for recruiting additional professional staff over the next few
years.
Operations and Resources
40.       Since it began its lending operations in 1968, KDFC has approved
financial assistance for the industrial, mining, agro-industrial, fishery
and transport sectors amounting to a total of W 106.4 billion. Direct lending
accounted for 95.6% of the total and the remainder was accounted for by equity
investments and convertible debentures. Cumulative loan approvals, as of
December 31, 1976, totalled W 100.9 billion for 325 projects. Foreign cur-
rency loans (254) amounting to $213 million accounted for 88.3% of KDFC's
total lending. KDFC's foreign currency lending increased from $17.4 million
in 1972 to $64.7 million in 1976 on an approval basis, which represents an
average annual growth of 39%. On a year-to-year basis, however, the growth
has not been regular; the level of approvals has been a direct function of re-
source availability. There was, for instance, a 12% decline in foreign cur-
rency approvals in 1974 as a result of the delay in effectiveness of the first
ADB loan. This decline was followed by a 79% increase in 1975 when KDFC's for-
eign exchange resources were replenished by both its first ADB loan and the
previous Bank loan (effective August 1975). In 1976, the growth in the volume
of foreign currency approvals was 51%, partly as a result of the greater avail-
ability of resources.
41.       Until 1976, KDFC had relied almost exclusively on the Bank and ADB
for its foreign currency requirements. Indirectly, KDFC had mobilized addi-
tional foreign currency resources amounting to about $34 million in 1975 and
1976 through its joint-financing operations with foreign financial institutions
and investors. Efforts to raise funds in foreign private capital markets were
unsuccessful until 1976, when KDFC arranged its first foreign commercial loan
of about $20 million from foreign shareholders and IFC. Considering the
difficulties inherent in this type of resource mobilization, this beginning
can be considered satisfactory.
42.       KDFC's aggregate approvals in domestic currency for the period
1968-76 amounted to W 12.3 billion ($25.6 million). Loans in domestic currency
accounted for 56% of this amount, while subscription to convertible debentures
and equity participations represented respectively 18% and 26%. KDFC normally
makes short- and medium-term domestic currency loans in conjunction with foreign
currency loans. It believes that the bulk of domestic currency lending should
be done by commercial banks, which because of the greater resources available
to them, are better equipped to handle such lending. Priority is therefore
given in KDFC's domestic currency operations to investment operations (i.e.,
convertible debentures and equity participations as distinct from straight
lending) through which it can achieve a more substantial developmental impact.
Investment operations which accounted for 40% of KDFC's total domestic currency



- 12 -
operations in 1974 increased to 76% in 1976. Nine new equity participations
have been approved in 1976 for a total of W 1 billion ($2.1 million) bringing
KDFC's total outstanding equity investment portfolio as of December 31, 1976
to W 3.3 billion in 21 companies.
43.       As of December 31, 1976, KDFC's total assets stood at W 87.8 billion
($181 million) having increased by 66% during the year. This unprecedented
asset growth reflected the delayed effect on disbursements of the rapid
increase in total approvals in 1975 and 1976. Total disbursements showed an
increase of 178% in 1976 over their 1975 level, which, after allowing for col-
lections, brought about a 60% increase in outstanding portfolio. This growth
of KDFC's portfolio was essentially on account of foreign currency loans which
have increased from 70% of total assets in 1973 to 81% in 1976. The growth
of the foreign currency loan portfolio was financed by rapid drawdowns on
KDFC's foreign currency resources. While total outstanding term debt
(inclusive of domestic currency borrowings) increased by 97% over the period
1975-76, KDFC's equity grew by 57%, from W 6.1 billion to W 9.6 billion. The
debt/equity ratio consequently increased from 6.1:1 to 7.7:1, well within the
present contractual limit of 8.5:1 agreed with the Bank. Part of the increase
in KDFC's equity came from a rights issue in late 1976 for cash of W 1.37
billion. The current ratio has decreased from 1.8 in 1974 to 1.5 in 1976
but still leaves KDFC with a comfortable liquidity position. The debt service
coverage has remained at the level of 1.3 times over the last two years which
is satisfactory.
44.       KDFC's portfolio is of exceptionally good quality.    No loan was in
arrears for a period of more than three months at year end-1975 and 1976.
Collection ratios over the last four years ranged from 98.2% to 99.4% reflecting
an exceptionally good performance. Provisions for doubtful accounts stood at
W 1.1 billion as of December 31, 1976, and together with free reserves,
accounted for 7.7% of total portfolio, which is more than adequate. The
exceptional soundness of KDFC's portfolio is attributable more to the quality
of its appraisal and follow-up work, to its ability to identify and remedy
problem projects at an early stage, and, more importantly, to the strength
of the Korean economy particularly in the last two years, rather than to an
overly conservative lending policy on KDFC's part.
45.       Although the Government does not formally regulate the level of
KDFC's interest rates, these are expected to be in line with those of other
financial and banking institutions in Korea. On the domestic currency side,
the interest rate now stands at 20% per annum. On the foreign currency
side, KDFC's standard interest rate is 10.75% per annum, with the sub-borrowers
carrying the foreign exchange risk. To date, the maximum term of sub-loans
has been 15 years, including three years of grace.
46.       KDFC's overall financial position remains sound and its earnings
performance continues to be satisfactory. Net income after taxes increased by
27% in 1976 to W 1.55 million; as of December 31, 1976, KDFC's net worth was
W 9.6 billion, or 37% more than at the end of 1975. KDFC has paid an annual
dividend of 20% (10% in cash, 10% in stocks) since 1969 except in 1973 when
it distributed a 15% cash dividend and 1976 when a 20% cash dividend was
declared.



- 13 -
Future Operations and Resource Requirements
47.       KDFC estimates that,over the two-year period starting mid-1977, its
total financial assistance (loans and investments) will reach W 79.2 billion
($163.3 million) on a commitment basis. Foreign currency loans are projected
to account for $147 million or 90% of total commitments. Approvals which had
increased by 51% in 1976, because of the expeditious processing of loan appli-
cations financed from the proceeds of the $20 million IFC syndicated loan, are
projected to grow by a moderate 9.5% in 1977 and 19% in 1978. The Fourth
Five-Year Plan projects an annual real growth of industrial investment of
about 8% over the period 1977-81. KDFC's disbursements over the same period
are forecast to increase at an average rate of just under 15% per annum.
Assuming a reduction in the rate of inflation to about 7% per annum, the real
growth in KDFC's disbursements would work out at approximately 8% per annum,
thus keeping pace with the projected real growth of industrial investment
over the Plan period. KDFC should, therefore, be in a position to maintain
roughly the share of its financing of industrial investment at the same level
as in the last five-year period, of approximately 3%. The achievement of
this larger volume of business would depend primarily on KDFC's capacity to
raise additional borrowings.
48.       KDFC's financial performance and position are expected to remain
satisfactory over the next five years. Profits after tax are projected to
increase from an expected W 2.1 billion in 1977 to W 4.4 billion in 1981, a
growth rate of approximately 20% per annum. Net income as a percentage of
both average equity and average total assets is expected to marginally decline
from the 1976 level owing to a slight erosion of the interest spread. In fact,
an increase is projected in gross income (from 10.9% of average total assets
in 1976 to 11.6% by 1981) which would, however, be more than offset by a rise
in KDFC's average interest expenses (from 6.5% to 7.7%). The projected
increase in financial charges reflects the expected proportionate reduction
in official funds (such as those from IBRD and ADB) and the increased share
of higher-cost foreign commercial borrowings. KDFC envisages continuing its
usual policy of declaring a 20% dividend (10% cash; 10% stock). KDFC's debt
service coverage is expected to remain at the satisfactory level of 1.2 to
1.3 through the projected period. The interest cover ratio would marginally
decline from 1.4 in 1976 to 1.3 by 1979 which would still be adequate. On
the whole, KDFC's profitability is expected to remain satisfactory.
49.       KDFC's total assets are projected to rise from W 87.8 billion at
end-1976 to W 260 billion by 1981, a rate of increase of about 25% per annum.
This will be financed by a corresponding 25% per annum rise in term liabili-
ties; equity growth, however, will be slightly lower (at about 23% per annum
on average over the same period) thus bringing the debt/equity ratio up from
7.7:1 in 1976 to 8.2:1 by 1981. Contrary to the growth of its portfolio and
borrowings, the increase in KDFC's equity (and therefore in the debt/equity
ratio) will not be uniform from year to year since it will partially be on
account of two large share issues for cash of W 3 billion and W 4 billion
respectively planned for 1978 and 1981.   In the years preceding these share



- 14 -
issues, the debt/equity ratio would reach 8.48:1 and 9.3:1 (in 1977 and 1980
respectively). The existing contractual limit of 8.5:1 might even be exceeded,
if a second commercial loan expected in early 1978 were to materialize ahead
of schedule. KDFC realizes the need to broaden its equity base as the best
means of easing this constraint. It feels, however, that the planned share
issues of W 3 billion and W 4 billion for 1978 and 1981 represent the maximum
that it can raise. Furthermore, KDFC takes the view that a more conservative
dividend policy in order to achieve a higher level of retained earnings and
stock dividends would be unacceptable to its shareholders and could jeopardize
the success of its future share issues. A relaxation of the present debt/
equity limitation from 8.5:1 to 10:1 has therefore been agreed upon to enable
KDFC to incur the additional borrowings required for financing its operations
over the next few years.
50.       KDFC's domestic currency commitments for the two-year period 1977-78
are estimated to amount to W 7.9 billion. At end-1976 domestic currency
resources available for commitment amounted to W 3.3 billion. KDFC expects to
raise a further W 3 billion through its 1978 share capital increase, and
W 5.9 billion through Won loan collections, disposition of equity investments
and internal cash generation. These additional domestic currency resources
should enable KDFC to cover projected commitments and at the same time maintain
a satisfactory level of liquidity.
51.       Uncommitted foreign currency resources amounted to $39.3 million as
of December 31, 1976, consisting of $7.1 million from the previous Bank loan
and $32.2 million from the latest ADB loan. This uncommitted balance is
expected to be fully utilized by the middle of 1977. Commitments over the
two-year period starting July 1, 1977 are estimated to reach $146 million.
In order to meet this level of commitments and maintain an adequate balance of
resources available for approvals, KDFC will need to borrow a total of $150
million. The proposed $70 million Bank loan would cover slightly less than
one half of KDFC's requirements with the balance to be met by another loan of
$50 million from ADB (expected in late 1978), and a foreign commercial loan
of about $30 million from its foreign shareholders to be raised with IFC's
assistance. This, together with an increase in its domestic currency
resources through additional share issues and, possibly, the issuance of
medium-term bonds and further efforts to arrange joint financing with both
foreign and local institutions for large projects,will contribute to the
achievement of KDFC's objective of reducing the proportion of official
funding to around two thirds of its overall resources by the early 1980s.
52.       Aside from the financing of direct imports of machinery and equip-
ment, YDFC would be authorized to use the proceeds of the proposed loan to
finance the foreign exchange component of domestically procured capital goods
estimated at 60% and that of local civil works estimated at 35%. Financing of
the foreign exchange component of local procurement and of civil works was
already allowed under the previous Bank loan to KDFC and accounted for about
6.5% of the total loan amount. This proportion is expected to increase only
slightly under the proposed loan.



- 15 -
53.       On the basis of KDFC's high appraisal standards and the proven
ability of its management and staff, it is proposed that the free limit be
increased from the level of $2 million (under the previous Bank loan) to
$2.5 million. With the proposed free limit, it is estimated that projects
accounting for about 15% of the total number of subloans and about 40% of the
total loan amount would still require Bank review prior to approval, which
would be adequate. As with the previous loan, there would be no aggregate
free limit. No ceiling on the size of individual subloans is necessary since
KDFC's Policy Statement provides for a statutory exposure limit in a single
enterprise of 25% of KDFC's net worth which represented about $5 million as
of December 31, 1976.
Objectives and Justification
54.       The continued growth of Korea's industrial sector is a crucial
element of its development strategy. KDFC, whose performance to date has been
highly satisfactory from both the developmental and institutional standpoints,
is an especially suitable vehicle for financing the development of the indus-
trial sector. While being an efficient intermediary to channel Bank funds to
viable projects, KDFC has made and will continue to make a significant contri-
bution toward improving the resource mobilization and allocation systems in
Korea. These include KDFC's initiative in establishing KIFC, its promotional
activities, the launching of a leasing company and its support of small- and
medium-scale industries in backward areas of the country through its joint
scheme with regional commercial banks. The Bank Group's association with KDFC
since the latter's inception in 1967 has been a productive and mutually bene-
ficial one. Through KDFC as an intermediary, Bank Group resources (totalling
$161.3 million, on a commitment basis and including the IFC syndicated loan)
have been efficiently allocated to some 215 projects which are economically as
well as financially viable, in the manufacturing, mining, agro-industrial,
tourism and transport sectors of the Korean economy. This association has
enabled the Bank Group to exert its influence in encouraging KDFC to sustain
and improve its operational standards as well as to enhance its developmental
contribution. It is expected that over the period of commitment of the pro-
posed loan, KDFC will achieve further improvements from both the institutional
and developmental points of view.
55.       Subloans approved so far under the previous Bank loans ranged in
size between $110,000 and $3.95 million/l, economic rates of return ranged
from 15% to 67%, and the weighted average economic rate of return on a large
sample of KDFC-financed projects was 33.4%. Subprojects to be financed under
the proposed loan, although not yet identified, are expected to yield similar
economic benefits. As with the previous Bank loan, a proportion of up to 10%
of the proposed loan is expected to be utilized by KDFC for financing small-
scale industries in backward areas with the regional commercial banks. As an
intermediary for allocating Bank funds to projects smaller than the Bank
could finance directly, KDFC's performance has been, and is expected to
remain very effective.
/1 With an average subloan size of $941,000.



- 16 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Korea Development
Finance Corporation, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of
Korea and the Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of a
resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are
referred to in paragraphs 49 and 53.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 1, 1977



-  26                                                                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~  
* Ca
M *  ; a   -.  a0 7;4                        aO 
so   W  W a                                                                                     a
hi~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~i
0 v 0f                                                      z
a   ice   s-S   CO   Ct-CON   -.  0   000  ~~~~~~0.   .C  0
6-.  ..S-.  0   r-a  ooea  -.  0a  r--.  or~~~~~~~~~W :.  a  500,  a  O              0
CS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e  a Ca) -  C-,
*  -a                                          x x-                       z                 t
W' al 
6- 6 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  ~  ~  -
-ec: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...:                                              a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m..W  e
.3.0 ~ ~ ~ ~ 10 o I  h                                                                     aS*a
a 620hi6          P    N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
56-a  a                                                                                       6~O  0  ) 
so   .  .01         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J~~ 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~  - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  



Page 2
Val-as otherwise ntotd. data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betmosn 1968 and 1970 and for Most Recent detleate betemen
1973 and i975.
as Japan bas been aselcted as an objective Country due to the stinlarity of the present Korean sOCnnaic atrocture to that of lapan in the
add-fiftles (with tile saea principle resource bass, i.e., * fficient, indtustrious, cebap labor and heay relianc       on Imported raw material.).
Morsoever, agriesitasa-, transport, and otharsectore of the econW have siailar charanteristic..          Koresaelan has a pattern of Industrial
deveiopw.st which is not very different from the one Japa     persued wIth great success in the slxtlee-
IC R]M1.        1960    L,1955-6o;       A   195o-55i     e-n RAtio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor foame;              Wage
and salary inoome of households;      &   1961;    IL Registered, not all practicing in thle Country;       I    1 962;
,I   Refer to households;     a   Water piped Inaide.
1970    /a   toveroment estimate is 38.0;      A   As percentage of exploy'ust;      &   Regioterd, not all practicing in the
country;     a   Water piped inside.
MST? ICER T EYOTXVA;     /a   1970-75;    a    19721    4, Ratio of population under 15 enw 65 and over to labor fore, age 14
and over;     4   Lakbor fbree age lb and overl     /a   19711    4L  Registered, net all practicing
in the country;     &g  1969-71 average;      A   Ten years old end over;    4), % of population, for
1976.
THALAND               1970     /a  1 964-661    &   Public schools, which include techoicel education at the poet-secondary level.
1970    ZS   Excludee 17 eastern provinces;          1965.67;     Li1965-70;       /d  FAiato of poputlatin under 15 and 65 and over
to labor force age 15 and overj      Le  15 yeare andoer exnludes unemployed;         IL  Registered onlyl
4i Disposable incose;        &  Including aaalatant urlese and aideiveas       &       1964-.66;  &  prerson  mix ymear
and over who tell the Ceonss takers th/at they cm rea or writs.
Rll, March lb., 1977
UINImTMlfS OF SOUiL INDICATORS
L..d Area (th.. 1_2)                                                                     P  uat    onpr nritpro            Population divided by soumher of practie-
Total    Total surface srea complisi,sg land sre   aod inland water,.                     in      ale nd Pn:aTe gradua1te suse,    trained" or "certified" curses,
Agric..  Most cecet estimate of agricultursi area used temporarily or                      end auxiliary percoso,1 with training or experienc..
-err   -tetv for crops, past-res   merhet t kitchen gardens or ts lie fallow.         Population per hospital bed - Popuolatiss divided by number of hospital
brdo available in public and private goseral and specinli.ed hsopita1
GNP per capito CusS) - GNp tot capita .atia,ates at Current Market priCee,                 end rehabilitation centere    excludes sursing homes and establihehnerts
calculated by sane conversion usthod as World BoAnk Atlas (1973-75 basis)                po utdaladpeeniecoc
1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                                              Pe   aiaeol         fclries (9      f ranrements) - Computed fr om     nergy
equivalent of net food sple       availabe to coutry per capita per
P.p.lation and vitalstt1     cc                                                            day; available suppies comprise dbmstic production, impoorta lese
pop.lation (nid-y-. million) - As of July first:     if inst  veilable,                    exports, and changes in stock; net supplies exlcelde antral feed, seeds,
uv-rg    of to   ns/-year etaos      1960, 1970 end 1975 date,                          quantities need in food processing and loss..c in distribution; re-
quireoents were estio,ted by PAO based on piqysiologica1 needs for
P.p.lolt-o density-on     unsaq.re ika - Mid-year pop.iution per square bile-              normal activity sod hea1lh considering esvirmocn-alt.   temperature,
tase  (110 h-ccareu  Of 'tol area                                                      body weights, age and sea distributions or populatio, a-d allowing
Pou dto   density _ poerf.c-e kos of attic, lend - Computed us abeve fer             10% for wmote at hs..sehold level.
agriculcu...l land only.                                                              Per capo    supplyof,protein (grac.pngday) - Protein conntent of per
capia nt spplyof  oodperday; net.supply.of fond is defined as
vocal aracintics                                                                           above; requiremente for all Osuntria     stablished by USth Economic
Crude birch etst p-r thousdaeas .oci                iebrhspr.~d -                          R ...anroh Services prl-ide for a edaimuai allowance of 60 grmam of total
Of iLd-yea   population; t.n-year ari,h-oti     vras     ed..dig in 196C and             pomnp-a ony, u-n 20 gram        of aniamal and Pulse l,roueonw-on  wanorso 
1971, and five-you   average endig is 1275 for cot r-ent etme.                   -     gra    should b  animal protein; thmoe st'Andrds are lower tUa. thoae
Crude death rat    e             vrc         suldetaprtosn               fmd               of 75 go-ac  of total protein and 23 graur   of animal protein as an vaer-
tLI.      ~     ~      -Ana        e~      e'thousand,o  md             age for the   ,orld, proposed by FAO In the Third World Fond Survey.
year population; tan-year an ith-etic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and            Percpt       rti     upyfo        nmladple-Poenspl                     ffu
five-year averge ending is 1975lot mast ton ~5        tima_tea.                         deCe rmaial.n 'e                   nd
nfsmt mortality ateL (Ithou) - AnnusI deaths 0 ninfants cmaen          year af                                                   rugoso par dy.
age  et  bouaadlive births.~~.                                                               ~U     .n. -eaonldeaths per thousand In age group
Lif   n   onacy at birth (7rc)   A-Avrage tmmber of yeats of life ream.ing                  byas      to children in this age group; suggested as am Indicator
at birth ; ....lly fiwe-year aversge.Coeding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for                 of malnutrition.
developing O touirieO
Grose to produtio   r.at  - Aver.ag  naber of live daughters. a   onas  s ill            Education
bear in her n-r1s reproductive period if ah. e.pe-ieoes. pre..ent age-                Ata        nrollmnt rtio -     riar ochel - EnrI'aimnt of all. ages as
specific, fertility tare; usually liv.-y.ar averages ending in 1960,pretg                            fpinysio-g             pouain; loocudes childr-en aged
1970 and 1971t for developing_conries.                                                  6-11 years but adjusted for differ-ent lengths of primary education;
population gotoeh rate (t) - total - Compound .-..sI growth races of mid-                  for; costrira  with universal education, usa-Ilment may eassd 100%
year population for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-75.sie                                          nonp     il  are below or above the official school age.
Fopulationrotrae()-ubn               - Computed like growth rats of total               AdJutedsenrollum'ent ratio - eaccndm7u scobol - Computed aa above; sac-
ppato;dfentdfitio            neo     ohafrm      myafctcqaa                           ondar-y education requires at least four years of apprvovd primary
bility.t"eintin of data                    resamongfec countries                     instruction; prsvides general, vocational or teacher training inatruc-
Ur,np   -     _atIon (.   of total) - Ratiu) of urban to total population; dif-            tions for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence course, are
feet T InTtio niof uban areas may affect comparability of dt                          generally excluded.
among countrieas.                                                                      Yerar of schooling roidqd..fIrstoand second levels) - Total years of
Age    ~jp    rvent -. I    Ch'ldyon (0-IL years). w-oking-age (15-64c yearn),            schooling;   tscnaylvl voa,tional Instruction cay be pat-tInly
ad retired (SWyero ad o .er) en Dercenteges of mid-year poDulstton.                   o'r completely    xldd,
en,~l~d.ncv ratio - Ratic of population under 05 snd 65 and over to                  Voainl nolen            9o       seo  xas) - Vocationai institutinse Intlude
th a of ags1    troh C.technical, Industrialo                                                                    othr     rWoam    which operate independentlY
Ecnmc  eednyrto- lai              fpnl~v        ne       ad6     n    vror as departments of secundary Institutions.
F    dnependectolCLI.i.                          ude    5  nd65an      oe           Adult literacy rata ()-Literate adults (able to read and write) -as
to the labor force 60 age group of 15-6Cc years.
Family planning     ccprscuuavethu                -Cuuatv           r                      percentage nor total adult population aged 15 yearn and ove,r.
eopreobirth-con-trol devices under auspices of national fanily                 Buii
planning program since inception.
Fam.ilp pluig-ues(            fnrtdwnn             ecnae        fmridPereons per room (urbn) - A-arage numher of pecooa per taos in
anne  ofchid-herin  ag  (1511.yeas) who use birth-control de-                  occu.pied con ventional dweilings in urban areas; dwellings siclude
vices to 011 married swoon inc   - van ge grup                                           Permanent struct,-e    and unoccupIed parts.
Occupied dWUeli    witho,ut plped water (9)     -Ocupied conventional
20  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~   ~   ~    ~   ~  ~   ~~~~welnsi               ran'  end rn-a  aes without inside or outaide piped
labor force     thusnd) - Economically a-tive Persons, including                       water facilities as percentage of all cocupied dwellings.
a#i6efcrc_ihd>iS      iioIed hu~t excluding housevrivas, Students,    tcAces t                    e   letricity (9ofall derlinas perconention oal dwellings
definitions in various countries are not comparable,                                     with electrlciy    nlvngqatraspcetottldwlns
labor foroe in agiuture      9   - Agricultural labor foroe (in farming,                   in urban and rural areas.
for.estry, bunting end fishing) as percentage of total labor force.                    Rua          ftelnsgconnecad to electricity (%)-Coutdsabv             fr
U_pYd(            f   ao    we  - Unemployed are usually defined as personsruadelng                          oly
who are able and willin gt    tabs a Job, out of a job on a given day,Cos                     ptn
remained cut of a Job, and 3eehing ,erk for a specified minimeum                       co___ti_
period not exceeding nov wemb; may not be comparable betwee      coon-                 Radio eeves (Cer thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio bred-
tries dun to different definitions of unemployed and source of data,                     casts to gmenral public per thousand of population; excludes unli-
-.9.,-V:L y-nt  ffi..   a-pl. .-,.Y"   _.P.1-7                     ceneed receivers in countries and isn years shan registration of radio
e.g.r,n emlomntsoffice.   saito,sml              vy,cmusr           nn                    sets was in effect; data for recent years may not be comparable sla-e
moat countries abolished licensing.
Income diatrlbution  -PecntaLge of private ioose (both in cas h and bind)                Passenger cars (pea thou pop) - Passenger oars comporise motor cars samt-
r...eived by richest 5%, richest 20T, poorest 20OT, and pooresc hO% of                   Ing less than eight persons; excludes ambhulancse, hea.... a nd mill-
houveholda.                                                                               tary vehicles.
Own i                                      ElattrIci!P Nw"         4er cap)  ~~~~~~~~~- Annual co"usuetion of Industrial, con-
Distributio.n Of lac   wesi         ecetgso-ado;d              by elh                         1tl     ullc and Private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita;
ittlt  n  rreat          Pare.tg. of lendoedowners.h                              generally ubased on produ: tion data, without allowanne for losses in
iest 10% and PC   of land mmers.                                  ~~~~~~grids hot ailosing for impoortsansd exports of electricity.
Hosa1th and Nutritioc                                                                     Newsprit (kg/yr per can) - Per capita annual cnnaumption In kilograms
Population perphy    Ico   - Population divided by number of practicing                     etaed fron domest-ic prodmation plum net l.qc-sofnwpit
ohyslci.ns ucalified from a ndics1 ochocl at university level.



ANNSEX I
page 3
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEeT
Actual                            Est.    Projected            Growth Rates (2)
1965     1970     1972      1973      1974     1975       1976      1982      1965-73  1973-75  1976-82  1982-86
A. National Accounts
(Million US$ at 1975 prices)
1. GDP                         6,953.9  11,714.7  13,900.8  16,233.7  17,655.4  19,089.2  21,941.7  36,846.9     11.2     8.4      9.0      9.8
2. Cains from TOT                142.5    668.9   1,145.3   1,517.0    543.6     -        1,027.0   2,547.8        -        -       -        -
3. Gross Do-estic Income       7,096.4  12,384.6  15,046.1  17,750.7  18,199.0  19,089.2  22,968.7  39,394.7     12.1      3.7     9.4     10.3
4.  Imports (goods and NFS)      988.9   4,254.3  5,301.4   7,203.0   7,438.2  7,463.8    9,236.7  22,583.3      28.2      1.8    16.1     15.9
5. Experts volune                389.4   1,849.0  3,125.4   5,021.1  4,745.2   5,679.1    8,158.3  20,305.5      37.4      6.4    16.4     16.0
6. Exports (adjusted for TOT)    531.9   2,417.9  4,270.6   6,538.1   5,288.8  5,679,1    9,185.3  22,853.3      36.4    -7.0     16.4     16.0
7. Resource Cap (adjusted for
TOT)                       457.0   1,736.4   1,030.8    664.9   2,149.4   1,728.1      51.4    -270.0       ..
8. Total consumption           6,809.2  10,655.5  12,606.7  14,264.7  15,181.0  15,381.0  16,439.1  27,778.4      9.7      3.8     9.1      8.6
9. Investment                    926.7   3,308.9  3,134.1   4,327.5   5,167.4  5,120.7    5,977.0  11,351.3      21.2      8.8     11.3    14.0
10. Domestic saviogs (adjusted
for TOT)                   287.2   1,729.1  2,439.4   3,486.0   3,018.0  3,708.2    6,529.6   11,616.3     36.7      3.1     10.1     14.2
11. GDP at current US0          2,996.5  8,238.9   9,835.8  12,457.8  16,863.1  19,089.2  25,276.7  60,819.5      19.5    24.0     15.7     18.4
S. Sector Output
(Share of GDP at 1975 prices)
1. Agriculture, Forestry  and
Fisheries                  0.462    0.330     0.292     0.264    0.256     0.249      0.236     0.152
2. Mining and Manufacturing      0.137    0.023     0.230     0.257    0.276     0.291      0.327     0.342
3. Other                         0.401    0.467     0.478     0.479    0.467     0.460      0.437     0.506
C. Prices (1975-100)
1. Export Price Index (US$)       66.4     66.0      66.4      78.9    108.0     100.0      111.8     149.8
2.  Inport Price lndex (US$)      48.6     48.5      48.6      60.6     96.9     100.0       99.3     133.1
3. Terms of Trade Index          136.6     136.1    136.6     130.2     111.5    100.0      112.6     112.5
4. GDP Deflator                   43.1     70.3      70.8      76.7     95.5     100.0      115.2     165.1
5. Average Exchange Rate         266.2    310.4     394.0     398.6    405.9     485.0      485.0     485.0
D. Selected Indicators             1965-72    1973-75     1976-82            E.                                     1965    1970    1975   1982
1.  ICOR /a                         2.05       4.42        3.53             1.   Labor force (million)              8.9    10.2   12.3    15.3
2. Import Elasticity                2.52 /b    0.21        1.79             2.   Unemploynent (I of E. 1)           7.9     4.9    4.1     3.4
3. Average Domestic Savings Rate    0.12       0 19        0.27             3.   Employment (million)               8.2     9.7    I1.8   14.8
4. Marginal Domiestic Savings
Rate                          0.27       0.17        0.31                             (Z shares)
5.  Imports/GDP                     0.32       0.42        0.53             3.1  Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries  58.6    50.5    45.9   37.8
6. Investment/CDP                   0.20       0.28        0.29             3.2  Mining, Manufacturing             10.4    14.3    19.1   23.7
7.  Resource Gap/GDP                0.13       0.09        0.00             3.3  Other                             31.0    35.2    35.0   38.5
F. Public Finance (2 of GDP)         1965    1970     1972     1973     1974    1975     1982
1. Current Revenue                  13.2    17.5     18.2     13.9     15.3    17.4     25.5
1.1 Tax Revenue                      7.3    14.3     12.3     11.6     13.3    15.1     17.3
2. Current Expenditure               9.0     11.5    11.9      9.6     10.5    11.1     18.6
2.1 Defense Expenditures             3.7     4.0      4.5      3.7     4.3      4.8      6.5
3. Government Savings                4.2     6.0      6.3      4.3     4.8      6.3      6.9
4. Capital Expenditures              2.7     5.8      6.2      3.6     4.4      5.5      5.0
Ja Calculated on a nn-year la.g.
/b Calculated for 1965-73.                                                                                                March 23, 1977



ANNEX I
v,age 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(S million at current prices)
Actual                Estimated                       Projected
1972     1973      1974     1975      1976        1978          1980         1982          1986
Su.aary Balance of Payments
Exports (incl. NFS)               2,075     3,962    5,125    5,679      9,121     13,827        20,879       30,417        66,942
IMports (incl. NFS)               2,577    4,368     7,209    7,464     9,172      13,981       20,747        30,058        65,958
Resource balance (X-M)             -502     -406    -2.084   -1.785        -51       -155           132          359           984
Intereat (net) /s                  -138     -166     -229      -399      -380        -583          -719         -807        -1,053
Direct investment income /b          -2         1       -8       -5       -24         -22           -52          -90          -165
Other factor income (net)           101        72       74        76       -49          35          -12          -80          -100
Current transfers (net)              170      190      224      226        230        225           250           250          250
Balance on current accounts        -371     -309    -2,023   -1,887       -274       -500         -400          -368           -84
Private direct investment /c         74       137      104       53         70        220          260           300           385
Official capital grants              87        61       64       -          -          -            -              -            -
Public M6LT Inane /d
Disbursements                     735       757    1,155    1,687      1,662      2,178         2,295        2,301         4,433
- Repayments                        289       334      391      368        590        888         1,055        1,387         2,102
Net disbursementn                   446       423      764    1.319      1,072      1,290         1.240          914         2,331
Other M6LT loans
Disbursements                      49        71      174       85         98        150           150           150          163
- Repayments                          10       15       23       28         34        120           188           196          213
Net dinbursements                    39        56      151       57         64         30           -38          -46           -50
Capital transactions n.e.i. /f     -116       -28      955 Lf   951 th     -82
Change in foreign exchange
reaerves (- - increase)          -159     -340       -15     -493    -1,398
Actual             Est.
Crant and Loan Commitments                                                                                              1972   1973    1974   1975   1976
Debt and debt services
Offlcial grants and grant-like        87       61       64        -         -
Public debt out. 6 disbursed    2,691  3,199  3,982   5,227  6,299
Public M61.T loans                                                                     (end of period)
18RD                               73       150       85      382.5      372         Interest on public debt         120    150    201     290    325
LDA                                26        20       -        -          -          Repayments on public debt       289    334    391     368    590
ADB                                68        46       89       101.5     114         Total public debt service       409    484     592    658    915
Governments                       431       311      446      250        731         Other debt service (net)         23     33      54     60     71
Suppliers                         142       295      516      343   )                Total debt service (net)        432    517     646    718    986
Private banks                      73       240      737      193   )  1,981
Bonds                              -         -        19       -    )              Burden on export earnings (Z)
Public loans n.e.i. /t             -         11       80       34
Total public M6LT loans              813    1.073    1,972     1,304     3,198 /k      Public debt service            19.7    12.2   11.6   11.6   10.5
Total debt service             20.8    13.1  12.6    12.6   11.3
Actual debt outatandion on December 31. 1975          TDS + Direct Invest. Inc.      20.7    13.1  12.4    12.6   11.2
Eiternal Debt                             Disbursed only               Z               Average terms on public debt
Wl-d Bank                                   403.5                   71.7               Iot. as    prior year DO6D      5.3     5.6    6.3    7.6    6.2
Other multilateral                          196.7                    3.8               Aort.    as 0 prior year
Governuents                               1,838.0                   35.2                  DO&D                        12.9    12.4   12.2    9.2   ((.3
Suppliers                                 1,595.4                   30.5             IBRD debt out. 6 disbursed       94.7   139.8 223.8   403.5  535.0
Private bonds                             1,004.2                   19.2              '   as 0 poblic debt 060         3.5     4.4   5.6     7.7    8.5
Bonds                                        18.8                    0.4                  as 7 public debt service     1.7     2.5    3. 3   4.9    4.3
Public debts n.e.i. Li                       77.8                    1.4
Total public M6LT debt /d                 5,227.1                  100.0             IDA debt out 6 disbursed         47.1    58.5  78.3    92.7   96.1
Other MalT debts                            470.8                                       as 0 public debt OhD           1.8     1.8    2.0    1.8    1.5
Total esternal MALT debt (dish. only)     5,697.9                                       as 0 public debt service       0.1     0.1   0.1     0.1    0.1
Short-term debt (disb. only)              2,167.0 /1
/a Interest payments on short-, medium- and long-term debt less interest earnings.
/b Net dividends receipts and payments.
Lc Excludes interoffice accounts of foreign banks.
/d Includes all public guaranteed loans of maturities one year and above, except IMF.
/e Private nonguaranteed loans, including IFC loans.
/f Includes IMF credits, banking system borrowing and short-term capital inflows.
_a Includes $580 million borrowed by the banking system.
/h Includes short-term capital inflows of $760 million.
Li Other private financial institutions.
/1  Includes short-term trade credits (5902 million), refinance ($829 million), other short-term debt ($436 million).
/k Preliminary official data (includes nonguaranteed private loans.
March 22, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                            US$ Million
Credit                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Number  Year       Borrower             Purpose             Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Twelve loans and credits fully disbursed                   228.8    72.1
600    1969   ADC                   Irrigation             45.0             0.2
151    1969   Republic of Korea     Education I                    14.8     0.4
669    1970   Republic of Korea     Railways III           40.0             0.4
769    1971   Republic of Korea     Highways I             54.5             1.2
795    1972   ADC                   Irrigation             33.0             6.6
863    1972   Republic of Korea     Railways IV            40.0             1.7
905    1973   KDFC                  Dev. Fin. Co.          40.0             0.4
906 &  1973   Republic of Korea     Education II           23.0    20.0    33.6
394
917    1973   Republic of Korea     Ports I                80.0            50.1
942    1973   Republic of Korea     Seeds Production        7.0             5.2
953    1974   Republic of Korea     Tourism                25.0            15.5
956    1974   Republic of Korea     Highways II            47.0             1.3
994    1974   AFDC                  Agriculture            13.0            11.9
1070    1975   Republic of Korea     Secondary Cities       15.0            11.8
1095    1975   KDB                   Dev. Fin. Co.          60.0             4.7
1096    1975   Republic of Korea     Third Education III    22.5            21.4
1101    1975   Republic of Korea     Railway V             100.0            38.1
1145    1975   KDFC                  Dev. Fin. Co.          55.0            10.7
1175    1975   IfIB                  Dev. Fin. Co.          30.0            13.6
1193    1976   Republic of Korea     Second Integrated      15.0            13.8
Dairy Development
1203    1976   Republic of Korea     Highway III           90.0             82.3
1216 &  1976   Republic of Korea     Rural Infra-           60.0            37.7
1218-T                                 structure
1319    1976   ADC                   Irrigation             29.0            29.0
1328    1976   Republic of Korea     Agricultural Credit    20.0            20.0
1338    1976   KDB                   Dev. Finance Co.       82.5            82.5
1364 /a 1977   ADC                   Irrigation             95.0            95.0
Total                                            1,350.3   106.9   589.1
of which has been repaid                         35.4      0.7
Total now outstanding                            1,314.9   106.2
Amount sold                   2.9
of which has been repaid    1.0                    1.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   1,313.0   106.2
(prior to exchange adjustment)
Total undisbursed                                 578.1     11.0   589.1
/a Effective as of April 22, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31. 1977)
Fiscal                                                    Amount in US$ Million
Year   Obligor               Type of Business              Loan   Equity  Total
1968   KDFC                  Development Financing           -      0.7    0.7
1969   lionan Silk Co.       Textiles                       1.4     0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper           Pulp and paper                 4.5     0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development      -      0.7    0.7
1974   KDFC                  Development Financing           -      0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development      -      0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products           16.0     1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development     5.0     0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.         Synthetic Fibers               6.9     2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.    Tourism                        2.7     0.7    3.4
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development      -      0.4    0.4
1976   Chongju Paper
Mfg. Co.              Paper                          5.0     0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. Zinc                           15.0     4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                  Development Financing         17.8      -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products           10.0     0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products                    0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                  Development Financing                  0.3    0.3
Total gross commitment                              84.3    13.4   97.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                              27.5    0.9    28.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                   56.8    12.5   69.3
Total undisbursed                                   11.9     2.0   13.9
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 795     Yong San Gang Irrigation Project; US$33.0 Million Loan
Credit No. 283   and US$15.0 Million Credit of February 2, 1972; Effective
Date: September 15, 1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977
The project, located in one of the most drought-prone areas of
Korea, provides four storage dams, canal systems and land development to
irrigate 33,700 ha. Works are expected to be completed in mid-1978, about
18 months behind schedule. The project was delayed initially by modifications
in the design of the dams and later when rapid inflation outpaced the alloca-
tion of local funds. The dams have now been completed and good progress is
being made on other works. The project cost is estimated at about US$151 mil-
lion compared to US$88.6 million at appraisal, but because of increases in
rice and barley prices, the economic rate of return of 14% is close to the
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 942      Seeds Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of November 16, 1973;
Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: December
31, 1978
The project consists of: (a) the installation of five field crop
seed processing and storage facilities; (b) farm machinery for seed pro-
duction; (c) procurement of seasonal seed inventories through the operation
of a revolving fund; (d) seed testing laboratories and equipment; (e) crop
research (financed in part by USAID); (f) feasibility studies for irriga-
tion and area development; and (g) technical assistance. The necessary
legislative and administrative action for revising the Seed Law and estab-
lishing an "Office for Seed Production and Distribution" has been taken.
Project implementation although one year behind the appraisal schedule, is
proceeding satisfactorily. Project cost (OSPD/NAPIO components) have increased
from the appraisal estimates of about US$14.0 million to more than US$20.0 mil-
lion. Disbursement has been somewhat slower than expected at appraisal but
is expected to substantially improve in FY77/78.
Loan No. 994      Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
US$13.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term funds to the Agriculture and
Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC) for onlending to subborrowers in the
private sector for the purpose of integrating on farm production of fruits and
/L These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10 pages
vegetables with modern hygienic processing facilities, using land that is
presently idle or underutilized. The vegetables and fruits involved are
mainly asparagus, shiitake (oak mushroom), spinach, mushroom, strawberry and
peach. The project is to be implemented over a four-year period, and AFDC
lending of project funds to subborrowers is being channelled through the
National Agriculture Cooperative Federation. The project became effective in
March 1975 at a time when Korea's export markets were adversely affected by
the worldwide economic recession. With the global economic upturn in 1976
and the consequent improvement in foreign demand for Korea's processed food,
investor demand for modernization and expansion of agricultural processing
facilities improved. Thus, significant progress in project implementation
has been achieved since November 1975. Project lending for processing facil-
ities, mushroom growing houses, and asparagus cultivation was initiated in
recent months, and loan demand is expected to pick up momentum in the coming
year. On-farm development of oak mushrooms, which has been implemented on
schedule since the outset of the project, continues to progress satisfac-
torily.   However, in view of the absence of lending in 1975 for processing
facilities, which accounts for nearly 70% of total project costs, implemen-
tation of the project as a whole will be further delayed.
Loan No. 1193     Second Integrated Dairy Development Project;
US$15.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1976: Effective Date:
November 11, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) the establishment of about 450
new dairy farms; (b) the continuation of the development begun as part of
the First Integrated Dairy Beef Project on about 400 dairy farms; (c) the
expansion of existing processing plants, the diversification of their
production, the establishment of two milk collection centers and fifty small
milk cooling units and the construction of a frozen milk products plant at
Yeongnam; and (d) the expansion of technical services for both farm develop-
ment and milk processing.
Loan No. 1216     Rural Infrastructure Project; US$60.0 Million Loan of which
Loan No. 1218T    US$40.0 Million Third Window; Effective Date: June 4, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project includes about 62 minor irrigation, 29 upland reclama-
tion, 11,000 fuelwood, 900 roads and bridges, 4,200 water supply, and 2,700
rural electrification subprojects. Technical assistance is provided for
upland reclamation and improvements to hydrologic services. Special evalua-
tion studies are also included. Project implementation is on schedule,
costs and disbursements are all close to appraisal estimates. The monitoring
and reporting systems have also been established and are functioning well.
Disbursements are at present over 40% of the total loan.
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; US$29.0 Million
Loan of July 17, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The aim of the project is to increase agricultural production and
farm incomes on about 12,665 ha, and to benefit directly some 10,400 farm



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10 pages
families.  The project consists of:   (a) the construction of dams and canals
to irrigate 8,315 ha; (b) the conversion of 2,045 ha of cultivated upland to
irrigate paddy fields; (c) land consolidation on 4,600 ha of irrigated and
non-irrigated land; (d) the development of 495 ha for irrigation of upland
crops and 550 ha for orchards; (e) upland reclamation and bench-terracing of
1,200 ha of presently uncultivated land; (f) the improvement of about 80 km
of river channels; (g) the construction of about 150 km of village access
roads; (h) aerial photography, surveys and mapping; and (i) provision for
technical assistance, procurement of vehicles and a feasibility study for
a second-stage project of the Miho Watershed.
Loan No. 1328     Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$20.0 Million Loan
of September 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides medium- and long-term loans through the National
Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF) to about 7,900 farmers for (a) the
establishment of about 2,100 ha of apple orchards; (b) the construction and
equipping of improved silkworm rearing houses including improvement of exist-
ing mulberry plantings; (c) sprinkler irrigation to producing orchards of 2 ha
or more; (d) the construction and equipping of greenhouses for vegetable
production; and (e) the construction of on-farm fruit storage facilities.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II, US$95.0 Million
Loan of January 25, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The principal features of the project are: (a) construction of an
estuary dam across the mouth of the Yong San Gang, consisting of a 4,500 m
long embankment, a 240 m wide concrete sluice and a navigation lock; (b) con-
struction of a 4,000 m long sea dike; (c) construction of 16 pumping stations
to serve a total area of 20,700 ha, including the land to be reclaimed and
developed; (d) construction of about 315 km of main and secondary canals to
serve an area of about 15,200 ha; (e) reclamation of about 5,500 ha of tidal
land through land leveling and construction of canals, drains and farm roads;
(f) land development comprising land consolidation on 3,200 ha of existing
paddy, conversion of 3,250 ha of upland to irrigated paddy, development of
1,050 ha of upland for irrigation, and tertiary canals and drains on 4,400 ha
of existing paddy land; (g) construction in the project area of office build-
ings, warehouses, access roads and temporary pier required for the construc-
tion of the estuary dam; and (h) provision of the services of consultants to
assist in project implementation and preparation of feasibility studies
for *future development stages of the Yong San Gang Basin.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 905     Fourth KDFC Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of June 13,
1973; Effective Date: September 10, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
The project is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10 pages
Loan No. 1095     Korea Development Bank Project; US$60.0 Million Loan
of March 31, 1975; Effective Date: June 17, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project provided funds to KDB to make subloans to finance direct
imports for subprojects principally in the manufacturing and transportation
sectors. Almost the full amount has already been committed to finance 31 sub-
projects, ahead of the time estimated at appraisal. Disbursements now amount
to over 75% of the loan amount, also ahead of the original estimate. KDB's
performance in using the loan has been highly satisfactory.
Loan No. 1145     Fifth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
US$55.0 Million Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective Date:
September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The loan covers about half the KDFC's foreign exchange
requirements through the end of 1977. The proceeds are used to finance
direct imports of machinery and equipment, and the foreign exchange component
of domestically produced capital goods and of civil works. About 80% of the
loan proceeds have already been disbursed.
Loan No. 1175     Medium Industry Bank (MIB); US$30.0 Million Loan of
November 26, 1975; Effective Date: January 28, 1976;
Closing Date: Miarch 31, 1980
The project provides funds to MIB to make subloans to small-
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises over two years. The project
is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are at present over 50%
of the total loan.
Loan No. 1338     Second Korea Development Bank Project; US$82.5 Million
Loan, of which US$7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial
Leasing Company, of November 16, 1976; Effective Date:
March 23, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make
subloans and investments to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects
during the period 1977-78; the remainder of the loan, $7.5 million, would be
relent by KDB to its wholly-owned subsidiary KILC, which would use these
funds to acquire machinery, equipment, facilities and other property to be
leased to investment enterprises during the same period.
Education Sector
Loan No. 906      Second Education Project; US$23.0 Million Loan and
Credit No. 394    US$20.0 million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project provides equipment for, and extensions to, 75 educa-
tional institutions at secondary, post secondary and university levels. It
also includes preinvestment studies on health and management education.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10 pages
The project execution is now about 12 months behind schedule. The principal
cause of delay has been slow equipment procurement owing to staff shortages in
the Office of Supply (OSROK). The Government is taking steps to overcome the
source of delay. All equipment lists have been approved; tenders have been
made for US$28 million, contracts have been awarded for US$11 million. Total
project cost remains at $75.8 million, about 8% above the appraisal estimates.
Disbursements are expected to reach US$20 million by the end of FY77. Cove-
nant requirements under the Development Credit Agreement are largely met.
The project is now expected to be completed by mid-1978, which requires an
extension of the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; US$22.5 Million Loan of March 31,
1975; Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The project includes assistance for extensions and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes under the Office
of Labor Affairs (OLA). After 15 months of execution, project implementation
is about 3 months behind schedule but considerable progress has been made.
Site layouts and sketch plans have been approved for 11 institutions and one
is already under construction. All sites have been acquired. Remaining
sketch plans have been prepared and construction will begin at ten institutions
in 1977. Progress in equipment procurement is satisfactory. No cost overrun
is anticipated at this time. The chief problem, about which the Bank has
requested Government action, is temporary lack of counterpart funds which may
delay project implementation. Both MOE and OLA project units are functioning
satisfactorily.  Disbursements are expected to be made on schedule.
Tourism Sector
Loan No. 953     Kyongju Tourism Project; US$25.0 Million Loan of
January 4. 1974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project forms part of the first phase of the planned development
of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multipurpose dam;
an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of the
water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city of
Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and telecom-
munication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or realign-
ment of about 57 km of roads, infrastructure including storm water drainage,
environmental sanitation, community facilities, and a golf course; a school
for training hotel personnel; and a feasibility study for the development of



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10 pages
tourism on Cheju Island. Final design for almost all project components is
complete and several contracts have been awarded. Execution of the works,
however, is progressing slower than originally scheduled mainly due to a
rather slow start, and delay in water exploration. It appears likely, there-
fore, that project completion will have to be extended by one year to the end
of 1978. Considerable efforts are being made by the newly established Kyongju
Tourism Agency to promote hotel investors' interest and an agreement with a
major international hotel company for construction of the first hotel is now
in the final stage of negotiations. About 30% of the loan has been disbursed
and disbursements are expected to accelerate in the months ahead.
Regional Development
Loan No. 1070     Secondary Cities Regional Project; US$15.0 Million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Implementation of the Secondary Cities Regional Project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Construction on seven, out of nine subprojects, is
progressing on schedule. A contract for the eighth subproject will be awarded
shortly. Three housing sites, a city market and two access roads will be
completed by mid-1977.   Consultants appointed to provide technical assistance
to Gwangju Regional Development Unit have started work. The project is
nearly a year behind appraisal schedule, mainly due to delays in fulfilling
conditions of effectiveness and establishing the Gwangju Regional Development
Unit. Total project costs are in line with the appraisal estimate of
$25.0 million.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 769      First Highway Project; US$54.5 Million Loan of June 29,
1971; Effective Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The construction of approximately 370 km of national highways
between Jeonju and Busan was satisfactorily completed in December 1973,
at a final cost of about 5% above the appraisal estimate. Feasibility
studies and detailed engineering have been completed for 1,400 km and 900 km
of national highways, respectively. A study of road maintenance and the
establishment of a pilot maintenance organization formed the basis of the
creation of a country-wide Highway Maintenance Organization which is being
carried out under the Second Highway Project. The Closing Date has been
extended by two years to permit completion of procurement of highway mainte-
nance equipment, and staff training.
Loan No. 863      Fourth Railway Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
November 22, 1972; Effective Date: February 26, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The main elements of the project are: electrification of lines
in the Seoul suburban area; purchase of electric railcars and locomotives;
the completion of electrification of 350 km of line running from Seoul to



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10 pages
the northeastern part of Korea; track and bridge renewal; provision of yard
facilities; acquisition of passenger and freight cars; and improvement of
facilities for the maintenance and repair of motive power and rolling stock.
No major problems have been encountered; most of the loan proceeds have been
committed, and over 95% already disbursed. The Closing Date has been extended
by a year to December 31, 1977 to allow time for the completion of procurement.
Loan No. 917     Ports Project; US$80.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30. 1979
Six civil works contracts and three equipment supply contracts
are already let and work is proceeding satisfactorily except at Mukho which
is slightly behind schedule. A contract has also been let for the grain
handling facility but no work has started. Three civil works and one equip-
ment contract are out for bids. This will complete all contracting require-
ments for the project. Overall the project is about 50% completed and at
this stage only the grain handling facility appears likely to be delayed
(about six months) beyond the May 1978 target date for completion. Total
cost is currently estimated to be US$160 million with a foreign exchange com-
ponent of US$107 million. The Loan provides US$80 million foreign exchange
and the overrun is being financed by the Saudi Fund for Development (SFD).
Tht Korea Maritime and Port Authority (KMPA) is being adequately staffed, but
there has been a delay in adopting operational and financial procedures
recommeqded by consultants appointed to advise KiPA on these matters.
Loan No. 956      Second Highway Project; US$47.0 Million Loan of January 25,
1974; Effective Date: April 4, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The works, consisting of construction, chiefly on new alignments,
of about 130 km of highways and paving, chiefly on existing alignments, of a
further 634 km of national highways were completed on schedule and the high-
ways opened to traffic in October 1975. The cost, in US dollar equivalent,
exceeded the estimate by about 5%. Feasibility studies for future projects
of about 1,000 km of roads were started in August 1975, followed by detailed
engineering which is expected to be completed in mid-1977. Delay occurred
in setting up a new nationwide highway maintenance organization but the
organization has now been established in accordance with decrees published
in June 1975. All the maintenance offices have been constructed and staffed
and equipment procured under the Loan. The Government has been requested to
increase the budgetary allocation to enable an adequate program of periodic
maintenance to be carried out. By the end of February 1977, disbursements
were above 97%.
Loan No. 1101    Fifth Railway Project; US$100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by helping in: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and other



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10 pages
equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and the strengthen-
ing of its financial position. The main components of the Project are: an
increase in station and line capacity and improvements in signalling; acquisi-
tion of rolling stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts and repair
facilities; track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening; completion
of electrification of 71 km of industrial lines; and other miscellaneous
items. Contracts, financed by the loan, have been signed for procurement of
passenger and freight cars, wheel sets, spares for locomotives, rail, bridge
girders and track maintenance machinery, amounting to about US$75 million
equivalent. About 60% of the loan proceeds have already been disbursed. In
connection with this loan, the Government undertook to formulate a financial
recovery plan for KNR and to discuss it with the Bank. A mission which
visited Korea in October 1976 discussed this matter with the authorities
concerned.
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; US$90.0 Million Loan of
February 3, 1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four national
highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (b) paving and
improvement chiefly on present alignments, of nine national highways totalling
about 600 km, including supervision of the work by consultants; and (c) feasi-
bility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of national and provincial
roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. Contracts for construction and
paving have been awarded and work is progressing on schedule. The Government
is currently drafting the terms of reference for feasibility studies.
Program Assistance
Loan No. 1219     Second Program Loan; US$75.0 Million Loan of March 3, 1976;
Effective Date: June 9, 1976; Closing Date: May 1, 1977
The principal aim of the loan is to help meet the foreign exchange
requirements for the import into the Republic of Korea, by the private
sector, of essential capital and intermediate goods. The loan has already
been completely disbursed.



ANNEX III
KOREA
SIXTH KDFC LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    The project was prepared through
consultations during regular
supervision of previous loans to
KDFC.
(b) Agency which prepared the
project:                        KDFC
(c) Date of the first Bank mission
to consider the project:        September 1976
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   January 27, 1977
(e)  Negotiations completed:           May 26, 1977
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    September 30, 1977
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
No specific action is considered necessary.
Section III - Special Conditions
No special conditions are incorporated in the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements.






r oU tto          hwonhJma p  ottIc )o  Eui + 1 7AeonQbun3 
125  26~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IP 25
Imply endorsemenlt or acceptance by the  Sc  Any sog9 \ e r  W onu , 
@Xi7 4rX                                     37._
PEA            Sh      m         (/\ 
Ye//ow   Se                                             KOREASe
I125'  126'                                       mcheog~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
35.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'
f 91A,>9 ~TRANSPORTAT ION                NETWORK
mandpot(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Piar od
AnRo doys under c tr tlon
34-  C;l?   \NN  A   I       +<  Airports
JoI                       tj  Pcrts
P             P~~~~~~~~~~ivers
._  _  PrOvIncal1 boundaJries
-- InteratIonalboundareonj
o   20  *0  60  80  00  20  140160
Boobsoong~~~~~~~~~ 2 E      0 N   0     6     00
-     o~~~Ss p                           M li Es
125-             126-             127-             I 28-            1 297



