Report No. PID5818
Project Name                     Poland-Emergency Flood Recovery Project (+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Infrastructure and Other Water
Supply & Sanitation
Project ID                       PLPE53796
Borrower                         Republic of Poland
Implementing Agencies            Office of the Minister for Flood Recovery
Ministry of Environment al Protection,
Natural Resources and Forestry
Contacts                         Mr. Jerzy Widzyk
Minister for Flood Recovery
Chancellery of the Prime Minister
1/3 Aleje Ujazdowskie
Warsaw, Poland
tel: (48 22) 694 75 49 / 628 38 73
fax: (48 22) 694 70 99
Date this PID Prepared           November 19, 1997
Date Initial PID Prepared        October 27, 1997
Appraisal Date                   October 27 - November 10, 1997
Projected Board Date             December  18, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.      As a result of torrential rains during July 1997 in Poland--the
worst experienced in perhaps 200 years--areas in six voivodships in
the Odra River basin were flooded over 25t of their territory.
Damage was extensive, and estimates by the Government of Poland
(GoP) of the cost of damage to urban and rural infrastructure and
hydrotechnical infrastructures (e.g., dikes) are being finalized.
The affected area comprises a large proportion of Poland's total
population and total GNP, and it is also a significant agricultural
center, producing a large proportion of Poland's meat, grains,
fruits and vegetables. Rapid recovery of the Odra Basin region is
therefore critical for Poland's continued economic growth.
2.      The floods exposed the strengths and the weaknesses of the
present flood management and hazard reduction systems in Poland.
The response in the region and in the voivodships and gminas
demonstrated the capacity of local authorities for leadership and
imaginative crisis management despite the breakdown of communication
and information systems. But the great stress on the flood
management system caused by this extreme flood also exposed gaps and
weaknesses in the hydrotechnical infrastructure and technical and
management systems; gaps which are long recognized in Poland but
have not been acted upon due to budget constraints and institutional



rigidities despite many extensive planning and technical studies and
assessments.
3.      The overall objective of   Poland's National Reconstruction and
Modernization Program (NRMP) is to reduce the detrimental health
effect from the damaged facilities and improve the level of
services, thereby resuming a normal level of economic activity. The
NRMP is a strategic Government program which provides for initial
investments to be undertaken in emergency rehabilitation and
reconstruction work along with the establishment of a foundation for
medium- and long-term operations. The first part of the NRMP
comprises immediate measures including, inter alia, the systematic
restoration of the local drinking water supply, wastewater, and
disposal facilities.
4.      Other important needs arising from the flood are being met
through other Bank-supported projects related to the support of
small- and medium-sized enterprises, and the restoration and
development of national roads and bridges.
Objectives
5.      The proposed project is of an emergency nature, aiming to
restore basic infrastructure in communities and rural areas affected
by the flood, to make urgent repairs to the flood management system,
and to improve the policy framework and institutional capacity for
better flood management and mitigation, concentrating on the most
heavily affected region of Poland. The most urgent actions should
be taken before the expected spring floods.
6.      The two principal objectives of the proposed project are to
assist the Government of Poland in:
a) restoring basic infrastructure in municipalities and rural areas
affected by the flood by repairing structures and facilities of
economic and social importance, and by restoring lifeline facilities
and services for currently displaced people; and
b) reducing vulnerability and risk of future floods.
Description
7.      In August 1997, the GoP requested the Bank to develop, on an
urgent basis, a project to provide financing and technical
assistance for flood recovery and protection. Based on discussions
with the Ministries of Finance, Environment, Agriculture and with
the Minister for Flood Recovery, the Bank and the GoP have agreed in
general terms to a number of key points relating to the loan amount;
GoP co-funding of the project; allocation of funds; implementing
arrangements and flow of funds, including provision for retroactive
financing of project expenditures; and main project components and
priority actions.
8.      The project will encompass three main components:
- 2-



a) Municipal and Rural Infrastructure, which includes technical
assistance, design, and investments to restore infrastructure at the
municipal and gmina level.
b) Flood Management and Hazard Reduction, which includes technical
assistance, design, and urgent investments to upgrade hydrotechnical
infrastructure; modernize flood management systems, and improve
forecasting and planning.
c) Project Administration and Technical Assistance to establish a
project coordination unit (PCU) to help implement, inter alia,
procurement and disbursement activities associated with the project.
Financing
9.      The Bank will make available a loan of up to US$200 million
equivalent; the total project cost is US$498.2 million. The GoP and
direct beneficiaries would co-fund the project. Parallel financing
is provided by the European Investment bank (EIB), European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and EU PHARE. Cofinancing of
the Project is made available by USAID, UNDP and other donors
through bilateral agreements and trust funds.    The GoP, represented
by the Ministry of Finance, would be the borrower of the Bank Loan.
Implementation
10.     Procurement, disbursement, supervision and related
administrative services essential for smooth project implementation
would be assisted by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to be
established in Wroclaw. Given the emergency nature of the project,
it is envisaged that funds would flow as grants from the central
government to municipal agencies and other beneficiaries.
11.     For the project component dealing with municipal and rural
infrastructure, the main implementing agencies will be the
municipalities and gminas, with the assistance of the PCU. For the
flood management and risk reduction component, implementation will
be handled by the Ministry of Environment, including its
institutional branches and agencies (e.g., Institute of Meteorology
and Water Management, Regional Boards of Water Management, Regional
Water Management Authorities), the Institute for Geodesy and
Cartography (IGiK), and the PCU.
Sustainability
12.     The borrower and participating local governments are strongly
commitment to the objectives and scope of the project. Key policy
and institutional reforms to be supported by the project include the
development of institutional capacity for flood management and
support for the local government management of infrastructure
investments.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
13.     After some initial weakness in the early 1990s, project
- 3 -



experience in Poland has been good, both at the investment level and
as related to institutional strengthening. This overall positive
experience has been described in the OED's Country Assistance Review
(Poland) of April 14, 1997. More specifically, the Bielsko-Biala
water and wastewater project, currently under implementation, has
shown substantial progress and compliance with conditions specified
in the performance agreement with the municipality, and is
satisfactorily meeting its development objectives.
Poverty Category
14.     While the poverty impact of this project may not be directly
measurable, the project will minimize the adverse effect on living
conditions experienced by the currently displaced people who have
been affected by this major natural disaster. The project will have
a significant positive impact in restoring normal living conditions
to a large proportion of the population.
Program Objective Categories
15.     Although this is an emergency project designed to address
immediate infrastructure rehabilitation and flood management needs,
the project would help foster environmentally sustainable
development.
Project Benefits
16.     Immediate benefits are the restoration of rural and municipal
services and infrastructure serving the millions of inhabitants of
the Odra River basin. Project investments would enable basic or
normal levels of operation of water supply, wastewater treatment,
waste management, and transportation systems, district heating and
public buildings in the target region, and thereby improve health,
safety and environmental conditions for the affected population.
First phase investments to restore damaged hydrotechnical
infrastructure (e.g., dikes) will limit or prevent possible
significant additional losses. Economic recovery of the affected
region and incremental tax revenues supporting the GoP budget would
result from restoration of normal industrial and agricultural activity.
17.     The flood management component of the project will contribute
significant improvements to Poland's system for flood preparedness
and response for its two largest river basins, the Odra and the
Vistula. This component will include investments and technical
assistance to modernize the hydrological and meteorological
monitoring system, update mapping and modeling of the project river
basin areas using advanced GIS, modernize forecasting and modeling
capacity, and improve public awareness of flood risk and hazards.
18.     Major public benefits can also be expected from the project,
including strengthening the capacity of a newly formed government to
respond rapidly to priority needs of its citizens;
participating in the process of restoring dysfunctional community
services to pre-flood normality; and providing employment in the
- 4 -



construction industry and hydromechanical equipment industry.
Project Risks
19.     There are two main risks to the successful implementation of
projects of this type. First is the possible use of funds for sub-
optimal expenditures. This risk is being addressed through the use
of carefully established sub-project selection criteria agreed
between the GoP and the Bank. The second risk is a delay in project
implementation. This risk is being reduced by Poland's and the
Bank's joint effort to adopt straightforward solutions to project
design, flow of funds, and procurement methods, and by the
establishment of a PCU before loan effectiveness. The creation of
PCUs has proven effective in managing emergency programs.
Contact point:           Piotr Wilczynski, Task Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433 USA
tel: (202) 473-2513
fax: (202) 522-11 64
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 12, 1997.
- 5 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
The project would allow for repairs and modernization of destroyed
and damaged municipal and rural infrastructure. Therefore, no new
structures are envisaged. Under the water management and flood
prevention component, dike repairs and strengthening are foreseen
(the Project does not include any investments for dams). These
operations do not require environmental permits or clearances since
they address hydrotechnical structures already in place.
Nevertheless, environmental factors will be further assessed at the
detailed design stage for each structure that may have had
environmental flaws in its pre-existing form, and appropriate
mitigation measures incorporated as part of the modernization of
flood structures. Because this project involves the rehabilitation
of existing hydrotechnical structures (e.g., dikes), the operations
envisioned will not adversely change the quality or quantity of
water flows to other riparian states, nor will they be adversely
affected by other riparians' possible water use. Therefore, in
accordance with the Bank's policy for Projects on International
Waterways, other riparian states need not be notified of the
project. Nevertheless, the Government of Poland is keeping other
riparian states informed through the Odra River Committee, which
includes the governments of Poland, Czech Republic, Germany, and the
EU and serves to coordinate development of the Odra river basin
flood management system. No potential detrimental impacts on
riparian states are envisaged.
-6-



