Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 17200 POL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 200 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOR AN
EMERGENCY FLOOD RECOVERY PROJECT
DECEMBER 1, 1997
Infrastructure Sector
Poland Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 6 November 1997)
Currency Unit = Polish Zloty New (PLN)
3.4 PLN = US$1.0
US$ 1.0 = PLN 3.4
FISCAL YEAR: POLAND
January 1 - December 31
FISCAL YEAR: WORLD BANK
1 July - 30 June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         -      Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD        -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB         -      European Investment Bank
ECU          -     European Currency Unit
EU-PHARE  -        European Union assistance program for Poland
GIS         -      Geographical Information System
GoP         -      Government of Poland
IBRD         -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IGiK        -      Institute of Geodesy and Cartography
IMGW        -      Institute for Meteorology and Water Management
MoF         -      Ministry of Finance
MoE          -     Ministry of Environment
MFR         -      Minister for Flood Recovery
NRMP         -     National Reconstruction and Modernization Program
NGO          -     Non-Governmental Organizations
ODGW        -      Regional Water Management Authority
PCU          -     Project Coordination Unit
RZGW        -      Regional Board of Water Management
SME         -      Small and Medium Enterprises
UNDP        -      United Nations Development Programme
USAID        -     U.S. Agency for International Development
USTDA        -     U.S. Trade and Development Agency
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Country Director: Basil Kavalsky, ECCPL
Sector Director: Ricardo A. Halperin ECSIN
Task Team Leader: Piotr Wilczynski, ECSRE



-3-
Poland
Emergency Flood Recovery Project
Project Appraisal Document
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects



-4-
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
H. Readiness for Implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Cost-Benefit or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary: not applicable
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance



Poland
Emergency Flood Recovery Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Poland Country Unit
Date: November, 26 1997                             Task Team Leader: Piotr Wilczynski, ECSRE
Country Manager: Basil Kavalsky, ECCPL       Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: PL-PE-53796  Sector: Infrastructure     Program Objective Category: n/a
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan         Programnof Targeted Intervention:   []Yes  [x] No
Project Financing Data              [ x] Loan       [ ] Credit     [  Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 200
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency    [x] Single currency, specify USD
Grace period (years): 5          [    Standard Variable  [   Fixed           [x]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: .75%
Service charge: n/a
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local              Foreign          Total
Government                                                 124.2                0.0            124.2
Co-financiers                                              139.7               34.4            174.1
IBRD                                                        99.3              106.7            200.0
IDA                                                                             0.0              0.0
Other (specify)                                                                                  0.0
Total         357.2              141.1            498.2
Borrower: Republic of Poland
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Finance; Office of the Minister of Flood Recovery
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):  FY98      FY99       FY00       FY01
Annual     43.5       81.7        56.5       18.
Cumulative     43.5      125.2      181.7      200.
Project Inplementation Period: 36 months from 1 January 1998
Expected Effectiveness Date: 15 January 1998
Expected Closing Date: 30 June 2001



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The proposed project is of an emergency nature, aiming to restore basic infrastructure in communities
and rural areas affected by the flood, to make urgent repairs to the flood management system, and to
improve the policy framework and institutional capacity for better flood management and mitigation,
concentrating on the most heavily affected region of Poland. The most urgent actions should be taken
before the expected spring floods.
The two principal objectives of the proposed project are to assist the Govermnent of Poland in:
a) restoring basic infrastructure in municipalities and rural areas affected by the flood by
repairing structures and facilities of economic and social importance, and by restoring
lifeline facilities and services for currently displaced people; and
b) reducing vulnerability and risk of future floods.
Key performance irdicators for participating gminas, municipalities and voivodships1 are timely repair
or replacement of critical infrastructure to ensure public health and safety in accordance with the
priorities defined by local and national authorities. Performance indicators for national government
and the Odra and Vistula Basin voivodships are repair of hydrotechnical infrastructures and
introduction of an improved flood management system that will limit the damages caused by future
floods.
B: Strategic Context
I. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16484 - POL        Date of latest CAS discussion: 14 April 1997
The project supports the CAS goal to sustain private sector growth, especially in the area of increased
private sector participation in infrastructure development, by engaging local vendors, contractors and
technical service providers to implement infrastructure restoration. The project also supports the CAS
goals for environmental and social sustainability of reforms by repairing environmental infrastructure
damages from the flood, improving living conditions and restoring basic infrastructure necessary for
economic activity.
The project is not listed in the CAS as a priority operation for GoP as it responds to a national
emergency that occurred after the last CAS discussion. However, the GoP has indicated that the
project is a priority operation, and has asked the Bank for financial and technical support to deal with
the flood emergency.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(a) Strategic Setting
Flood Damages. As a result of extreme rain during July 1997, Poland was affected by a devastating
flood, the worst experienced in the past 200 years. Areas in seven voivodships in the upper and middle
Odra River basin and upper Vistula River basin were flooded over 25% of their territory. Estimating
the material damage resulting from the floods is difficult and sensitive to methods employed. Initial
estimates by agencies of the Government of Poland ranged from 5 billion PLN to more than 20 billion
PLN, with the most reliable and accepted estimate placed at 10 billion PLN (approxirnately US$3
billion). A summary breakdown of physical damnages is presented in Table 1, below.
I   gmina is a community or settlement; voivodship is comparable to county or province



-7-
TABLE 1: ESTIMATED FLOOD DAMAGES INSELECTED VoIVODSHIPS INPOLAND
No. OF    LENGTH OF   VOIVODSHIP  POPULATION
VOIVODSHIP        FLOODED      BUILDINGS      DAMAGED   POPULATION   (% OF TOTAL
AREA (ha)     FLOODED       DIKES (i)       (1,00)   -INP      D
Katowice            21 958         5 407          9 693         3 933            10
Opole              133 794         13 500        20500          1 027             3
Wroclaw             67 442          4 037        78 882         1 137             3
Legnica             25 624          1 280         5 233           523             1
ZielonaGora         47500           6080          3 171           673             2
Jelenia Gora        14 000          1 790        15 000           524             1
Walbrzych           27 000          4 460           700           740             2
Bielsko             10 524          5881         58850            917             2
Krakow              10 034          2 029        20 630         1 240             3
Kielce              24 041           992          7 847         1 136             3
Nowy Sacz            5 955          4 163        33 950           730             2
Krosno               7 020           134             --           506             1
Tamow               22 994          1 703        24 700           692             2
Rzeszow              3 365         2 175         60 000           745             2
Przemysl             4 020           146          2 600           414             1
Tamobrze            13 267          1 952         2 121           609             2
TOTAL              438 538        55 729        343 877        15 546            40
Source: Mission estimates.
The flood damaged private houses, public buildings (e.g., schools, hospitals, housing), roads and
bridges, hydrotechnical structures (e.g., dikes), railroads, natural gas distribution lines,
telecommunication systems, and energy transmission systems. The flood also destroyed crops and
created financial losses to agricultural and non-agricultural enterprises related to damage and
unemployment. The Bank's Emergency Flood Recovery Project focuses on only a part of the damage
caused by the flood: municipal buildings, roads, bridges, hydrotechnical structures, etc., in six
voivodships on the Odra river; and flood prevention/management system elements for the Odra and
Vistula rivers.
Flood Management System. The flood of July 1997 exposed both the strengths and the weaknesses of
the present flood management and hazard reduction system in Poland. The response in the region and
in the voivodships and gminas proved the capacity of local authorities for leadership and imaginative
crisis management despite the breakdown of communication and information systems. But the great
stress on the flood management system caused by this extreme flood also exposed gaps and weaknesses
in the hydrotechnical infrastructure and technical and management systems, long recognized in Poland
but deferred by budget constraints and institutional rigidities despite many extensive planning and
technical studies and assessments.



-8-
(b) Government and International Donor Response
Government of Polandr In response to the flood disaster the GoP prepared and adopted a strategic
program entitled "The National Reconstruction and Modernization Program." Under the program,
central, provincial, and local governments have responded swiftly and continue to provide assistance to
people, households, and institutions who have suffered damage, and to restore normal living and
working conditions. The program also contains medium and longer term actions designed to modernize
and rebuild flood prevention works, technical infrastructure, and public facilities. At the national level
a new Minister for Flood Recovery has been appointed to coordinate all flood related activities.
Similarly provincial governments established flood assistance offices and immediately appointed
necessary staff to assess all damage from the flood and to coordinate assistance to the affected
communities.
The National Reconstruction and Modernization Program (NRMP), developed in consultation with the
voivodships and local governments in the affected regions, is composed of three parts:
Part I--is an immediate program of actions to be completed by September 30, 1997, involving
the removal of the direct consequences of the flood, the elimination of dangers, and the
assurance of the first vital assistance to victims. Actions included a one-time assistance
paymnent of 3,000 PLN for every family victimized; immediate food assistance; assistance for
handicapped persons; employee benefits; repair grants to designated gminas of 100,000,000
PLN; restoration of water, electricity, and natural gas supplies; restoration of road and rail
passability; restoration of communication and waste management services; monitoring health
quality and providing immediate care; providing assistance for farms; and other actions.
Part II-- includes a set of medium-range projects, to be completed by March 31, 1998,
regarding assistance to agriculture, repair of housing stock and public facilities, and basic
repairs and overhaul of infrastructure installations. Actions include rebuilding ruined flood
embankments; dredging river channels; repairing hydrotechnical installations and reservoirs;
reconstructing public warning systems and rescue services; continued monitoring of water
supply and food systems; inspecting damaged municipal buildings (e.g., health care facilities)
and equipment and preparing for reconstruction; repairing waste and sewage infrastructure;
rebuilding housing stock and accompanying public infrastructure; rebuilding transportation
infrastructure; restoring communications systems; taking steps to restore agricultural
production; and other actions.
Part I1- is the long-term program (to be completed by the end of 2001) containing tasks that
involve the reconstruction, development, and modernization of the regions affected by the flood,
especially in the area of regulating water relations, hydrotechnical installations, public facilities
and installations, communications, transportation, and the implementation of the most
advanced available early warning systems against natural disasters.
The Bank project is designed to support elements of Part II and Part III of Poland's NRMP. The GoP
has formed an Interagency Task Force to supervise and accelerate the pace of project preparation. The
Task Force is headed by the Minister for Flood Recovery, and includes a Deputy Minister of
Environment, and a Deputy Minister of Finance.
International Donors and Co-financiers. Following the July 1997 floods, many European and
American agencies responded swiftly to emergency needs by reallocating funds in their respective bi-
lateral programs. The EU-PHARE program has re-allocated 64.6 million ECU for flood assistance.
The first phase of this assistance was an initial allocation, by September 1997, of a100,000 ECU grant



-9-
to each of 133 gminas for immediate disbursement for infrastructure repair, equipment, and other goods
and services. The second phase, to be contracted by gminas in ten voivodships by July 1998, consists
of a 33 million ECU grant program for the reconstruction and repair of roads, schools, municipal
buildings, and related infrastructure, 5 million ECU for small and medium enterprises; and 12 million
ECU for environmental projects related to hydrotechnical problems (e.g., dike repair). The EU-PHARE
program also has provisions for study tours, improvements to the national hazard warning system,
computer modeling, and related activities.
USAID has re-allocated US$3.9 million to create a Flood Response Program. This program includes
funds for housing and related repair, municipal financing planning (i.e., helping gminas to evaluate
financial flows and capital investments), support to the Polish Association of Home Builders to assist in
the rebuilding of private homes, loan guarantees for small and medium enterprises, land use and
employment recovery plans, energy efficiency audits, and related activities.
In addition, many of the bi-lateral donors contacted to date (including USTDA, the Netherlands,
Sweden, Austria) have indicated that, with specific definition of future tasks, they could support the
Bank's program in the medium and longer term. It is anticipated that bi-lateral donors' support to fund
certain elements of the Emergency Flood Recovery Project, especially as regards technical assistance,
capacity building, and provision of equipment and supplies, will materialize shortly.
Non-grant co-financing for this project will be provided by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and
the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). The EIB has offered to the
Govermment of Poland credit for up to 300 million ECU for flood related damages; 100 million ECU of
this total would be used to co-finance sub-components in this Bank project. The EBRD has been
working with the municipality of Wroclaw to design a project to repair flood-damaged infrastructure;
US$ 26 million of this loan would co-finance sub-projects in this Bank project (see Annex 3).
The governments of Poland, Czech Republic, Germany, and the EU have established an international
Commission to develop the Odra river basin flood management system. Poland's representative on the
Commission is the Bank's contact person for this project at the Ministry of Environment, allowing for
quick information flow between the two efforts and ensuring that duplication is avoided and external
financial sources are focused on the most urgent priority actions.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project is of an emergency nature, aiming to restore basic infrastructure in communities
and rural areas affected by the flood, to make urgent repairs to the flood management system that must
be in place before the expected 1998 spring floods, and to improve the policy framework and
institutional capacity for better water management and flood mitigation.
The rationale for geographic and technical focus is based on strategic choices to assist the most
extensively damaged region of Poland to restore essential infrastructure and to mitigate future flooding
in the two largest river basins -- the Upper and Middle Odra and the Upper Vistula.



-10-
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Poland
Emergency Flood Recovery Project
Cost                   Bank
(Incl.    Percentage Financing Percentage
Contingencies)
Categor  (USS million)   of Total    (US$    of Bank
y                              million)  Financing
Comeonent
A. Municipal and Rural Infrastructure  physical    267.7       54%          114.7   57%
B. Flood Management and Hazard
Reduction
1. Basin flood protection planning     other     19.4         4%           17.7   9%
2. Monitoring, forecasting & warning  physical   71.0        14%           54.6   27%
3. Investment in flood protection   physical    126.3        25%            0.0   0%
infrastructure
4. Flood hazard reduction           physical     10.9         2%           10.1   5%
Subtotal                                          227.5        46%           82.5   41%
C. Project Implementation Support     proj mgt     3.0          1%            2.8   1%
Total Prolect                                     498.2        100%         200.0  100%
*  Municipal and Rural Infrastructure: TA, design and investments to restore infrastructure at the
municipal and gmina level
*  Flood Management and Hazard Reduction: TA, design and urgent investments to upgrade
hydrotechnical infrastructure; modernize flood management system, and improve forecasting
* Project Administration and Technical Assistance: PCU, procurement and disbursement.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
* support implementation of the river basin approach for better water supply, flood and environment
management
* develop institutional capacity for flood management
* support decentralization and sound local government management of infrastructure investments
3. Benef ts and target population:
hmmediate benefits are the restoration of rural and municipal services and infrastructure serving the
millions of inhabitants of the Odra River basin. Project investments would enable basic or normal
levels of operation of water supply, wastewater treatment, waste management, and transportation
systems, district heating and public buildings in the target region, and thereby improve health, safety
and environmental conditions for the affected population. First phase investments to restore damaged
hydrotecminical infrastructure (e.g., dikes) will limit or prevent possible significant additional losses.
Economic recovery of the affected region and incremental tax revenues supporting the GoP budget
would result from restoration of normal industrial and agricultural activity.
The flood management component of the project will contribute significant improvements to Poland's
system for flood preparedness and response for its two largest river basins, the Odra and the Vistula.
This component will include investments and technical assistance to modernize the hydrological and
meteorological monitoring system, update mapping and modeling of the project river basin areas using
advanced GIS, modernize forecasting and modeling capacity, and improve public awareness of flood
risk and hazards.
Major public benefits can also be expected from the project, including the following:
strengthening the capacity of a newly formed government to respond rapidly to priority needs of its
citizens;



*  participating in the process of restoring dysfunctional community services to pre-flood normality;
and
* providing employment m the construction industry and hydrornechanical equipment industry.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 1 January 1998 -31 December 2000
Adntnistrative Arrangements: The Office of the Minister of Flood Recovery (MFR) at the national
level has overall responsibility for project implementation, based on specific investment needs identified
during project preparation. Other participating implementing agencies and organizations for the two
technical components are:
* Municipal and Rural Infrastructure Component: voivodship, municipal and gmina govermnents
* Flood Management and Hazard Reduction Component: Ministries of Environment, Agriculture
and Interior; RZGW, IMGW, and ODGW2; and voivodship governmnents.
The organization chart presented in Table 2 below summarizes the implementation arrangements. A
detailed description of the implementing arrangements for the project, components and sub-components
is provided in the Project Implementation Plan.
Table 2
POLAND EMERGENCY FLOOD RECOVERY PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
POLISH GOVERNMENT
STEERING COMMITTEE
Min. Flood Recovery--Chrm.
Mn. of Environment
Min. of Agriculture
PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
---  - -Implementors of Comp. B
l                ~~~~~Director & Staff----------
Implementors of Comp. A                                                     IMGW
RZGW
Gniinas and Municipal Govrns.                                                 ODGW
in the 6 identified Voivodships                                      Prov. Amelioration Depts.
Provincial governors
2   RZGW is the Regional Board of Water Management; IMGW is the Institute for Meteorology and Water
Management; ODGW is the Regional Water Management Authority



-12-
To ensure timely and efficient project implementation, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be
established to assist MFR in funds disbursement and monitoring expenditures. The PCU team will
have overall project responsibility for:
*  establishing client eligibility for funding for projects identified by gminas, municipalities and
voivodships;
*  defining contract performance specifications, disbursement and control procedures and necessary
forms;
* maintaining information on flood damage, recovery efforts and costs;
*  monitoring and supervision of emergency repair programs;
*  supervising disbursement and procurement of goods and services required for the project;
* maintaining project accounts and records;
*  coordinating information on project procedures and implementation at the local and regional levels
and with donors;
*  making payments to implementing agencies.
Implementation of the agreed portfolio of projects will be the responsibility of gminas, municipalities
and implementing agencies. The PCU will identify project implementation capacity at the gmina and
municipality level. For those gminas that have adequate implementation capacity (e.g., a gmina or
municipality department for investment), the PCU will perform a supervision and monitoring function.
For small gminas lacking project implementation capacity, the PCU will identify experts to assist in
implementation. All implementation will follow Polish and Bank procedures.
Allocation offunds. Approximately 53% of the project budget is dedicated to the infrastructure
restoration component in the voivodships of Katowice, Legnica, Opole, Walbrzych, Wroclaw, and
Zielona Gora, about 46% for flood management primarily in the Odra and Upper Vistula river basins,
and about 1% for project management costs.
Customs Duties and Taxes. The World Bank funds cannot be used to finance local taxes (such as
customs duties, sales tax, income tax, etc.). The import tax due on any World Bank-financed goods
would be paid by the Govermment, or paid by the relevant beneficiary.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and AuditingArrangenents. The PCU would be responsible for
keeping all project records and accounts. Adequate accounting and financial record practices will be
established within the PCU as part of project preparation. For the purposes of this project, a Special
Account may be established under the control of the MFR for managing Bank funds.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. Supervision would be carried out by the Bank's Task
Team, which would review first phase investments prior to their financing and provide a "no objection"
review. Audits of investments would be carried out by the PCU, supported by the Bank's Task Team.
The Bank would monitor the development of any proposed subsequent lending operations for
completion of flood management and prevention investments.
Role of Co-financiers: Parallel financing for technical assistance, design work and feasibility studies
would likely stem from bilateral sources directly (such as USAID, EU-PHARE) and not from Bank-
administered trust funds. EIB and EBRD co-financing would be parallel through their respective
project arrangements and coordinated with the PCU.



-13-
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project 7iming: To process the project as a normal lending operation was rejected due to the need to
make funds available for urgent repairs and infrastructure investments as soon as possible, to improve
Iiving conditions and mitigate insofar as possible damages from future flood seasons. Reallocation of
resources from another operation was considered, but was found to be inadequate for the
municipal/rural infrastructure and flood management investments needed. Funds for small-medium
enterprise assistance and repairs to the national highways have been reallocated from existing
operations (Roads II Project, Housing Project).
Instiutional/FinancialArrangements: Establishment of new regional or national flood control
centers was rejected in favor of technical assistance to rationalize and unify existing capabilities.
Direct lending by the Bank to voivodships and municipalities is not an option because of the extent of
the emergency. Direct project management and implemnentation by a national government ministry was
rejected in favor of a PCU reporting to the Minister for Flood Recovery due to the small size of the
Minister's staff and the desire, by the GoP, local officials and the Bank, to decentralize project
irnplementation to the maximum extent possible.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                   Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Assistance to SMEs
National Transportation Repairs    Roads II
Other develoRment agencies
EIB                                Poland Flood
Reconstruction Project
EBRD                               Flood Reconstruction
Project for Wroclaw
EU                                 Flood Damage
Reconstruction
Programme
USAID
_  Flood Response Program  I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from the Bank's experience. Bank-wide experience has shown that reconstruction of
damnaged infrastructure alone is imperative but insufficient, and that measures are needed to reduce the
risk of similar future disasters and to safeguard people at risk. A second lesson is that, while quick
response to disaster is important, it is equally important to identify underlying problems and detennine
how to resolve them in ways that result in long-term sustainable solutions. In several Bank projects
sustainability of infrastructure investments was questioned because of the projects failure to address
long-term mitigation measures. In regard to recurrent flooding, the 1993 Bank Water Resources Policy
Paper encourages the use of fiscal incentives, control of land use and management practices, and other



-14-
non-structural measures to lessen vulnerability rather than solely investing in the "structural" works
(dikes, reservoirs, floodplain storage areas such as polders). It has been widely recognized, e.g., that the
benefits of long-term disaster management versus the costs of repeated short-term post-disaster
reconstruction should be taken into account dunng any emergency operation. Additionally, previous
Bank-supported provincial and municipal operations have indicated that the more successful activities
have: a) covered a large number of affected communities; b) involved highly competent local
consultants and executing units; c) had access to funds that could be shifted among competing local
communities.
Lessons from Poland's recent experience. In the aftermath of the flood, Polish experts and local
authorities have pointed to a number of important lessons that should guide improvements in the current
flood management system, and the design of the Bank's assistance. These include:
* A up-to-date and modem catchment and river basin water and flood management strategy
is needed to provide a framework for sound investment and the development of local flood
protection and response plans;
*  Coordination of actions and decisions during flood management operations needs to be
stronger and more streamlined; changes and adjustments in legislation and institutional
arrangements may be necessary;
* Modem, reliable communications, information systems, analytical tools and models, and
monitoring systems are needed to improve and support decision making and planning,
particularly contingency planning;
*  A local flood response system based on better and more detailed planning matched to a
reliable and timely information system, and extensive and specific training those who must
play a role in the response system as well as the general public is needed;
*  Local capacity to reduce the vulnerability to damage and economic loss in flood hazard
zones, and halt and in some cases reverse the encroachment into flood plains and polder
areas must be strengthened;
* Existing hydrotechnical infrastructure must be strengthened and modernized to account for
recent and future economic development, improve flood management operations and
response, and reduce flood risk.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In August 1997, the GoP requested the Bank to develop on an urgent basis a project to provide
financing and technical assistance for flood recovery and protection. Based on discussions with the
Ministries of Finance, Environment, Interior, Agriculture and with the Minister for Flood Recovery, the
Bank and the GoP have agreed the key points relating to the loan amount, GoP co-funding of the
project, allocation of funds, disbursement arrangements, implementing arrangements and flow of funds,
main project components and priority actions, and project preparation. In addition, the GoP has formed
an interagency Task Force to supervise and accelerate the pace of project preparation. The Task Force
is headed by the Minister for Flood Recovery, and includes a Deputy Minister of Environment, a
Deputy Minister of Finance, and the Deputy Director of IMGW. Ongoing GoP actions in response to
the flood disaster include assistance provided under the National Reconstruction and Modernization
Program described in section B.2. above.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank brings to the process of reconstruction and recovery from the historic flood of 1997 an
organizational framework and clear process for identifying, selecting and implementing priority
investments for municipal/rural infrastructure and flood management. The project will help to
mobilize and target other GoP and donor resources for flood recovery. Through the emergency
project, the Bank can provide critical funding when it is most needed.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)



-15-
1. Economic:
[]Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$    million; ERR=  % []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[x] Other: economic analysis is not applicable
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$        million; FRR=     %
Not applicable.
3. Technical:
The project's technical design is well suited to Poland's requirements for rapid investment for repair of
rural and municipal infrastructure and flood hazard reduction. Specific investment identification and
cost estunates have been calculated on the basis of data compiled and analyzed by the preparation and
appraisal missions, and reflect the priorities and costs identified by local government and technical
agencies, within an acceptable margin of error for costs. Allowances are made for physical and price
contingencies consistent with rapid disbursement for infrastructure repair and emergency planning.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
* Municipal and Rural Infrastructure Component: voivodship, municipal and gmina governments
-  Flood Management and Hazard Reduction Component: Minister for Flood Recovery, Ministries
of Environment and Agriculture, RZGW, IMGW, and ODGW; and voivodship governments.
b. Project management: Minister of Flood Recovery - PCU
5. Social:
Positive social impacts are anticipated as a result of the restoration of basic infrastructure providing
transportation, public buildings (e.g., schools, hospitals, communal housing), wastewater treatment,
water supply, district heating and flood protection. In the event that flood management planning would
cause relocation of settlements or changes in land use, the proposed measures would be subject to
public review consistent with Bank policy.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category [] A   [x] B   [] C
The project would allow for repairs and modernization of destroyed and damaged municipal and rural
infrastructure. Therefore, no new structures are envisaged. Under the water management and flood
prevention component, dike repairs and strengthening are foreseen (the Project does not include any
investments for dams). These operations do not require environmental permits or clearances since they
address hydrotechnical structures already in place. Nevertheless, environmental factors will be further
assessed at the detailed design stage for each structure that may have had environmental flaws in its
pre-existing form, and appropriate mitigation measures incorporated as part of the modernization of
flood structures. Because this project involves the rehabilitation of existing hydrotechnical structures
(e.g., dikes), the operations envisioned will not adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows
to other riparian states, nor will they be adversely affected by other riparians' possible water use.
Therefore, in accordance with the Bank's policy for Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50,
para.7), other riparian states need not be notified of the project. Nevertheless, as stated earlier under
the section International Donors and Co-financiers, the Government of Poland is keeping other riparian
states informed through the Odra River Committee, which includes the governments of Poland, Czech
Republic, Germany, and the EU and serves to coordinate development of the Odra river basin flood
management system. No potential detrimental impacts on riparian states are envisaged.



-16-
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: This project has been prepared in close
collaboration with GoP ministries and technical agencies, and provincial, municipal and gmina officials
to define the project, assess investments needs, prioritize actions, and develop an implementation plan.
Preparation also has included consultation with leading environmental NGO representatives. Project
concept and priority investments have been developed by local consultants in very close cooperation
with local governments. Priorities were confirmed by local councils as well as technical agencies.
b. Other stakeholders: Collaboration with other international donors and other Bank operations
directed towards other elements of flood recovery has been emphasized.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Factors critical to the sustainability of the project include strong motivation on the part of national,
regional and local governments to implemnent quickly flood recovery and risk reduction measures to
enhance public health and safety and to limit future economic losses. For the Municipal and Rural
Infrastructure Component and reconstruction of hydrotechnical infrastructure within the Flood
Management Component, government budgetary support is needed only during the project
implementation phase, consistent with the nature of an emergency recovery project. Government
budgetary support beyond the implementation phase for improved flood management would not
significantly exceed current expenditures for water management or flood control, as the project
emphasizes improved coordination between existing institutions and capabilities rather than creation
and maintenance of new organizations. The choice to provide the funds to beneficiaries as grants rather
than on-lending was made due to the very linited borrowing capacity and small budgets of gminas
relative to the resources needed for infrastructure rehabilitation. Large municipalities are providing
greater cost-sharing as a condition for receiving grants, commensurate with their larger budgets and
reverne potential. The flood management component is to be implemented by government institutes
and would therefore not involve on-lending.



-17-
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                      Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
*  Central Government adopts legislation to    L           .  Project contributions to improved
restucture, strengthen, and steamline basin                flood management not dependent
planning and flood operation functions;                    on new legislation
M
*  Sufficient counterpart financing,                       .  Sub-components prioritized so that
M               most urgent can be financed from
*  Efficient coordination between different                    available funds
involved agencies
Sufficient supervision support
from Bank Task Team at initial
stage to set up procedures for
effective implementation
Overall Risk Rating    M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low
Risk)
There are three main risks to the successful implementation of projects ofthis type. First is the possible use
of funds for sub-optimal expenditures. This risk is being addressed through a carefully defined portfolio of
activities. The portfolio covers activities under both the Municipal and Rural Infastructure and the Flood
M1anagement Components. The second risk is a delay in project imnplernentation. This risk is being reduced
-by Poland's and the Bank's joint effort to adopt straightforward solutions to project design, flow of finds,
and procurmnent methods, and by the establishment of a PCU by loan effectiveness. The creation of PCUs
has proven effective in managing energency programs. A third risk is the large number of implementing
agencies involved in the project. This risk is addressed through effective coordination provided by the
PCU, close project supervision by the Minister for Flood Recovery, and clear implementing agreements
between MFR and the inplementing agencies.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
* Exclusion of some flooded regions in order to concentrate on the Odra River basin. The municipal
and rural infiastructure component of the project concentrates on the Odra Basin as the region most
heavily damaged by the flood. Funding from other donor organizations have been identified to help
address the needs of the Upper Vistula and other regions.
* The project does not include any expansion or rehabilitation of the retention reservoir system or any
resettlement activities. In the event studies to be undertaken under the project (Component B)
include recommendations for changes of land use (e.g., improvement of agricultural and other land
use practices) or expansion or rehabilitation of reservoir capacity, environmental and social
impacts assessments would be conducted according to Bank procedures as part of these studies to
ensure the appropriateness of such recommendations.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(i)    Establishment of the Steering Committee
(ii)    Establishment of the PCU.
(iii)   hlitiation of recruitment of the auditor and provision to the Bank of shortlist of
candidates



-18-
2. Other:
(i)    The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance the PIP.
(ii)   The Borrower shall maintain until Project completion the Steering Committee.
(iii)   The Borrower shall maintain until Project completion the PCU and assign to it
responsibility for overall Project implementation and coordination.
(iv)   The Borrower shall establish by March 31, 1998 two Basin Flood Management
Coordination and Information Centers, one in Wroclaw and one in Krakow.
(v)    The Borrower shall select consultants to assist in the operation of the PCU by
February 15, 1998.
(vi)   The Borrower shall prepare a mid-term review of the Project by August 31, 1999, and
review said report with the Bank by November 30, 1999.
(vii)  The Borrower shall have the funds flow system of the Project evaluated and shall
submit to the Bank a report on such evaluation by February 28, 1998. Said report will
be reviewed by the Borrower and the Bank within one month of submission. On the
basis of said review, the Borrower shall ensure the efficient flow of funds for the
Project.
(viii)  The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Beneficiaries under
Funding Agreements with standard terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank.
(ix)   The PCU shall prepare quarterly project progress reports for review by the Borrower
and the Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[ I The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] ([The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader: Piotr Wilczynski, ECSRE
Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Signpd Nnvemnher 76 1 QQ7 RM Warsaw
Country Director: Basil Kavalsky, ECCPL



Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                             (Goal to Bank Mission)
•  Project is not listed in CAS as it *  improved access to safe   *  implementation  *  implementation of the
responds to a national          drinking water;             completion report;        National
emergency that occurred after   *  return infrastructure                             Reconstruction and
the last CAS discussion;        facilities to operational                             Modernization
*  Supports private-sector growth   conditions                                           Program
(esp. in infrastructure
development); supports
environmental and social
sustainability by repairing
environmental infrastructure
and restoring basic
infrastructure necessary for
economic activity
Project Development Objective:                                                        (Objective to Goal)
*  Restoring basic infrastructure    *  establish a Steering  *  monthly PCU reports;   *  continued local
in municipalities and rural areas  Committee            *  reports from ongoing       governments
affected by the flood;       *  establish a PCU             supervision by Res.      commitment and
*  Reducing vulnerability and risk  *  establish Regional Flood  Mission;                leadership;
of future floods;               Management Committees                             *  continued foreign
*  Strengthened and modernized    *  implementation (funding)                            donor involvement
flood management system         agreements between the
PCU and implementing
agencieslgminas
Outputs:                                                                              (Outputs to Objective)
*  Water, Sewerage, Solid Waste   *  within one year 60% of   *  monthly PCU reports;   *  Central Government
contracts for 80 gminas (74     the flood damage in all    *  reports from ongoing   adopts legislation to
water, 86 sewage, 8 solid       sectors will be repaired;   supervision by Res.       restructure, strengthen,
waste);                      *  during the second and       Mission;                  and streamline basin
*  Local Roads & Bridges projects   third years, the remaining  *  RZGW reports;         planning and flood
in 100 gminas (200 separate     30%/O and 10%,          *  random audits;            operation functions;
contracts);                     respectively, will be   *  basin plan adopted by   *  sufficient counterpart
*  District Heating & Gas projects  repaired;                  basin agencies, local     fnancing;
in 11 gminas                 *  GIS for Odra;               and central authorities;  *  efficient coordination
*  Communal Housing & Public    *  flood hazard maps        *  installed and fully       between different
Bldgs projects in 122 gminas    *  feasibility studies for  functional information   involved agencies.
(170 contracts)                 major new flood             system and GIS tools;
*  Basin Flood Protection           management investments  *  adopted and certified
Planning                     *  data transmission and       FRRP plans;
*  Monitoring, Forecasting and      communications          *  feasibility study of
Warning System                  equipment                   Flood Insurance
*  Flood Protection Infrastructure   *  flood forecasting and  program completed
*  Flood Risk Reduction and         warning system
Prevention Program
Project Components/Sub-         Inputs: (budget for each                             (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2 for    component)                  *  regular progress and   *  timely establishment
project description)                                            disbursement reports;    PCU and
*  Municipal and rural          *  US$ 267.7 million        *  reports by cofmancing     implementing
infrastructure                                              donors and their local    agreements
*  Flood management and hazard   *  US$ 227.3 million          implementing agencies
reduction
*  Project admin. and technical  *  US$ 3.0 million
assistance



Annex 2
Emergency Flood Recovery
Project Description
1.    The proposed Project is of an emergency nature, aiming to restore basic infrastructure
in communities and rural areas affected by the flood, to make urgent repairs to the flood
management system, and to improve the policy framework and institutional capacity for
better flood management and mitigation, concentrating on the most heavily affected region of
Poland. The project is designed to help to implement key elements of the Government's
National Reconstruction and Modernization Program developed in response to urgent
national needs following the July 1997 floods.
2.    The Project will encompass three main components:
A)    Municipal and Rural Infrastructure, which includes technical assistance,
design, and investments to restore infrastructuie at the municipal and gmina
level.
B)    Flood Management and Hazard Reduction, which includes technical
assistance, design, and urgent investments to upgrade hydrotechnical
infrastructure; modernize flood management systems, and improve
forecasting and planning.
C)    Project Administration and Technical Assistance to establish a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) to help implement, inter alia, procurement and
disbursement activities associated with the Project.
BACKGROUND
3.    The flood of July 1997 in Poland, one of the worst experienced in this century,
exposed both the strengths and the weaknesses of the present flood management and hazard
reduction system. The response in the region and in the voivodships and gminas proved the
capacity of local authorities for leadership and imaginative crisis management despite the
breakdown of communication and information systems. But the great stress which this
extreme event placed on the flood management system also exposed gaps and weaknesses in
the flood management, and the technical and management systems. These have been
recognized in Poland in the past, but their solution has been deferred at significant cost by
budget constraints and other concerns, and blocked by institutional rigidity, despite many
extensive planning and technical studies and assessments.
4.    The flood of July 1997 was a major test for the current flood protection system in the
Odra River Basin, which exists in the virtually unchanged form for almost 100 years. It was
developed after the 1903 flood, as a system consisting of flood protection levees, storage
reservoirs, flood relief canals, polders and dry water retention basins. In July 1997 all these
facilities turned out to be grossly inadequate, especially for the protection of large urban
centers located in the Odra and Nysa Klodzka valleys, where greatest losses were suffered not
only in municipal infrastructure, housing, commercial enterprises, power and gas distribution
facilities, and telecommunication, but also to the dikes and other flood protection. The 1997
flood also caused substantial losses to rural population in areas flooded as a result of water
breaking or overflowing levees.



2
5.    Estimates of total damage suffered in the flood range from 5 billion PLN to 20 billion
PLN (by the affected Provincial Governors and gminas -- a consensus appears to be emerging
that the estimated damage is likely to be in the range of 10 billion PLN. Damage to flood
protection infrastructure alone is estimated to be 1 billion PLN in the Odra river basin; an
estimated 129 kilometers of dike were reported completely destroyed and 330,000 hectares of
land inundated. The dikes that were intended to protect large municipal areas, industrial
centers, sewage treatment plants, landfills and agricultural areas in the upper and middle Odra
valley were too low, could not sustain long periods of high river stage, and in some areas
constricted the waterway. There were a large number of breaches, and many structures,
particularly small regulators, spillways and outlet works suffered major structural damage and
erosion.
6.    While the extensive system of storage reservoirs in the Odra basin performed well in
the flood, the total flood reserve in these reservoirs is very small. A program to construct a
system of eleven multipurpose reservoirs by the year 2000 was planned for the upper and
middle Odra. This system was to have a storage capacity 1220 million m3 including a flood
reserve of 150 million m3, but only four have been built with total storage capacity of 134
million m3 and only 16 million m3 of flood reserve. The low flood reserve in both the
planned and constructed system is a consequence of excessively high forecasts of domestic
and industrial water demand, and high minimum flow requirements to support navigation in
the Odra river during the low flow season. However, this region has a chronic water supply
problem, and in the future, the competition between flood protection and water supply, and
more recently environmental protection and conservation, is expected to continue in the
future and intensify.
7.    The flood risk is thought to be much higher in the upper Vistula because it lacks the
extensive flood protection system in the Odra. But because the storm was farther west, the
damnage sustained in the upper Vistula is reported to be much less, about half that in the Odra.
While more dikes are reported to have been damaged, about 215 km, the area affected is less,
only 110,000 hectares, and the damage was much less severe with far fewer catastrophic
breaches. Planning studies have indicated that total flood storage capacity in the upper
Vistula should be about 1 billion m3 while the existing capacity is about 300 million m3.
8..    While the integrity of the storage system was sustained during the flood, and the
benefits were substantial (if the Odra River discharge at Wroclaw had not been lowered
substantially by the reservoirs on the Nysa River, it is difficult to imagine the magnitude of
damage to this major city that may have resulted) the problems of efficiently operating this
system during the flood to maximize flood benefits exposed the most serious weaknesses of
the current flood management system. The response to the flood was chaotic. The
monitoring system was vulnerable to damage early in the flood, there was no effective
forecasting and warning system, and even before communications failed, the information
systems could provide little to support decision making during the flood, particularly the
operation of the reservoirs. Without a clear set of operating principles, and information and
analytical capability to consider alternatives, operators were left with rigid, overly simplified
and inflexible rules. The present administrative system, and the fragmented and diffused
responsibilities for flood management, exposed the consequences of not reconciling the
conflict between a basin or system approach to flood operations and local demands.
GOVERNMENT RESPONSE
9.    In response to the flood disaster the Government prepared and adopted a strategic
program entitled "The National Reconstruction and Modernization Program (NRMP)". The
Program comprises an immediate program of ad hoc actions to be completed by September



3
1997; a program of medium-term actions to be competed by March 31, 1998; and a program
of long-term actions that would be carried out thereafter. The aim of the Program is to,
among other things:
*   provide assistance to affected people, households, and institutions who have
suffered damage, and to remove the direct consequences of the flood and
associated dangers;
*   create legal and economic preconditions for reconstruction and repair of
housing stock and essential public facilities;
*   modernize and rebuild flood prevention works, technical infrastructure, and
public facilities
10.   Part I of the Program consists of immediate ad hoc actions involving the removal of
the direct consequences, including the repair of breached dikes, Part II of the Program is
ongoing, and involves a set of medium-range projects to provide assistance to agriculture,
repair of housing stock and public facilities, and basic repairs and overhaul of infrastructure
installations. The third and fnal part is the long-term program (to be completed by the year
2001) that involves reconstruction and modernization of regions affected by the flood,
especially in the area of regulating water relations, flood protection installations, public
facilities, and the implementation of the most advanced available early warning systems
against natural disasters. This Project fully supports the overall objectives of the Program.
PROJECT DESCRIPIION
A.    Municipal and Rural Infrastructure (US$267.7 million equivalent)
11.   The municipal and rural infrastructure component will cover repairs to water and
wastewater systems, sanitary landfills, local roads and bridges, district heating and gas
networks, communal housing and public buildings in about 125 of the most damaged gminas
Investments for each sector are summarized as follows; the detailed listing of specific
investments for each location is given in Annex A of the PIP.
12.   Criteria andpriorities. All of the specific investments included within this
component were identified as having highest priority based on local needs by representatives
of gmnina, municipal and provincial governments in the six project voivodships. Technical
and cost data for each investment have been compiled and analyzed by Polish experts
working in consultation with gmina, voivodship and national officials and Bank staff. The
following criteria have been used for selecting investments to be financed under this
component:
* Communities located within the Odra river basin
* Towns that were inundated over 25 % of their territory
* Only flood-related damages are eligible for infrastructure
* Priority projects identified as such by the local communities
*  Projects that prevent health risks to the community
* Project with economic importance to the community (i.e. transport, essential municipal
services)
* Projects with social importance
* Lifeline services and facilities (i.e. public housing, health facilities, schools, etc.)
* Projects that provide needed repairs to buildings prior to winter weather



4
*Emergency response projects that were completed immediately after the flood, but that
have not been financed.
Municipal and Rural Infrastructure Sub-Components
A.1. Water Supply, Sewerage, Drainage and Solid Waste Facilities (US$73.0 million
equivalent)
13.   For water supply the Project covers repairs to water intakes, water treatment plants
and pumping stations, and replacement of water pipes, valves and control structures. For
sewerage and drainage the works would involve replacement of sewers and collectors,
repairs to sewage treatment plants and pumping stations, cleaning of the clogged sewers and
drainage systems. For solid waste disposal the damaged sanitary landfills would be repaired.
Pipes, valves, gates, fittings, materials, pumps, control equipment, and spare parts for water
supply, sewerage, and solid waste disposal would be supplied under this sub-component.
About 80 gminas would benefit from the Project, including about 74 water supply projects,
86 sewerage projects, and 8 solid waste disposal projects.
14.   Physical works included will be selected to satisfy the following priorities: the
protection of surface and groundwater from actual and potential sources of pollution; the
provision of adequate treatment and disinfection facilities to ensure water supply to
satisfactory quality; the rehabilitation of distribution systems to enable ready access to public
water supplies; the rehabilitation of sewerage networks to ensure satisfactory sanitary
conditions in affected areas; and the rehabilitation of sewage treatment and solid waste
disposal facilities where urgently required for environmental reasons. Works to be financed
under the Project also include rehabilitation and repair of water sources and water distribution
networks, cleaning of the sewage collection and drainage systems, repair or replacement of
broken sewers, rehabilitation of treatment plants, pumping stations, and sanitary landfills,
installation of electric lines and control systems.
A.2.  Local Roads and Bridges (US$56.5 million equivalent)
15.   For municipal and gmina-managed roads and bridges, damages would be repaired
and destroyed structures would be rebuilt in about 100 gminas. In places where the river bed
has changed, the Project would also cover the cost of planning and feasibility studies for a
new road alignment and new river crossings. In Wroclaw, floods caused significant damage
to the local roads and public transportation system. Five transformer stations and some
segments of the tram lines would be replaced under the Project. Local roads and bridges
related works would represent about 200 contracts.
A.3.  Distrct Heating and Gas Systems (US$33.4 million equivalent)
16.   For district heating and gas systems, the Project will cover the replacement of
damaged pipes, heat exchangers, pumps, automation equipment, reconstruction of bridge
crossings, and repairs and replacement of other damages to the district heating in 10 gminas
and repairs of a gas network in I gmina.
A.4.  Communal Housing and Public Buildings (US$94.6 million equivalent)
17.   The damages made to communal housing and public buildings in all gminas account
for about 40% of total damages. For communal housing, kindergartens, schools, hospitals
and other public buildings the Project would finance about 170 contracts consisting of



5
repairing all damages including walls, electrical systems, plumbing, flooring, heating
equipment and finishes (wall finishes, windows, doors etc.). To mitigate damages to the
housing sector, the government launched a housing repair assistance program providing
concessionary loans (2% p.a.) to private property owners, cooperatives and gininas. It is
therefore appropriate and equitable that the project support the government's program by
providing funds for communal housing repairs.
A.5   Engineering Designs and Supervision (US$10.2 million equivalent)
18.   Consulting services including engineering designs, preparation of tender documents
and construction supervision would be financed under this sub-component. This would also
include the assessment of potential impact of the above works on the human and physical
enviromnent, consistent with Bank environmental and social assessment procedures.
19.   Implementation. For the Municipal and Rural Infrastructure Component, the main
implementation agencies will be the municipalities and gminas, with the assistance by a PCU.
The goods, works and services financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. Detailed procurement and disbursement arrangements are set out in
Annex 6.
B.    Flood Management and Hazard Reduction (US$227.3 million equivalent)
20.   This component is designed to assist the GoP to strengthen sustainable long-term
flood hazard reduction and management as well as to support investments in the
rehabilitation, modernization, and expansion of flood protection infrastructure. The broad
objective of this component is to strengthen the existing flood management system to reduce
direct and indirect flood damages, reduce flood hazard and vulnerability, and reduce the
economic costs to central and local budgets from floods that range from frequent to rare
catastrophic floods. The component focuses on the flood management problems of the
middle and upper Odra River basin, and the upper Vistula River basin. The approach
involves three interrelated aspects of the flood management system:
-  first, strengthening theframework of river basin and catchment water
management plans together with a modernized system of hydrotechnical
infrastructure. Plans should be comprehensive in order to fully consider the
shortage of water resources and the sensitivity of the local enviromnent in this
region, but focus in particular on cost-effective and sustainable flood protection
and management throughout the basin;
* second, expand and develop the information and response system that supports
more effective flood management operations at the local and regional levels
during the flood season and during extreme flood events; and
*  third, strengthen the preventive system of programs, incentives, and information
that enables local authorities to reduce flood vulnerability and hazard, and reduce
the recurrent drain on their limited resources for flood recovery without recourse
to the central budget.
21.   Priorities. The aim of the flood management system is to save lives and to minimize
social, economic and environmental damage. The extent of damage caused by a flood is
determined not only by the capabilities of passive structural protection measures (flood



6
storage, dikes, etc.) but by the active preparedness and response system, and the active
management of flood risk in flood hazard areas. An active preparedness and response system
must have a reliable monitoring, forecasting and warning system, and the reliable flow of the
right kind of data and information to a well planned response system. The present flood
management system does not meet this standard, with negative and growing economic and
financial consequences. The priority needs therefore include not only with the repair and
modernization of the structural flood protection system, but also the legislative, legal, policy,
monitoring, and planning issues as well. Active and effective flood risk management at the
Provincial and Gmina level is an essential part of the system and must be strengthened along
with coordination between basin and local flood management. Specific priorities include:
*    Technical studies -- There is no lack of water management studies in Poland,
but there is an urgent need to bring these up-to-date, particularly in regard to
modern economic and environmental assessment, and to develop a broader
integrated basin strategy. Among the priority needs are:
>    review and revise key technical standards for the flood protection
system
>    prepare a new, integrated basin strategy and flood protection plan
based on sound economic and environmental principles, with the
active participation of Provincial and local authorities
3    review the instructions and contingency plans given to reservoir
operators
3    urgently review technical standards for dike modernization and
strengthening, and prepare a feasible plan for its implementation
*    Investment -- Repair and reconstruction of the existing infrastructure is clearly
the immediate priority for investment. However, in the mid- and longer term,
the whole system of protection must be reconsidered. In developing a strategy
and preparing an investment program to modemize and upgrade the system, the
priority areas of concern should be:
3    upgrading and modemizing the passive and active flood protection
and flood risk management in the large metropolitan areas and main
cities, including Raciborz, Kedzierzyn-Kozle, Opole, Wroclaw, Breg
Dolny, Katowice, and Krakow
>~   a practical and sustainable program of expanding, strengthening and
modernization of the dike system (the current program was planned
at the rate of 200 km/yr, but the rate of investment has not reach this
level, and has fallen from 140 to just 40 km/yr)
>    a reliable and modern monitoring, forecasting system linked to
information systems that can reliably disseminate needed information
to enable effective planning, operations, preparedness, and response
>    while the flood storage system will continue to play a key role in
basin flood management these proposals, particularly Raciborz,
Kamieniec Zabkowicki, Rzymowka, Wojanow and Wrzeszczyn in
the Odra, and Czchow II, Krepna and Dukla, and Kiewistka in the
upper Vistula, must be reviewed rigorously from an economic,
environmental and financial perspective
*    Institutional arrangements -- the potential for high returns from the very
modest investment required in more effective institutional arrangement should
be a high priority for the government. Specific priorities include:



7
>    restructuiring and legislative changes that establish greater
transparency, clearer lines of responsibly recognizing the
requirements for effective basin and local flood management
>    strengthening existing and new organizations at the basin, Provincial,
and local levels with the tools required to function effectively
Financingflood protection -- while flood protection is essentially a public
good, and according to the existing Polish water law is the responsibility of the
central government, serious consideration should be given to the competing
demands for water investment in the basins, and to a more broadly shared
responsibility for the burden of financially developing and sustaining the whole
system of water management. Water supply in Poland is shifting rapidly to a
market approach, but a more sustainable and efficient flood protection will
likely depend on a stronger system of local government finance. An important
priority measure could be the introduction of a more effective flood insurance
program.
Flood Management and Hazard Reduction Sub-Components
B.1.  Basin Flood Management Planning (US$19.1 million equivalent)
B3.1.1. Update and Modernize Basin Water Management Strategies and Plans.
The Project will support the updating and development of new basin management strategies
and plans prepared by regional river basin agencies with the participation of provincial and
municipal authorities and other concerned agencies. Emphasis would be placed on economic
assessment of flood hazard, formulation of alternatives for different levels of protection,
based on combinations of a wide range of structural and non-structural options,
environmental assessment, and the assessment of financial feasibility and sustainability. The
project will support the strengthening of capacity in the regional river basin management
agencies by investments monitoring, mapping, models and information systems.
Coordination and collaboration with other specialized agencies and institutes will be
strengthened.
B.1.2. A Modern System of Maps and Related Data. The Project will support
compilation of up-to-date and verified a digital terrain model (DTM) and data base to support
hydrologic and hydraulic modeling and flood plain management in the Project basin areas,
the development and use of advanced GIS and remotely sensed data to support planning and
modeling in the Project basin areas. The project would support the preparation and
reproduction of modern orthophoto topographic maps at a scale of 1:5000 (1:2000 is special
flood risk areas) which show flood hazard zones by shading the areas at risk from floods with
50 and 100 year return periods, and the flood of record. These maps are intended to support
improved flood plain regulation and management by gmninas to reduce flood risk, as well as
support the development of land use plans at the gmina level (sub-component B.4).These
activities will be phased focusing initially on the main river valleys and high priority sub-
basin areas. Project activities will fully utilize the expertise, technology and data bases
presently available in Poland, and will support the development of capacity within the Project
basin areas to effectively use them in strategic planning and flood management operations.
B. 1.3. Simulation Models and Information Systems. The Project will support the
acquisition, installation with necessary computer equipment, and utilization in each Sub-
component of hydraulic simulation and forecasting models required for strategic, project, and
contingency planning during flood management operations in the responsible basin planning



8
and operational agencies.. This critical technology is available in the country and this
capacity will be fully utilized. The Project will support the development of modem
information systems to support the effective use of these models, and the installation of
secure communication systems to ensure that forecasts, warnings and the related data can be
reliably disseminated to voivodship flood management centers and to other concerned
agencies.
B.2.  Monitoring, Forecasting & Warning (US$71.0 million equivalent)
23.   The Project will support the procurement and installation of an automatic network of
hydrological and meteorological measuring stations that is not vulnerable to disruption by
floods, the acquisition and use of modern meteorological forecasting models and related
computer equipment, a modern and secure system of data transmission, receiving, processing
and storage, and specific programs and activities to put this system into operation in
collaboration with regional river basin agencies and local authorities.
B.3.  Investments in FloodProtection Infrastructure (US$126.3 million equivalent)
24.   . The Project will support preparation and investment in the rehabilitation, and
modernizationof high priority, feasible flood protection infrastructure. A preliminary priority
portfolio of sub-projects has been identified in consultation with regional agencies and
concerned voivodships and is identified in Annex A of the PIP. Investments will thus be
phased over the period of Project implementation to allow sufficient time for accelerated
technical preparation for each sub-project.
B.4.  Flood Risk Reduction and Prevention (Annex 2.2.4) (US$10.9 million equivalent)
B4.1  Pilot Phase-Flood Risk Reduction Planning (FRRP)-The Project will
support the development of detailed flood preparedness and response plans at the voivodship
and gmina level together with appropriate manuals and training. These plans would be
coordinated with and keyed to the system for dissemination of flood forecast and warning
data (to ensure that all essential data are timely and provided in the right form). The FRRP
will focus on emergency response and recovery, flood preparedness, public awareness and
participation, and training in areas subject to repetitive flood loss and substantive damages.
The FRRP will introduce the use of flood hazard maps (prepared under sub-component B. 1)
and strengthen local flood plain management and zoning enforcement. The Project will
support the preparation of a feasibility study of new flood insurance initiative to be used in
coordination with the FRRP. The pilot phase will focus on two voivodships, two gminas, and
two municipal areas. The objective of the pilot phase is to test the design of the program, to
capture lessons and insights learned, and to design the follow on program to be implemented
in other flood risk areas.
B4.2 Implementation Phase-.Implementation of FRRPs and expansion of the
Pilot Tested Program to other Provinces and Gamnas. In Phase II of the program, the
Project will support the implementation of measures to implement the FRRP Pilot
communities, expand the program to cover additional communities, and support the
implementation of adopted FRRPs in Phase II communities.
B4.3 Feasibility Study for Flood Insurance Program. The Project would support
the study of alternatives that provide effective incentives for local private and public action to
reduce flood vulnerability and potential economic and financial loses in flood hazard zones,



9
including a feasibility of developing a flood insurance program implemented through the
private sector.
C.    Project Administration (US$3 million equivalent)
25.   Procurement, disbursement, supervision and related administrative services essential
for smooth Project implementation will be undertaken under the overall supervision of a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to be established. In order to address the different needs
and capabilities of about 115 small gminas and 10 large cities (of more than 100,000
population), technical assistance would be provided for selection of qualifying investments,
feasibility studies and engineering designs tendering, contract administration and supervision.
26.   The Office of the Minister of Flood Recovery (MFR) as the responsible office for
coordination and implementation of the flood assistance program will vest in the PCU the
authority to act on their behalf for the expedient provision of the following services:
a) Overall project administration, coordination, monitoring and progress reporting;
b) establish and advise on implementation of the detailed procedures for project
implementation;
c) procurement of goods and necessary consumables for the exclusive use of the
project operation;
d) verification of payment requests; proper maintenance of project accounts and
project records; and
e) advise on the need to engage additional staff for the proper performance of duties
under the project.
27.   The PCU will report to the MFR and will be guided by a steering committee
representing the MFR, Ministry of Environment (MoE), Ministry of Finance (MoF) and
Ministry of Agriculture. The PCU will be responsible for day to day administration and the
implementation of the Municipal and Rural Infrastructure Component of the Project and for
financial management and supervision of the Flood Management and Hazard Reduction
Component.
28.   Detailed implementation arrangements for each Project Component are described in a
separate Project Implementation Plan.



Annex 3
Poland
Emergency Flood Recovery Project
Estimated Project Costs
(USS Million)
Local  Foreign  Total
Proiect Component
A. Municipal and Rural Infrastructure                149.1    94.3   243.4
B. Flood Management
1. Basin flood management planning                  15.3     2.4    17.7
2. Monitoring, forecasting & warning                34.3    30.3    64.6
3. Investment in flood protection infrastructure   114.7       -   114.7
4. Flood hazard reduction                            9.6     0.3      9.9
Subtotal                                             173.3    33.3   206.8
C. Project Implementation Support                      1.8     1.0      2.8
Total Baseline Cost IA. + B. + C.)                   324.7   128.2   452.9
Physical Contingencies                              32.5    12.8    45.3
Price Contingencies                                   -       -        -
Total Proiect Cost                                   357.2   141.1   498.2



Annex 4
Cost-Benefit or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
[not applicable]
.      \~~~~~~~~



Annex 5
Poland
Emergency Flood Recovery Project
Financial Summary
(US$ Million)
1998    1999    2000      Total
Project Cost
Investment Costs                                   207.9   195.0    95.3    498.2
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
IBRD                                                42%      39%     38%       40%
Co-financiers                                       26%      40%     44%       35%
Government
Central                                           2%       5%      7%        4%
Local                                            30%      16%     11%       21%
Other                                                0%       0%      0%        0%
Total                                           100%    100%    100%       100%



Annex 6
Emergency Flood Recovery Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The procurement of goods under the project will be conducted in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1996, revised
August 1996". The procurement of consultants will follow the Bank's guidelines, "Selection of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997". The goods, works and services not
financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with national regulations, or the regulations of
the cofinancing institutions. A General Procurement Notice will be published in the Development
Business and in the national press in January 1998.
Procurement methods (Table A). Simplified ICB will be used for procurement of goods
and technical services (for contracts estimated to cost US$2.5 million equivalent or more each)
and for civil works (for contracts estimated to cost US$5 million equivalent or more each). For
civil works contracts estimated to cost less than US$5 million each, National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) will be applied. International Shopping (IS) will be used for goods contracts estimated to
cost less than US$2.5 million equivalent each, and National Shopping (NS) for goods contracts
less than US$250,000 equivalent each. Civil works contracts up to US$500,000 equivalent each
will be procured using the procedure for procurement of minor works, i.e., obtaining at least three
quotations from qualified contractors. For ICB, the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents will be
used.
Consultants' assignments estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per contract will be
procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) for which shortlists will comprise
only domestic consulting firms; assignments above US$200,000 will also be procured through
QCBS but these assignments will be advertised in Development Business and in the national press
for expression of interest. Individual consultants will be'procured in accordance with the procedure
in Part V of the Consultant Guidelines. The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals and Forms of
Contracts will be used. Proposals for direct contracting not included in the procurement plans will
need the Bank's prior acceptance.
Prior review thresholds (Table B). All ICB contracts for goods and works and the first
NCB contract will be subject to the Bank's prior review. The NCB draft bidding documents will be
based on the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Small Works and will have to be submitted
to the Bank for acceptance before their use. All consultants' contracts estimated to cost
US$100,000 or more each (for firms) and US$50,000 equivalent or more each (for individuals),
will be subject to the Bank's review. Terrns of Reference for all assignments, regardless of their
value, will be reviewed by the Bank before the beginniing of the selection process. All other
contracts for goods, works and services which are not subject to prior review are subject to post
review.



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds fTable C). Disbursements will be made against eligible
project expenditures for goods, including technical services, works and consultants' services.
Goods will be financed at a 100% for foreign, 100% ex-factory, and 85% locally purchased items,
works at 85%, and consultant services at 100% (excluding taxes). Retroactive financing for the
emergency program, up to a limit of 20% (i.e. US$40 million) of the loan from August 19,1997 till
the date of loan signature, will be permissible to allow the immediate start of emergency
reconstruction and repair.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs): The use of SOEs will be for payments against
contracts which do not require the Bank's prior review. In other words, this will cover payments
for contracts which are less than the equivalent of US$5 million (works), US$2.5 nillion (goods),
US$100,000 (firms) and US$50,000 (individuals).
Special account: Due to the emergency nature of this project and the rapid disbursement
profile, the authorized allocation of the special account will be US$30 million. The Office of the
Minister of Flood Recovery will establish, maintain and operate the special account under
conditions acceptable to the Bank.



Annex 6, Table A
Poland
Emergency Flood Recovery
Project
Procurerment Methods
(US$ Million)
ICB     NCB    Other   NBF    Total
1. Works                                36.0    83.1    60.0   153.4    332.5
(17.1)   (45.3)  (51.4)1   (0.0)   (113.8)
2. Goods                                66.2       -     34.4    11.1    111.3
(38.2)     -   (25.5)2   (0.0)    (63.7)
3.Services                                 _       -     44.1    10.3      54.4
-       -   (22.5)'   (0.0)    (22.5)
Total                                  102.2    83.1   138.1   174.8    498.2
(55.3)  (45.3)  (99.4)       -   (200.0)
Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by IBRD
NBF = Not Bank Financed
' Includes Minor Works Contracts (MfW) estimated to cost US$51.4 million.
2 Covers International Shopping Contracts for Goods (IS) for US$21 million; and National Shopping
Contracts for Goods (NS) at US$4.5 million.
3 Comprises QCBS Contracts for consulting arrangements estimated to cost USS21.5 million; and a sole-
sourcing contract of US$1 million



Annex 6, Table B
Poland
Emergency Flood Recovery Project
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior
Review
Contract Value      Procurement   Contracts Subject to Prior Revlew/
(Threshold)         Method       Estimated Total Value Subject to Prior Review
US$ million
1. Works                   US$5 million or more    ICB             All        17.1
<5 million             NCB            First        4.0
c500,000            Small Works       None
2. Goods                 US$2.5 million or more     ICB            All        38.2
<2.5 million            IS            None
<250,000                NS            None
3. Services                US$200,000 or more     QCBS             All        17.5
-200,000         QCBS (National   $1 00,000 or
Shortlist)      more
-50,000            Individuals    $50,000 or
more
4. Miscelaneous         All sole sourcing                          All
contracts not included
in the procurement plan.
Total value    76.8
of contracts
subject to
prior review:
Except that terms of reference for all assignments regardless of value shall
be subject to the BanKes prior review.



Annex 6, Table C
Poland
Emergency Flood Recovery Project
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ Million)
Loan    Financing
Amount  Percentage
1. Works                94.5          85%
2. Goods                67.5         100% of foreign expendItures
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
85% of local expenditures
for oher items
procured locally
3. Consultant services   15.0        100%
4. Unallocated           23.0
Total                   200.0



Annex 7
Poland: Emergency Flood recovery Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                        Planned               Actual
(At final PAD stage)
B. Project Schedule                               Planned               Actual
(At final PAD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              9/ 8/19 97           9 / 8 /19 97
Appraisal mission departure                     10 /25/19 97           10/25/1997
Negotiations                                    11/17/19 97              /119
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   1/15 /19 98              / /19
Prepared by: Minister for Flood Recovery
Preparation assistance: [USAID, Norwegian TF]
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Piotr Wilczynski                 Project Management & Implementation
Margret Thalwitz                            Quality Review
Hans Apitz                               Project Advisor
Walter A. Garvey                          Water Resources
Olgun Ersenkal                         Municipal Infrastructure
Jan Drozdz                            Municipal Infrastructure
Andrei Iastsenia                       Emergency Preparedness
Janusz Kindler                            Water Resources
Brian S. Smith                            Financial Analysis
Ralph Braccio                               Co-Financing
Amy Evans                             Project Implementation
Zoe Kolovou                                Legal Review
Naushad Khan                                Procurement
Joseph Formoso                              Disbursement
Jacek Wojciechowicz                          External Affairs
Anna Piasecka                             General Support



Annex 8
Poland: Flood Emergency Recovery Project
Documents in the Project File*
A.   Aide Memoire (26 Sept 97)
B.    Back-to-Office (16 Oct 97)
C.    Project Information Document (PID)
D.    Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
E.    Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
F.    Loan Agreement
*Including electronic files.



MOP Schedule D
Generated: December 2, 1997
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Poland
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in Us$ Millions                    and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                  IBRD        IDA      Cancellations   Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 14
Active Loans
PL-PE-35082    IBRD42080    1998   GOVT. OF POLAND                      MUNICIPAL FINANCE                  4.00        0.00             0.00           4.00        0.00       0.00
PL-PE-35082    IBRD42081    1998   GOVT. OF POLAND                      MUNICIPAL FINANCE                  3.00        0.00             0.00          2.96         0.00       0.00
PL-PE-35082    IBRD42090    1998   GOVT. OF POLAND                      MUNICIPAL FINANCE                  8.00        0.00             0.00          8.00         0.00       0.00
PL-PE-35082    IBRD42091    1998   GOVT. OF POLAND                      MUNICIPAL FINANCE                  7.00        0.00             0.00           6.84        0.00       0.00
PL-PE-36061   IBRD40800    1997   GOVERNMENT OF POLAND                  PORT ACCESS a MGMT.               33.50        0.00             0.00          32.17       66.27       0.00
PL-PE-36061   IBRD40801    1997   GOVERNMENT OF POLAND                  PORT ACCESS & MGMT.               33.50        0.00             0.00         28.21        67.00       0.00
PL-PE-8595     IBRD40320    1996   BIELSKO-BIALA AQUA S.A.              BIELSKO-BIALA WATER               12.00        0.00             0.00         11.07        20.57       0.00
PL-PE-8595     IBRD40321    1996   BIELSKO-BIALA AQUA S.A.              BIELSKO-BIALA WATER                9.50        0.00             0.00           7.52       21.50       0.00
PL-PE-8604     IBRD3959A    1996   POLISH POWER GRID CO                 POWER TRANSMISSION               138.90        0.00             0.00        130.89       156.16       0.00
PL-PE-8604     IBRD3959S    1996   POLISH POWER GRID CO                 POWER TRANSMISSION                21.10        0.00             0.00           3.25      142.15       0.00
PL-PE-8614     IBRD38090    1995   KATOWICE DISTRICT HEATING            KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY              45.00        0.00             0.00          34.19       34.19       0.00
PL-PE-8610    IBRD36410    1994   GOVT. OF POLAND                       FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT             146.00        0.00            42.00           3.94       45.94       3.93
PL-PE-8599     IBRD35640    1993   REPUBLIC OF POLAND                   ROADS                            150.00        0.00             0.00          47.07       47.07       0.00
PL-PE-8587     IBRD34660    1992   REPUBLIC OF POLAND                   HEALTH                           130.00        0.00            30.00          46.65       76.65      46.67
PL-PE-8590     IBRD34990    1992   REPUBLIC OF POLAND                   HOUSING                          200.00        0.00           180.00          16.49      196.49      16.50
PL-PE-8571     IBRD33420    1991   REPUBLIC OF POLAND                   PRIVATIZN & RESTRUCT             280.00        0.00            47.28          70.50      117.78      70.49
PL-PE-8574     IBRD33190    1991   POLISH POST, TELEPHONE AN            TELECOMS I                       120.00        0.00            25.00          10.67       35.67      10.68
PL-PE-8576     IBRD33780    1991   DISTRICT HEATING ENTITY              HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCT              40.00        0.00             0.00          10.59      310.59      40.64
PL-PE-8576     IBRD33790    1991   DISTRICT HEATING ENTITY              HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCT              25.00        0.00             0.00           5.53      320.53      40.64
PL-PE-8576     IBRD33810    1991   DISTRICT HEATING ENTITY              HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCT              25.00        0.00             0.00           2.39      317.39      40.64
PL-PE-8576     IBRD33820    1991   DISTRICT HEATING ENTITY              HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCT             100.00        0.00            25.00          22.20      287.20      40.64
PL-PE-8582     IBRD33380    1991   REPUBLIC OF POLAND                   EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION             100.00        0.00            20.00          43.09       63.09      43.08
PL-PE-0585     IBRD33410    1991   MIN OF FINANCE                       FIN. INST. DEVELOP.              200.00        0.00             0.00          16.31       16.31       0.00
PL-PE-8568     IBRD32150    1990   POLISH OIL AND GAS CO.               ENERGY RES. DEV                  250.00         0.00            0.00          35.59       35.59       0.00
Total                                                                                                  2,081.50         0.00          369.28         600.72   2,378.14    353.91
Active Loans         Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                1,099.87             1,474.94            2,574.81
of which has been repaid:                  122.91               202.13              325.04
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                1,589.31             1,329.42             2,918.73
Amount sold                      :                  0.00                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                  0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                :                600.72               56.60               657.32
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Oprations if ormation Systein (OIS)                                                                                                                                     Page I



Poland at a glance                                                            8/28197
Europo &   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central middle-
Poland      Asia  Ineome      Development diamond'
Populatn mkd-1996 (millions)                        38.7       479      479
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                          3,220     2,180    4,640                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billIons US$S)                           124.6      1,043    2,173
Avorage annual growth, 1990-96
Populton (%)                                         0.2       0.3      1.5     GNP                              Gross
Labor force ()                                    04.5         0.5      1.8s
Moat recntsimat(/haatetyaravaltablesince1989)                                   capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% otpopulaIotn)             150
Urban populaon (% of total populatIon)    :85                   65       73
Llife xpectncy at birth (yeas):                       70        68       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 livO bIhsJ:)              14:       26       35               Access to safe water
Child malnutriton (% of chidren under 5)
Access to safe water (% of populaton):               100                e8
Illiteracy (% opopto n age 15+ )          f "    :                       13
Gross primary enrollment (of school-age populatibn)   99        97    :107                 Pnd
Male                                                98        97                         Upper-middle-Income group
Female                                              97        97
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM  RENDS:
197r    1988      1995    1996
Economic ratlo
GDP (billons USS)                                  ::71.1     117.7;   133.6; :
Gross domestic lnvestmentGDP                   .    27.6      A183     20.6:
Expors of goods and stvcsGDP                  .     18.2-    24.9    23.5                p        of enn
Gross domestic saving/GDP                      .  n29.0       I1.      16.7:1
Gross natnal savings/GDP                      .      X265     W18.0    16.6
Current acoount balance/GDP                   .      .1.7      4.6    -1.0
Interest paymentsGDP                          .      2.1      21.5      1.2     Savings                     Invesbment
Total debt/GOP                                ..    46.9:.    35.9    30.3                  -         -
Total debtservlcel-xporls                          : 17        11.7:    74A;
Present value of deb/GDP                      ,        .      304:
Present value of deWexports                   .        .     102.6                          l  btnr
1978-66   198s-1    196 *     1996  199706
(aversae annual growth)                                                             -     Poland
GDP                                 0Q7      10. 10: ;:Stti 704   :: :  :6. io  :E        .01,  I:
GO         0.7      ; A     - ;       t; :       ^ i         g C: 1.1  7.0  6.0  5.U  ___ A O   IUpper-middle-income group
GNP per caplta                     -0.1     4.6-L,  8.3                 4.8 :
Expots of goods and services       13.8     8.1      184i    9.7    .9.0               __                  _ 9.0V_:___  _  _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1988      1995    1996
(% of GDP)                                                                      Growth rts of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                         14.5        6.6             40 -
Industry                                            51.0      34.1       1.0.
Manufacturing                                                21.0              0o
Services                                            34.4      59.3        .      2 .3    tH   ss   #
Private consumption                                 61.8      63.7    66.0
General govemment consumption                        9.2      17.8    17.3               -     GD1  --GDP
Imports of goods and srvces                         16.9      24.8    27.4
1976-66  19866-      1995    1996
(avage annual growth)                                                           Growth rte of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                                    11.6     2.5      so -
Industry                                             0.4       9.5      6.8      2                                o
Manufcturing                                                 12.6      9.9     2
Services                                             2.2        4.4     4.7      so
Prvate consumption                          -1. 1    1.5       4.5      8.2      0
Generalgovernmentconsumption                25        2.5       2.9     2.0         /    1   t;2   93   94   05   go
Gross domestic Investment                   -1.3      1.6      27.6    21.6 e
Imports of goods and  rvIces                -2.7     10.3      22.7    25.2                    r     - m r
Gross natonal product                        0.8      1.5       8.4     6.4
Note: 1 99 data are preliminary esimats. Figures In itlifcs are for years otetr than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indcators In the country (in bold) compared with S income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Icomplete.



Poland
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995      1996
Domestic prices                                                                     Inflaon (%)
(% change)                                                                          soo
Consumer prices                                2.3     11.8       27.8     19.9    400
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..    15.8        27.0     20.0    300 -
200-
Government finance                                                                  100
(% of GDP)                                                                           0
Current revenue                                 ..       ..       46.6     45.2             01   02   93   04   05   00
Current budget balance                           ..      ..        0.0     -1.2                    GDP def. -O--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..       -1.9     -2.8
TRADE
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                      Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ..              22,895   24,440     40,ozo
Coal, lignite and peat                                         1,231        .      35,000
Cooper excd. cement cooper                                     1,006        ...    30 ozO
Manufactures                                                  15,913   17,404      2500-
Total imports (cif)                             ..              29,050   37,137      20,000
Food255                                                                 339         500
Fuel and energy                                                4,68      12        1000
Capital goods                                  .        ..     8.687   12,261
Exportpriceindex(1990=100)                      ..       ..       116       113            90  01  a2  03  94   0   0
Importpriceindex(1990=100)                      ..       ..       105       105                   Er       0mImors
Terms of trade (1990=100)                       ..       ..       110       108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Current account balance to GOP ratlo (%)
Exports of goods and services1                   ..  11,778    33,822   34,956
Imports of goods and services                   ..  11,209    27,745   36,166       5
Resource balance                                ..      569      6,077   -1,210     4
Net income                                      ..  -2,557        -628     -366
Net current transfers                            .      778         6      224      2
Current account balance, °
before official capital transfers              ..  -1,210      5,455   -1,352          90   0    092   0         95
Financing items (net)                           ..      974      4,170    5,268
Changes in net reserves                         ..      236    -9,625   -3,916    -4 -
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (mill. USS)               .    1,025    14,963   18,033
Conversion rate (IocalI4SM)                 0.0004     0.01        2.4      2.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..  33,307    42,291   40,889
IBRD                                          ..        0     2,067    2,175                       G    A
IDA                                           ..        0         0        0               F      206  2067
Total debt service                               ..   2,045      4,069    3,783             9853
IBRD                                          ..        0       152      344
IDA                                           ..        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               ..        0      3,402
Official creditors                            ..      693        -84     -760
Privatecreditors                              ..    -193        478      113                                   E
Foreign direct investment                     ..       15      3,659       *-                                30165
Portfolio equity                              ..        0       921
World Bank program
Commitments                                   ..        0         0      248       A - IBRD                    E - Bilaeral
Disbursements                                 ..        0       210      464       B - IDA    D- Othr multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          ..        0        19      197       C-IMF                       G-Short-term
Net fows                                      ..        0       191      266    1                                           |
Interest payments                             ..        0       133      147
Net transfers                                 ..        0        58      119
Development Economics                                                                                                 8/28/97
Note: Govemment finance represents general govemment accounts.
BoP exports of goods and services indude net unrecorded trade (approximately US$7.0 billion).



