                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35790

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-42640)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 200 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                                                 FOR AN

                             EMERGENCY FLOOD RECOVERY PROJECT




                                              June 15, 2006




Environmentlly and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective July 2005)

                           Currency Unit = PLN
                               PLN 3.42 = US$ 1
                                US$ 0.29 = PLN 1

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                           January 31    December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD        European Bak for Reconstruction and Development
EIB         European Investment Bank
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
EU-PHARE    European Union Assistance Program for Poland and Hungary
GIS         Georgraphic Informaiton System
GoP         Government of Poland
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IGiK        Institute of Geodesy and Cartography
ICR         Implementaiton Completion Report
IMGW        Institute of Meteorology and Water Management
MOE         Ministry of Environment
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MFR         Ministry of Flood Recovery
MTR         Mid-Term Review
NGO         Non Governmental Organization
NRMP        National Reconstruction and Modernization Program
OKI         Coordination and Information Center for Flood Management
ONDR        Office of Natural Disaster Recovery
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
RZGW        Regional Water Management Authority
SME         Small and Medium Enterprise
TA          Technical Assistance
TOR         Terms of Reference
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
USIDA       United States Trade and Development Agency



                          Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                        Country Director     Daniela Gressani
                         Sector Manager      Benoit P. Blarel
                      Task Team Leader       Masood Ahmad

                                             POLAND
                       EMERGENCY FLOOD RECOVERY PROJECT


                                           CONTENTS




                                                                                Page No.
  1. Project Data                                                                    1
  2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
  3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
  4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
  5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
  6. Sustainability                                                                15
  7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
  8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
  9. Partner Comments                                                              18
  10. Additional Information                                                       19
  Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
  Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
  Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
  Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
  Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
  Annex 8. Monitoring Forecasting and Warning System (SMOK)                        33
  Annex 9. Project Implementation Unit in Wroclow - Completion Report              39
Map(s) 34706

Project ID: P053796                                                  Project Name: POLAND FLOOD EMERGENCY
Team Leader: Masood Ahmad                                            TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 14, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: POLAND FLOOD EMERGENCY                                   L/C/TF Number: SCL-42640
   Country/Department: POLAND                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (45%); Housing construction (20%); General water,
                            sanitation and flood protection sector (16%); Roads and highways (12%); District heating and
                            energy efficiency services (7%)
                  Theme: Natural disaster management (P); Water resource management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/24/1997                                     Effective: 03/17/1998                03/17/1998
     Appraisal: 10/29/1997                                         MTR:                             12/06/1999
      Approval: 12/18/1997                                      Closing: 02/28/2001                 12/15/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Poland/Ministry of Finance; Government of Poland/Chancellery of
                                           Prime Minister; Government of Poland/Ministry of Interior and Administration
                      Other Partners:      Ministry of Environment

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Daniela Gressani                               Basil Kavalsky
Sector Director:                Benoit Blarel                                  Kevin Cleaver
Team Leader at ICR:             Masood Ahmad                                   Piotr Wilczynski
ICR Primary Author:             Mahwash Wasiq; Barbara
                                Letachowicz


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The two principal objectives of the Project were to assist the Government of Poland in restoring basic
infrastructure in municipalities and rural areas affected by the 1997 flood by repairing structures and
facilities of economic importance, and restoring lifeline facilities and services; and reducing vulnerability
and risk of future flooding through strengthening and modernizing flood management system. The project
constituted a major response to the unprecedented flood of 1997, the largest that Poland experienced over
two centuries.    The 1997 flood resulted in inundation of an area of 650 km2 in three voivodships
(administrative regions) of Slaski (Silesia), Opolskie and Dolnoslaskie (Lower Silesia) damaging 37,000
buildings, 866 bridges, over 2,000 km of roads and 129 km of dikes. The estimated damages were about
PLN 8.5 billion. It caused the loss of 54 lives; flooding of some 700,000 households, while about 110,000
people had to be evacuated. Given the extent of the flood damages, the recovery efforts were a true
challenge for the government. Therefore, extensive financial support was mobilized internationally by
various donors. The World Bank in turn led coordination of the flood recovery efforts and also provided
USD 200 million through the Emergency Flood Recovery Project (EFRP). The Bank response was
appropriate and swift, the Project was prepared in a record time.

Given the emergency nature of the project, it was not listed in the CAS explicitly, nevertheless, it supported
the CAS goal to sustain private sector growth, especially in the area of increased private sector
participation in infrastructure development, by engaging local vendors, contractors and technical service
providers to implement infrastructure rehabilitation and restoration. In addition, the project supported the
CAS goal of environmental and social sustainability of reforms by repairing public/communal
environmental infrastructure and basic infrastructure necessary for economic activities.

The development objectives were appropriate. The innovative feature of the project was that unlike usual
emergency recovery projects it also included elements for reducing vulnerability due to future floods.
Considering the recurrence of extreme floods in Poland it was vital to reduce vulnerability due to future
floods. Thus incorporating measures to improve the overall flood forecasting, warning and management
system in the country, and institutional capacity for better flood management in emergency operation
proved profoundly beneficial for Poland. Among other things, this work led to development of a flood
protection program for the Odra River Basin.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was to support the Government of Poland's strategic program of National Reconstruction and
Modernization (NRMP) prepared in response to the 1997 food. The program consisted of implementation
of immediate, mid range and long term activities aimed at restoration of damaged areas and facilities and
development of an advanced early warning system against natural disasters. The project was designed to
support elements of the medium and long term priorities. The project components are as follows:

A. MUNICIPAL & RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE (US$267.7 million planned vs US$295 million
actual).

The component was to support enabling basic and normal level of operation of water supply, wastewater
treatment, waste management and transportation system, district heating and public and commercial
buildings in the target region, and thereby improving health, safety and environmental conditions of the



                                                    - 2 -

affected population.    Under the component, it was planned to restore water supply, sewerage, drainage,
and solid waste facilities; local roads and bridges; district heating and gas system; and communal housing
and public buildings. At project appraisal, about 74 water supply projects, 86 sewerage projects and 8
solid waste disposal projects were identified. In addition, a number of road rehabilitation projects, heating
and gas systems repair and a number of communal housing projects were identified. Proposed subprojects
were to be co-financed by other donors, and most importantly by the local gminas (municipalities).
Furthermore, necessary technical assistance in areas of procurement and contract management,
construction design and supervision was to be provided to the municipal and gmina level administrations,
as they were the principle implementers under this component. In addition, the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) was also to provide the necessary oversight and supervision of this component.

B. FLOOD MANAGEMENT AND HAZARD REDUCTION (US$227.5 million vs US$ 226.3 million)

The objective of this component was to improve the existing flood management system, to reduce risk of
flood hazard and vulnerability, and reduce the economic cost to the central and local governments from
future floods. The component was to focus on flood management problems of the middle and upper Odra
River Basin and the upper Vistula River basin. The component was designed to strengthen sustainable
long-term flood hazard reduction and management and to support investments in the rehabilitation,
modernization and expansion of flood protection infrastructure. The component had the four following
subcomponents:

B1.      BASIN FLOOD MANAGEMENT PLANNING (USD19.4 million vs $17.8 million).                             This
subcomponent was to support (i) the updating and development of new basin management strategies and
plans with emphasis on economic assessment of flood hazard, formulation of alternatives for different level
of protection, including both structural and not structural options; (ii) compiling of up-to-date digital
terrain model (DTM) and data base to support hydrologic and hydraulic modeling and flood plain
management in the Project basin area and development and use of advanced GIS and remote sensing data to
support planning and modeling in the Project basin area; and (iii) procuring and installing of computer
equipment and software for simulation and forecasting models required for strategic and contingency
planning during flood in the responsible basin planning and operational agencies, and establishment of
flood information centers (OKIs).

B2.      MONITORING, FORECASTING & WARNING (USD71.0 million vs $62.13 million).                          This
subcomponent was to upgrade and modernize the flood forecasting and warning system of the country.
This involved installation of: (i) an automatic network of hydrological and meteorological measuring
stations that is not vulnerable to disruption by floods; (ii) the acquisition and use of modern meteorological
forecasting models and related computer equipment; (iii) a secure system of data transmission, receiving,
processing and storage; and (iv) information systems, models and specific programs to put this system into
operation in collaboration with regional river basin agencies and local authorities.

B3.      INVESTMENT IN FLOOD PROTECTION INFRASRUCTURE (US$126.3 million vs
US$141.93). The aim of this sub-component was to invest in the rehabilitation and modernization of high
priority flood protection infrastructure including reconstruction and modernization of dikes, embankments
and levees. This component was financed in parallel by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the
Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB).

B4.      FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION AND PREVENTION (USD10.9 million vs US$4.43 million).
This subcomponent was to focus mainly on emergency response and recovery, flood preparedness, public
awareness and participation and training in areas subject to recurrent floods loss and substantive damage.


                                                     - 3 -

Three main activities were implemented under this subcomponent including: (i) development of detailed
flood preparedness and response plans at the pilot voivoship and gmina level together with manuals and
training; (ii) feasibility study for flood insurance program; and (iii) expansion of pilot activity to cover
additional areas based on lessons learned from the pilot activity.

C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (US$3.0 million vs US$3.12 million)

Under this component, the overall project implementation was to be managed and coordinated with various
implementing agencies under the auspices of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) under the Office of
Natural Disaster Recovery (ONDR), then known as Office of the Minister of Flood Recovery (MFR).
PCU was to coordinate and supervise procurement, disbursement, financial management, and other
administrative services related to project implementation management.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised during project implementation. However there were some minor shifts in
the emphasis of some of the activities of the project, and as a result, funds under various components were
either slightly under or overused. But the main activities under each component and subcomponent were
implemented.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated Satisfactory.     The project objectives were consistent with the government
priorities and met the critical needs of people affected by the 1997 floods; in addition, it was supportive of
the CAS goals. The project design was based on lessons learned from previous projects in Poland and
Bank assisted emergency recovery projects worldwide.          Given the emergency nature of the project,
preparation was done with participation of a few individual consultants assisting the Bank team with close
cooperation with the government and stakeholders in a relatively short period of time, in about three
months. Given the limited time for preparation, detailed design of both emergency and non-emergency
components of the project were prepared during project implementation.

For restoration and recovery works under Component A, the criteria developed for selection of the
subprojects and a set of broad categories of subprojects were defined. Accordingly, at the appraisal stage,
about 615 subprojects were identified. The detailed technical designs of each subproject were developed
during project implementation. Agreed selection criteria were subsequently used for including additional
subprojects under that component.

As for preparation of component B, the involved implementing agencies had prepared preliminary working
papers that in part formed the basis for the project design. These working papers were prepared after a
series of consultations held with various donors. While the project team at appraisal was of the view that
the implementing agencies and Poland had sufficient technical expertise to prepare the technical design of
the project, because of the short time available to initiate the project and the complex technical issues
involved in such an extensive modernization of the existing system, a special fund was established under
the project to be used during the startup period by each implementing agency to recruit international and
Polish expertise to prepare detailed design of the project.

The original closing date for the project was February 28, 2002 (based on project completion date of
August 2001, it was mistakenly entered into the system as February 28, 2001), coinciding with the limited
three year implementation period for emergency operations.             Although the emergency component
(component A) of the project was completed during the assigned three year period, component B,
addressing reduction of risk and vulnerability to future floods could not have been completed during such a
period, therefore the loan was extended to accommodate both proper preparation and subsequent



                                                     - 4 -

implementation of this component. Given the multidimensional nature of addressing flood risks, the
technical complexity of individual tasks and involvement of numerous implementation agencies, detailed
design and implementation of the component needed much more time.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The project has achieved its objectives because it has
contributed to (i) restoration of municipal and rural infrastructure affected by the 1997 flood; and (ii)
reduction of risk and vulnerability to future floods through modernization and expansion of flood
management system in the country. Poland's flood forecasting and warning system is one of the most
modern in the world now. The project also supported a feasibility study for flood protection in the Odra
River Basin that led to development of the Odra River Basin Flood Protection (ORFP) Project to be
financed by GOP, the Bank, Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB) and the EU-Cohesion Fund. In
addition, with development of ORFP, the project has contributed to flood protection in the Odra River
Basin.

As a result of the 1997 flood, the estimated total damages in the Odra River Basin were about PLN 8.5
billion (US$ 2.3 billion), and loss of 54 lives. The recovery and restoration efforts were financed by the
government, the World Bank and many other development partners. Parallel financing was provided by the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), European Investment Bank (EIB) and CEB.
The objective related to restoration of municipal and rural infrastructure was fully achieved under
component A. Restoration efforts included repair/reconstruction of infrastructure such as water supply,
waste water collection and treatment systems, landfills, local roads and bridges, district heating and gas
networks, communal housing and public facilities such as schools and hospitals. Restoration of the
municipal and rural infrastructure exceeded the scope of works identified during project preparation.
Similarly, the objective related to reduction of risk and vulnerability to future floods was achieved through
modernization of the overall flood management system in the country. As a result of the project, today
Poland is equipped with one of the most sophisticated weather and flood forecasting, warning and
monitoring systems in the world. Under the new system, hydrological and meteorological data and other
parameters are collected and transferred automatically to be processed with the help of supercomputers and
advanced hydrological and meteorological forecasting models developed under the project. The forecasts
with the help of modern state of the art technologies are then provided to the end users/clients, including the
state administration, commercial users, aviation, maritime, water management facilities and authorities,
agriculture, local authorities and the public through client connection and IMGW webpage. In addition,
historical and up to date data is provided to the crisis management centers and Coordination & Information
Centers for Flood Management (OKI) to give early warning to the relevant organizations, local authorities
and the public to prepare adequate response in extreme weather situations in order to protect life and
property, as well as the economy. Under the project, three OKIs were established one in the city of
Krakow, for the upper Vistula river basin, in Gliwice for the upper Odra and in Wroclaw for the middle
Odra river basin to improve flood management capacity at the local level. In addition, for strengthening of
flood management capacity, supporting tools such as rivers cross sections, digital terrain models and digital
topographic maps used for flood waves modeling and identification of inundation areas with various flood
frequencies were developed. Under the project, all the Regional Water Management Authorities (RZGWs)
in the country were provided with unified computerized GIS hardware and software tools. Finally, the
concept of a "basin approach" for water management, consistent with EU Water and Environmental
Directive, was strengthened under the project in developing the program for flood protection for the Odra
River basin.




                                                      - 5 -

The overall economic benefits of the project include restoration of economic activities in the flood affected
areas by rehabilitation of basic infrastructure, facilities and services crucial for resumption of those
activities. In addition, the project had contributed to reducing vulnerability to future floods by developing a
modern flood monitoring, forecasting and warning system designed to minimize flood risk and the
associated damages to future floods. It is important to note, that it would take some time to fully realize
the benefits of modernizing the flood warning system. Actually, a comprehensive study is required to
assess how the new system has improved the weather and flood warning in the country and to estimate the
economic benefits of better forecasting. Such a study is underway by the government. However, limited
measurable indicators demonstrate the efficiency of the modern system in such areas as improved lead time
and accuracy of weather forecasting. For example, the reliability of forecasting minimum and maximum
temperatures increased from 79% to 83% and 88% to 90% respectively after system upgrade in 2004.
This accuracy is to further increase with integration of various systems and improved capacity of the staff
working with the modern system.          Similarly, a much larger range of information on basic weather
parameters can be collected, processed, analyzed, and weather forecasts can now be prepared 78 hours in
advance, while previously they could be prepared only 48 hours in advance. Moreover, with the new
system of lightening detection, it is now possible to determine the point of lightning strike between 500 m
and 1000 m accuracy, thereby facilitating the prompt location of power line damages - forest fire and other
material losses caused by thunderstorms, and to determine the electric condition of the atmosphere, thus
making it possible to forecast the probability of lightning strike.  To illustrate the economic gains from a
modern, efficient and reliable forecasting system similar to the one established in Poland, Annex 3 presents
the economic benefits of such system in other countries, especially the United States as it relates to the
forecasting of the El Niño.

In addition, an evaluation of subcomponent B4 carried out during implementation indicates that as a result
of the repair/modernization and upgrade of the existing flood protection systems and structures, increased
confidence of the society in their safety and protection was observed, and it was also noted that residents
feel safer where flood defense units have been established and or enhanced.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The component outputs were fully realized. The details by component are presented below:

Component A: Municipal and Rural Infrastructure.

The output under this component is satisfactory. Restoration and reconstruction of the following general
facilities were carried out: water supply and waste water collection and treatment systems, landfills, local
roads and bridges, district heating and gas networks, communal housing and public facilities as schools and
hospitals. Selection of the subprojects was to be done based on the agreed criteria. Eligible sub-projects
covered only repair/reconstruction of infrastructure located within the Odra river basin and in communities
which suffered inundation of more than 25% of their territory. Among those eligible, sub-projects of the
highest priority such as those associated with prevention of health risks, economic and social importance to
the communities, lifeline services and priorities or repairs needed before winter season were selected.     A
total amount of US$267.7 million equivalent was allocated for this component. At the time of appraisal
only 615 subprojects were identified with very rough cost estimates and included in the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) to be financed by all donors. Early during implementation some projects were
dropped (by Gminas about 65 subprojects) and some were added (about 57) making a firm list of 607
subprojects. The Government also identified about 142 additional subprojects consisting of two lists (86
and 56 so called list prim and list bis respectively) to be included depending upon the availability of funds.
It was expected that a number of subprojects would be financed by the other donors.




                                                      - 6 -

In the end Bank financing was involved in 881 subprojects in six voivodships and 185 gminas
(municipalities) and powiats (counties) listed in the table below. The total cost of the completed works is
estimated around PLN 812.4 million, US$202.4 million equivalent (using the exchange rate as of the
component closing date, February 28, 2002) and US$216 million using the average exchange rate during
implementation. About US$110.0 million were disbursed from the Bank loan for this component while the
remaining funds were provided primarily by the Gminas.

Reconstruction of damaged urban and rural infrastructure exceeded the scope of works identified and
included during project appraisal. Total number of projects with breakdown by project type is given in a
table below:

    Type of sub                                  Voivodship                             Total
    project           Dolnoslas Lubuskie     Malopolskie  Opolskie  Slaskie   Wielkop
                      kie                                                     olskie
    Water Supply         49         19            3           27       10        1       109
    Waste Water          42         1             -           14       47        -       104
    Treatment
    systems
    Roads and            204        26            8           57       63        4       362
    Bridges
    District Heating     25         1             1           3         6        -        36
    Solid Waste          20         -             -           2         -        -        22
    Multiple family       4         -             1           3         1        -        9
    Houses
    Public Facility      136        7             2           60       34        -       239
    Total-               480        54           15          166       161       5       881
    subprojects
    Total Cost of       543.5      40.5          3.2         124      98.9      2.3     812.4
    Subprojects
    (PLN Millions)
    US$ Millions        135.2      10.2          0.8         31.1     24.5      0.6     202.4



In addition to Bank financed projects, several sub-projects were funded by other donors, the EBRD being
the largest financier. EBRD among other subprojects financed the rehabilitation of infrastructure in the city
of Wroclaw. Full information regarding the financing by other donors is not available to the ICR team.
However, the team estimates that total financing for rehabilitation of municipal and rural infrastructure by
all donors and Government (including Gminas) is about US$295 million exceeding the original allocation
of US$267.7 million made at the time of project appraisal.

Wroclaw Municipal Infrastructure Restoration. EBRD provided a loan of EURO 16 million to finance
about 44% of total rehabilitation works and restoration of municipal transport services in the city of
Wroclaw. This included rehabilitation of 27.6 km of tram tracks located in the main streets of Wroclaw,
associated works such as bridges and pavement reconstruction and power systems, rehabilitation of bus
and tram depots, and rehabilitation of 5 rectifier stations. The estimated total cost of these works was
US$37.36 million equivalent.

Component B: Flood management and Hazard Reduction.

The output under this component and associated subcomponents is satisfactory.            Output of various
subcomponents is presented below:




                                                     - 7 -

B1.    Basin Flood Management Planning.               Under this subcomponent, the following tasks were
implemented:

Updating of Basin Management Strategies and Plans. The task was to support preparation of basin
management strategies for the Odra and Vistula basins, and it was partially completed. After the 1997
flood, the government of Poland prepared the "Oder 2006 Program"which formed the basis of the flood
management strategy in the Odra river basin. In the year 2000, the World Bank studied the plan and
accepted it as the strategy for Odra River Basin. The strategy formed the basis for preparing the Odra
River Basin Flood Protection Project (OFRP).          A similar strategy for the Vistula river basin was not
prepared.    Although some priorities including feasibility studies for flood retention reservoirs were
identified, but this task was never finalized primarily because of frequent changes in the management of the
responsible RZGW in Krakow.

Establishment of Flood Information and Management Centers (OKI). The subcomponent supported
enhancement of local flood management capacity by compiling a database including river cross sections,
digital terrain model (DTM), and advanced GIS and remote sensing data to enable introduction,
development and use of hydrological and hydraulic modeling of flood plane for planning and management
purposes in the basin. Three regional coordination and information centers for flood management (OKIs)
were established under the project. Originally only two of such centers in Krakow and Wroclaw were
planned; however, establishment of the center in Gliwice was added during project implementation given
the significance of the upper Odra river basin in flood management and protection. This information was
used to develop flood hazard maps and modeling of flood waves through the river valleys and areas that
may be flooded due to floods of various return periods. Thus building capacity for warning and evacuation
of potentially flood affected areas and management of floods and preparation of flood protection measures.

While most of the tasks under this subcomponent were implemented without any problems, the preparation
of DTM was delayed resulting in some delays in the OKI task which depended upon the input from the
DTM task. The DTM task experienced problems at the tendering stage. Subsequently, implementation of
the task was transferred to another implementing agency. In addition, the quality of products from the
contractor was questioned by the land surveying company hired to perform quality check. However, in the
end, all products were accepted by the employer (RZGW Krakow).

An additional task was included in the project in 2002 to enhance institutional capacity of all RZGWs in
flood information, planning, coordination and management. Given the importance of this activity, at a cost
of USD 3.0 million, all RZGWs were equipped with the latest information technology (IT) equipment and
software. This technology upgrade helped RZGWs to meet the requirements under the new Polish Water
Law and also enabled all RZGWs in the country to become compatible with flood management
dissemination systems of the OKIs.

Sub-component B2. Hydrological and Meteorological Monitoring, Forecasting and Warning System.
This subcomponent was the largest under component B costing around USD62.1 million.                     The
implementing agency for this subcomponent was the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management
(IMGW), a semi-independent legal entity reporting to the Ministry of Environment. To achieve precision
and efficiency in forecasting, a Monitoring, Forecasting and Warning System (SMOK) was designed with
several sub-systems for gathering data from all over the country and transmission to the weather forecast
centers, development of forecasts using the supercomputers and advanced models and dissemination of the
forecasts. These systems are described briefly below and Annex 8 gives a detailed description.




                                                      - 8 -

I. Measurement Networks and Data Collection

Telemetric hydrological and meteorological monitoring networks. Close to 1000 remote stations were
built all over the country at essential locations to provide appropriate hydro-meteorological forecasting.
The measurement data transmission system is based on radio communication (44 radio transmitters) in the
southern part of Poland and in the other parts of the country, it is based on GPRS. In addition, 30 Data
Collection Stations (DCS) and 7 Regional Branch Offices (RBO) were established, and servers were
installed with necessary software for measurement data acquisition, processing and distribution.

Lightning monitoring system. A new lightning detection system was built to provide valuable and needed
information on formation and development of thunderstorms. With the new system, it is now possible to: (i)
determine the point of lightning strike with between 500 m and 1000 m accuracy, thereby facilitating
prompt location of power line damages - forest fire and other material losses caused by thunderstorms; and
(ii) determine the electric condition of the atmosphere, thus allowing to forecast the probability of lightning
strike with up to few hours accuracy. All IMGW forecasting offices were equipped with system terminals
with full analytical functionality; and data transmission.      The system is also used for research and
development work.

Enhancement of the Weather Radar System POLRAD. A network of 8 weather radars was installed to
enhance the quality of forecasting hazardous weather, especially rainfall and strong winds, including
assessment of precipitation intensity, continuous monitoring of cloud formation and weather fronts in the
country. With the future access to data from Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovak Republic radars, and
European CERAD network, the system will allow detection of dangerous atmospheric phenomena with
greater advance than before.

Installation and Implementation of the Upper-air Sounding System with Hydrogen Generators. Complete
systems for vertical upper air sounding have been implemented in three cities. The existing infrastructure
has been adapted to conduct routine, continual upper air sounding in line with safety regulations in the
country.

Equipment for the measurement and maintenance teams. A new measurement technology was introduced
including upgrade of the Mobile Measurement Sets, and the IMGW Central Measurement and Control
Laboratory was modernized giving the possibility of accrediting the equipment used in the
hydro-meteorological service.

II. Data Transmission, Processing, Analyzing and Preparation of Forecasts

Upgrade of the telecommunication and Information Technology System; Development of Client Service
System. The telecommunication network of IMGW was upgraded to efficiently receive hydro-met data and
information and to timely distribute it to various systems within IMGW and to the external users through
the "Client Service System" established under this task. In addition, the necessary equipment and software
was provided and the staff and clients were trained in the use and operation of new system. Also, the
system has enabled access to the results of the mathematical and meteorological and hydrology models as
well as full fledged connection to the external data processing centers. Introduction of an up-to-date
telecommunications and information technology infrastructure including increased capacity of the lines
used resulted in accelerated and more robust data transmission both within the IMGW units and between
IMGW and external users.

Upgrade of data transmission and processing systems at the Forecasting Offices and Airport


                                                    - 9 -

Meteorological Offices. This task introduced a new system for preparing forecasts which gave each
forecaster in all forecasting and airport meteorological offices access to the full range of observational and
forecasting data that is necessary for the preparation of forecasts and warning process. Before the new
system, this activity was done centrally, as neither the forecasting offices had access to the observation
data, nor had the necessary capability to manipulate and analyze the data to prepare short-term forecasts.
In addition, before 2002, the reliability of short-term weather forecasts for Poland generated in the Central
Office of Meteorological Forecasting for the minimal temperature was about 79%, and for maximal
temperature 88%. In 2004 the reliability of these forecasts was respectively 83% and 90%. Some work is
being conducted on the methodology of forecast generation so as to obtain even higher accuracy of the
short-term forecasts.

Introduction of meteorological forecasting model into operating practice. Two new non-hydrostatic
numerical forecasting models with a high time and spatial resolution were put into operating practice; they
enable the system to : (i) receive and process a large range of information on basic weather parameters, and
can forecast the weather 78 hours in advance, including precipitation quantitative forecast, in a grid system
covering a significant part of Europe; (ii) provide their results to the other models, such as hydrological
models or pollution transport models; and (iii) they can be calculated twice per day, using data from
automatic measurement network. The calculations of the models are done with the help of supercomputers
provided under the project.

Upgrade of the hydrological Monitoring, Forecasting and Warning system. A system of hydrology and a
modeling platform was developed to enable collection, processing (including analysis and verification) and
distribution of hydro-met data as well as connection to the data base system by integration of the database
with the hydrological and hydraulic models working in operational mode. The Modeling Platform is used
for preparing forecasts as well as for further analysis. The Modeling Platform integrates the hydro-met
database with models of precipitation ­ runoff, wave transformation in a river bed and the operation of
hydro-technical facilities. Preparation of data for calibration of the modeling platform allowed converting a
large amount of historical data from analogue into digital form. In addition, with the introduction of the
new system, the hydrological forecasting offices were equipped with additional hardware and specialized
software, and staff working in the hydrological forecasting offices was trained in the use and operation of
the new system.

Sub-component B3. Investment in Flood Protection Infrastructure financed through the European
Investment Bank and the Council of Europe Development Bank.                   This sub-component helped to
increase safety and standards of living for the inhabitants of the regions by providing better flood protection
measures, and rehabilitation/modernization of social infrastructure such as public roads, river
embankments, hydraulic structures and facilities and public healthcare facilities. As mentioned before, EIB
and CEB financed this component which comprised of repairs, reconstruction and modernization of flood
preventive infrastructure including embankments, levees, channels/river beds, access roads and
accompanying hydraulic structures. Most of these works were completed. The ICR team estimates that
total expenditures under this component were about US$142 million. CEB has prepared a separate
completion report for works implemented under this component using CEB financing.

Sub-component B4 Flood Hazard Prevention and Reduction.

Flood Risk Reduction Planning (FRRP), implementation of FRRPs and expansion of the pilot tested
program to other municipalities. The main activity was to strengthen capacity of gminas and voivodships
in developing flood preparedness response plans and preparation of appropriate manuals and training for
execution before the floods, during the floods and after the floods.    The activity was implemented in two


                                                      - 10 -

stages: the first stage focused on development of local flood management and prevention plans,
identification of local laws to be adopted to enable plans implementation, economic initiatives, and
educational activities necessary to make the plans operational. These activities were implemented by the
local governments and residents with the support of consultants (Technical Support Units) in four
municipalities: two in the Vistula river basin, and two in the Odra river basin. Relevant training on the role
of media, psychological and sociological aspects of flood crisis in communities, post-disaster psychology
treatment, and emergency help models were made available to the participants. The second stage of the
activity provided co-financing for reconstruction of hydraulic structures, such as culverts, purchase and
installation of water gauges, equipment for communication, warning and alarming, instructions for
residents, shields to mark flood plains and equipment for evacuation centers to 8 municipalities. In
addition, flood hazard prevention plans for 12 pilots in four gminas were developed.

Originally, flood hazard maps for this component were to be developed using output of the DTM produced
under B1. But with delays in implementation of the DTM contract, flood hazard and zoning maps were
prepared with the help of historical flood data available to local coordinating teams. All FRRPs along with
functional attachments were adopted by municipalities after extensive discussions with local communities.
At the second stage, purchase of emergency equipment and some small scale structural measures were
carried out and flood hazard prevention plans for 3 powiats and five gminas have been developed. In
addition, experiences gained from the activities were translated into a manual on "development of flood risk
reduction methodology" which was broadly distributed by the Project.

Flood Hazard Insurance Study. The Flood Hazard Insurance Study planned under this component was
cancelled due to contractual and delivery issues with the contractor. Efforts were made to restart this study
but there was not much demand for it from the Government side, particularly, due to unforeseen conditions
in the sector after Poland's accession to EU. With Poland becoming a member of the EU and revamping
most of its laws and regulations such a study would be useful in modernizing its flood management
practices in line with the European customs. The ONDR may undertake such a study in future in this new
context with properly defined terms of reference and a qualified team of consultants.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable. See Annex 3 for benefits of modernizing weather and flood forecasting system.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was high as capacity of all involved institutions, government
and non-government agencies and entities, and communities was enhanced although the project did not have
an explicit objective in institutional capacity building. Creation of the Office of Natural Disaster Recovery
in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister to oversee the flood recovery and protection systems, creation of
crisis management centers within each voivodship, modernization of the flood forecasting, monitoring and
warning system; creation of community level flood risk reduction planning and management should all
ensure that Poland is better prepared to cope with extreme flood events in the future.              Details of
institutional development impact of the project are given below in the context of project components.

Under component A, all rehabilitation and reconstruction works were co-financed by the municipalities
involved, therefore, identification of works, preparation of specifications, preparation of bidding documents
and implementation of tendering procedures, including contract award, supervision and financial
management were done with direct participation of the local government/municipalities. Under the project,



                                                      - 11 -

three international consulting firms were recruited to assist the municipalities in preparation of the bidding
documents, award, supervision and financial management of all contracts. In addition, there is significant
evidence of institutional strengthening of local design consulting and the contracting sectors not only in
terms of considerable employment generation but also in the introduction of open tendering procedures and
new contract supervision practiced under World Bank and EU loans and grants. The group of consultants
recruited by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to manage the activities under this component also gained
substantial experience in project preparation and contract management and most of them are now working
in fields where EU funds are being used for preparation and implementation of various investment projects.


The project institutional building impact under component B was very high. Institutional capacity of the
participating RZGWs was strengthened in flood information, planning, coordination and management
through introduction of new technologies, and technical training. In particular, establishment of the OKIs,
in Krakow, for the upper Vistula river basin, in Gliwice for the upper Odra and in Wroclaw for the middle
Odra river basin, with development of the supporting tools such as rivers cross sections, DTMs and flood
forecasting and planning models, and flood hazard maps provided the RZGWs with the necessary
capabilities in flood management and warning that they lacked before.             In addition, the project has
contributed to the overall institutional development of all RZGWs in Poland, as all RZGWs were equipped
with the latest information technology equipment and software, including GIS tools. This technology
upgrade also helped RZGWs to meet requirements under the new Polish Water Law, and the task enabled
all RZGWs in the country to become compatible with flood management dissemination systems of those of
the OKIs.    Moreover, the two RZGWs in the cities of Raciborz and Wroclaw became involved in
preparation of the feasibility study for flood protection in the Odra river basin, including feasibility studies
for Raciborz Dry Polder and modernization of the Wroclaw Floodway System with the assistance of an
international consulting firm. The result of this activity was the preparation of a flood protection project
for an amount of Euro 500 million. This has provided the RZGWs with considerable experience in
preparation of such projects at a level that can be financed by international financial institutions. In
addition, the subcomponent B4 had a considerable impact in capacity building of the local governments and
local flood prevention organizations, the participating communities in preparation and implementation of
Flood Risk Reduction Planning.

Institutional development impact was particularly high for IMGW, as the project provided an overall
upgrade of all systems for a modern and efficient hydro-meteorological monitoring, forecasting, and
warning. During implementation of this subcomponent, over 500 staff at the institute were trained in the
use of the new technology and operation of the new systems. The training took place both internationally
and in Poland. In addition, the users of the information produced by the institute and distributed through
their Client Service System were also trained in the use of the new system. Aside from technical and
operational capacity enhancement, the institute gained substantial experience in procurement contract
management and financial management, including preparation of bidding documents, contract award and
supervision, especially given the size of the investment, number of contracts and complexity of
modernization. In addition, the project gave the institute visibility in the international arena, and as a result,
other countries inspired to upgrade their forecasting system have visited the facilities of the institute and
have hired several staff as consultants to advise them on upgrade of their systems. Furthermore, with
current capabilities for forecasting, the institute is able to exchange hydro-meteorological information
regionally and with WMO, as it is capable of forecasting the weather outside its borders in Europe.

Finally, the project has contributed to institutional strengthening of ONDR in areas of flood risk assessment
methodologies and cost benefit analysis of flood risks in development of flood management policies for a
modern flood management in the country.


                                                      - 12 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There have been no significant externalities outside the control of the government or implementing agency
that affected project implementation

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There have been no significant externalities outside the control of the government or implementing agency
that affected project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Project implementation has been satisfactory.         However, at the beginning, project implementation
experienced considerable delays, given the number of institutions involved in project implementation and
the inability of the public institutions in Poland to work well together. In fact from project effectiveness
from March 1998 to late 1999 not much was implemented under the project, especially under component
B. In addition to the lack of public sector cooperation, lack of initial project design in terms of contract
packaging contributed to these initial delays. However, as a result of later efforts by the Office of Natural
Disaster Recovery (ONDR) working as the coordinating agency and in close collaboration with the
Ministry of Finance, and regular meetings of the project Steering Committee, coordination at the top took
place and the implementation process was streamlined.

The other problems affecting implementation were the mechanisms for budget allocation, transfer of funds
and accounting for the disbursed funds from the Ministry of Finance to the implementing agencies. Funds
from the Special Account were transferred through the normal budgetary allocations from MOF to the
implementing agencies which took a very long time. The implementing agencies were making payments
and submitting expenditure statements accounting for the funds in order to receive additional funds.
Furthermore, at one point, there were several million dollars advanced to the implementing agencies. Upon
insistence of the supervision mission, the procedure was streamlined by on-time accounting of the disbursed
funds at the implementing agencies before additional funds could be advanced. Nevertheless, despite
considerable improvements at the implementing agency level, delays were experienced.            In particular,
considerable delays were experienced in payments to the international consulting firms, as their
expenditures were excessively scrutinized by the financial department of the Ministry of Environment and
the PCU. The excessive scrutiny of expenditures was mainly due to a general negative attitude towards
foreign contractors, especially consultants and partly because of the periodic inspection of the tax
authorities of foreign loans.

Despite being the main implementing agency, the Ministry of Environment (MOE) at the beginning of the
project did not play any significant role in project implementation. In particular, the MOE could have
played a more positive role in the decision making to speed up the preparation of the strategy for Vistula
River which was dropped for not very compelling reasons, and a more proactive role in the contracts that
experienced difficulties. However, at a later stage, the MOE took interest in resolving some of the
outstanding issues. Furthermore, the limited capacity of the implementing agencies in procurement and
contract management was never appreciated initially by the MOE, as provision of contract management
consultants was not supported in the beginning, resulting in some delays in implementation.

Finally, a three month long process of Internal Audit of the project by the Supreme Chamber of Audit
interrupted and impacted the implementation process, as the attention of the PCU and the implementing
agencies were diverted to provide information to the auditors, rather than to project implementation.


                                                     - 13 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Overall the PCU played a necessary and positive role in implementation of the project, performing its
coordination and oversight functions. The institutional structure for implementation and coordination
carried out by the PCU was especially seen as positive in the management of component A. However,
under component B, the implementing agencies saw PCU as yet another layer of bureaucracy adding to the
scrutiny and delays both in approval of procurement documents and in financial management. Initially
personality clashes between the implementing agencies and the PCU caused unnecessary delays and
problems. However, the working procedures were streamlined after initial difficulties and worked well
towards the end of the project. Generally, the PCU provided an excellent role/service in the overall
financial management of the project and the necessary checks in procurement.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project provided a framework for the program of flood damage recovery in which several development
partners participated. It is difficult to have accurate figures of total expenditures because of changing
exchange rates as funds were provided by different partners at different times in various currencies.
However, the bulk of the expenditures were in PLN. The ICR team has collected information in PLN and
equivalent amounts in USD and Euro currencies and converted to USD equivalent. Based on these
estimates the total cost of the reconstruction program is about US$524.5 million equivalent. Details are
provided in the table below.

Cost of Reconstruction Program and contributions by Donors (USD Million)

                         Financiers                Appraisal Estimates             Actual
                           IBRD                            200.00                  199.00
                            EIB                            117.90                   37.29
                        EU-PHARE                            25.20                   65.40
                          USAID                              3.00                    0.17
                           EBRD                             26.00                   16.00
                           SIDA                              2.00                    2.00
                           CEB                                -                     92.31
                 Gminas (Municipalities)                   103.00                   96.00
                  Government of Poland                      21.00                   16.24
                          TOTAL                             498.1                  524.45

Most of the funds from development partners were used for reconstruction of municipal and rural
infrastructure damage due to the floods. The CEB funding though expected was not envisaged at the start
of the project. CEB funds were used primarily for flood protection measures such as reconstruction of
embankments, and hydraulic infrastructure.

Cost and expenditures under the Bank loan are given in Annex 2. More than 50% of the Bank loan
(US$111.) million were used for Component A and the remaining amount for Components B and C. The
use of loan funds for B2 component for modernization of SMOK was higher than original estimates
(US$62.13 million against US$54.6 million) while a lesser amount was used in B4. The funds used for
component C were slightly higher than the original estimates because of extended duration of the project
and the addition of a category for incremental operating cost during the project implementation.




                                                    - 14 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Achievement of the principal development objective of the project, including restoration of municipal and
rural infrastructure affected by the 1997 flood; and reduction of risk and vulnerability to future floods
through modernization and expansion of flood management system in the country is likely to be sustained.

Financial Sustainability. The long-term sustainability of infrastructure and the effectiveness against
future floods depend upon continuous funding of maintenance works and the support of institutions
established to operate and maintain the systems. All facilities rehabilitated, reconstructed and restored
under the project have been transferred for operation and maintenance to the responsible organizations that
receive the appropriate budget allocations for their operations and maintenance. Therefore, financial
sustainability is not an issue.

However, operation and monitoring and maintenance of the various technical systems developed under the
project require an ongoing government financial commitment. In that respect, activities implemented under
subcomponent B1, B3, and B4 all have appropriate budget allocation for their financial sustainability.
Provision of adequate budget allocation for operation and maintenance of SMOK (B2) was an issue over
the last two years as the major parts of the system were becoming operational. However, the Ministry of
Finance has allocated a budget line to provide appropriate annual funds from the National Environmental
Fund, a semi independent agency with extra budgetary funds from the EU under the Ministry of
Environment.

Further, it appears that the attitude towards insurance coverage has not changed as a result of the floods.
Private property insurance is not obligatory and there is no evidence of take-up, as the premiums are
expensive and most people especially in the rural areas cannot afford them. Moreover, for a flood of the
magnitude of 1997, it is not clear that any insurance industry without government intervention could
survive or provide meaningful payout. However, provision of flood insurance would be helpful for
recurrent floods of lesser magnitude.

Technical Sustainability. With regards to technical sustainability of the project, the majority of the works
implemented under component A are simple, and design standards that were applied are well proven and
technically sustainable. However, the operation, maintenance and monitoring of the more complex and
highly technical works under component B would require technically competent operators to respond
properly to any unfolding disaster. As mentioned in sections above, sufficient technical skills have been
developed within the agencies to operate and manage the systems as evidenced from the running of the
systems so far. However, for further upgrades the agencies may need additional assistance which can be
mobilized as part of the modernization projects.

Institutional Sustainability. As for institutional sustainability, as discussed in Section 4.5, the Polish
government has strengthened the institutions involved in flood protection and management from the national
and regional water management institutions to the voivodship and local authorities, suggesting that
institutions are sustainable and sufficiently focused on flood protection. Preparation of the proposed Odra
Rive Basin Flood Protection Project had also contributed in institutional development of the involved
RZGW, preparing a project of such a size and complexity that can be presented to international financial
institutions for investment.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The rehabilitated infrastructure and systems are already being utilized. The flood forecasting and warning



                                                    - 15 -

system is operated by the IMGW which was the primary designer of the modernization program and was
intimately involved in systems upgrade and testing during implementation. There are no issues regarding
the transition of facilities to regulation operation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project preparation was satisfactory and actually crucial to the project's
success. The preparation team was competent and balanced, and covered the skills needed for successful
preparation. The team responded very quickly to the GoP's request for project preparation. Preparation
efforts were flexible with full participation of the client to ensure responsiveness to their needs. During
project preparation and appraisal the Bank took appropriate account of the adequacy of project design,
including technical, financial, and institutional, as well as procurement and financial management aspects.


7.2 Supervision:
The Bank performance during implementation of the project was Satisfactory. Sufficient budget and staff
resources were allocated, and the project was adequately supervised and closely monitored. The Bank
supervision was particularly instrumental in implementation startup of the component B that initially
suffered delays. In addition, the Bank was also responsive in getting part of the project related to flood
planning, forecasting and hazard reduction due to future floods (non-emergency recovery part) extended
appropriately to complete implementation of these works and to prepare the follow-up project i.e. ORFP.

Aide-memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted, flagging outstanding issues and underscoring
benchmarks for actions. These alerted the government and the implementing agencies to problems with
project execution and facilitated remedies in a timely manner. The Government was highly appreciative of
the Bank missions in both highlighting issues to the highest level and proposing solutions to address them
as well as in supporting government's efforts in resolving disputes with the contractors. The Project Status
Reports (PSRs) and the subsequent Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) realistically rated the
performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objective and implementation. The
Bank paid sufficient attention to the project's likely development impact. The quality of advice, the
follow-up on agreed actions were adequate. Loan covenants were complied with effectively.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
TThe Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory,with good project design backed by sound
supervision performance and follow up.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in preparation is considered satisfactory. Despite the emergency situation, the
number of development partners, and implementing agencies, and the short period available for
preparation, the government provided adequate support and worked closely with the Bank team in project
preparation. There was a central coordination office, namely ONDR, and the associated PCU, and together
with the Bank and teams of other partners, identified about 615 subproject to be implemented. They also
managed to provide the necessary financial assistance and guidance to the implementing agencies to begin
design of the non-emergency component of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government implementation performance was satisfactory, especially for the restoration and



                                                      - 16 -

reconstruction activities of the project.       It maintained its commitments consistently throughout
implementation.     The steering committee which was representing the implementing agencies and the
coordinating bodies through its regular monthly meetings provided the necessary oversight and guidance to
advance the implementation process. The committee was responsive for taking corrective implementation
measures and effective in dealing with outstanding issues. Appropriate levels of review and approval were
in place; financial accountability and follow-up was observed; and documentation was maintained properly
for periodic review. The audit reports were available on time, and had no major accountability issues.
Although the counterpart funding were available generally, the process by which it was getting to the
implementing agencies was rather cumbersome and it caused some delays in project implementation. Given
its importance, a more proactive role of MOE in the beginning of the project may have helped in early
startup and implementation of the Component B. However, towards the end of the project, the MOE
played a significant role in streamlining the work of its implementing agencies, RZGWs and IMGW in
implementation of Component B and resolving outstanding issues

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the implementing agencies' is rated satisfactory. ONDR had the overall responsibility for
project implementation, represented by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), while responsibility for
implementation of specific components and tasks was born by various other actors and entities, including,
the municipalities for implementation of components A and B4; MoE, and its associated agencies such as
IMGW for implementation of B2 and RZGWs (Wroclaw, Poznan, Gliwice, and Krakow) for
implementation of B1 and B3; and Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD), and
Ministry of Health for implementation of B3. The PCU as the main coordinating body for the project was
instrumental in quick project preparation. During implementation it provided generally proactive follow-up
to mitigate any implementation bottleneck.        The PCU was organized and effective in dealing with
disbursement, procurement, preparation of progress reports, and in maintaining proper records of the
project. Financial management procedures were conducted in line with the Bank's guidelines. PCU staff
was receptive to the Bank advice, and collaborative with all respects of implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned


l A quick and measured Bank response to recovery and reconstruction after a natural disaster is
     necessary for providing meaningful help to the countries, affected people and building a longer term
     relationship with the Government. This was particularly evidenced in this project as the Government
     appreciated the Bank's role in coordinating the flood recovery efforts and its support during project
     implementation resulting in a long term relationship in the flood sector leading to a broader program in
     providing flood protection in the Odra River Basin;

l The emergency recovery project should not be limited to restoration efforts only. In its design, due
     consideration should be given to longer term perspective and causes of these disasters. The project may
     include appropriate measures and plans for reduction of hazards and protection against recurrence of
     such disasters in future. Component B addressing flood hazard reduction and planning under this
     project served the most useful purpose in this regard;

l The implementation period of an emergency recovery project should not be limited to three years.
     Instead, implementation period should be determined based on the scope and scale of restoration works,



                                                     - 17 -

    complexities involved and capacity of the country and implementing agencies. Perhaps a longer
    implementation period may be allowed when justified, in particular if the project includes measures for
    minimizing risks against recurrence of such disasters in the future.

l To the extent possible, funds from development partners/financiers should be pooled together and
    disbursed using a simplified/unified procurement and disbursement procedures in order to speed up the
    implementation of recovery efforts and their completion in a timely manner.

l Contract packaging and procurement planning is extremely crucial for early startup and timely
    implementation of the project. To the extent possible, works should be packaged into large contracts
    attracting qualified contractors and reducing the time required for contract management. Given the
    scope of work in restoration immediately after a natural disaster, the government agencies generally do
    not have sufficient staff to manage such works. The consultants should be made available to the
    implementation agencies for technical designs, procurement planning, contract management and
    supporting overall management and supervision of the project.

l The implementation of sophisticated weather/flood forecasting systems should be done through
    contracts for integrated systems based on final functionality instead of installation of subcomponents of
    the system and then integrating them in to functional systems. These systems require a wide ranging
    expertise in several technical areas for preparing state of the art specifications, supervising their
    implementation, and functional testing. The implementing agencies cannot have all the skills required in
    managing the installation of such systems. Therefore, technical consulting firms should be recruited
    before starting the project to support preparation of system specifications, checking the compatibility
    of various subsystems, supervision during implementation and final testing of the systems. The
    technical and coordination consultants to IMGW played a crucial role in the installation of SMOK,
    without their technical assistance completion of SMOK may not been possible. An enhanced role of
    the technical consultants in preparing specifications and construction supervision would have made
    implementation of SMOK faster and smoother.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The PCU has prepared an implementation completion report that is attached in Annex 9 to this report. The
borrower comments on the project that include comments from the PCU, and the implementing agencies
and are included below:.

Component A

The PCU organized a survey of beneficiary opinions by asking questions to representatives of two major
beneficiaries of the Project, the cities of Wroclaw and Opole, and to a few urban and rural communes.
The local governments' opinions and comments focused on the following issues:
    l The communes had to wait for funds very long and therefore they were forced to use their own
        resources to pay contractors or suppliers in due time or to stop contracted work due to the lack of
        funds.
    l The communes found it difficult to estimate the value of losses in the initial phase and afterwards
        were challenged by the need to secure higher amounts of the required own contribution than
        originally envisaged in Funding Agreements.
    l The Bank and the Government withdrew from the option of back financing (of projects carried out
        after the Loan Agreement had been concluded but before the Funding Agreements were signed),



                                                    - 18 -

         thus causing serious financial problems especially for the Municipality of Wroclaw
   l The possibility of shifting Loan funds from one subproject to another was highly appreciated as it
         ensured efficient utilization of almost all allocated funds.
   l The World Bank's Guidelines were found too extensive. In the local government's opinions,
         subprojects of smaller values should have been subject to more concise, less complicated and less
         detailed guidelines.
   l A majority of local governments were not of high opinions of the services delivered by individual
         consultants and the PCU in early 1998, and highlighted difficulties in obtaining reliable
         information. Decided improvement in quality of the services came, in commune and county
         epresentatives' opinion, after three consulting firms had been hired
   l The local governments emphasized very good cooperation from 1999 with PCU consultants, who
         showed, in the opinion of those surveyed, active involvement knowledge, understanding and will to
         solve any problems during the implementation of the Project.
   l The initial tranches of Loan funds were planned improperly (statements of planned expenditure
         also covered those subprojects that had not been prepared for implementation yet) and caused
         delays in the implementation of the Project as the funds could not be accounted for within a
         reasonable time.
   l The communes were of the opinion that if Loan funds had been utilized to finance major
         subprojects only, they would have found the Project less difficult; a number of minor subprojects,
         long fund disbursement periods and rather complicated procurement procedure strongly impacted
         the negative assessment of the Project by contractors and suppliers.
   l Each of the beneficiaries strongly emphasized that the local communities positively assessed the
         outputs of the subprojects and were very grateful for the quick recovery of normal life in the
         flood-affected urban and rural areas.

Additional comments

In view of the geographical distribution and the number of beneficiaries, everybody involved would have
benefited a lot, if there had been a chance to engage a consulting firm during the initial phase of the Project
and avoid long-lasting international tendering. This would have been possible, if the Bank had identified
and selected consulting firms in advance and then put them at the Borrowers' disposal.

The consultants who were involved in the implementation of the Project (Component A) could be engaged
in successive World Bank projects in Poland and share their experience at as early a stage as the
preparation of draft loan agreements. Then, they could deliver training to project staff and also help to
organize structures of offices properly.

Component B

1.        RZGW Poznan, as one of the implementing agencies under Subcomponent B.1., draws attention to
the following problems:

Significant involvement on the part of employees of this agency in the Project implementation, who
assumed additional duties and great responsibility. The performance of additional work often forced them
to go beyond their contractual working time, without any additional compensation. Hence the suggestion
that implementation procedures for projects financed from foreign loans should provide for the possibility
of compensating employees of implementing agencies. But now RZGW suggests that the possibility should
be considered of giving all Project participants a thank-you souvenir, in the form of a plaque, diploma or
statute, as symbolic appreciation of their contribution in the Program implementation.


                                                       - 19 -

RZGW stresses very good cooperation with the PCU and the World Bank representatives. The PCU
assisted in conducting all procedures, both required under the Polish law and required by the World Bank.
It helped to obtain quickly the World Bank's decisions, to secure the Loan proceeds and counterpart funds
in due time (there had been some problems with that in the past), all decisions which could help in the
timely implementation of the task were taken quickly. In the opinion of RZGW this fact needs to be
emphasized, since the PCU was sparsely staffed, but its personnel was thoroughly component and well
managed. Special assistance was provided during financial accounting for tasks.

In turn, the World Bank representatives demonstrated far-reaching understanding of the implementing
agency's problems, what in effect resulted in "no objections" being given quickly at each stage of the
implementation. In the opinion of RZGW, both the PCU management and the World Bank representatives
deserve special appreciation for fast approval of direct contracting procurement of software and for
assistance in the implementation of additional procurements, in spite of procedural doubts. Thanks to a
sensible approach to this matter, it was possible to carry out procurements and the Loan proceeds were
utilized.

Fluctuations of the US dollar exchange rate against the local currency were also a problem. When the US
dollar exchange rate was on the rise, there was no problem, but when it was dropping, a problem arose.
Such situations should be taken care of, since implementing agencies unrightly bear the consequences of
agreements so concluded.

2.       RZGW Kraków (the implementing agency for a part of Subcomponent B.1. tasks):

It is of opinion that cooperation with the PCU came down primarily to approval of statements of
expenditures in technical, formal and accounting terms. But substantive and technical support for the
implementing agency was lacking.

It also suggests that the system of accountings should be simplified and information flow should be
streamlined, e.g., through the participation of implementing agencies in meetings of the Steering Committee
and also through the building of a system of substantive and technical consultancy for implementing
agencies.

3.       IMGW Warsaw, the implementing agency for Subcomponent B.2., draws attention to the following
issues:

For many years IMGW faced problems with financing the Service, and it was only when the Government
of the Republic of Poland took out a loan at the World Bank that it was possible to modernize the
Hydrological and Meteorological Service provided by the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management.

Management and administration of the project involving the expansion and modernization of the National
Monitoring and Protection System in accordance with the Bank's rules and procedures provided IMGW
with valuable, new knowledge and allowed it to formulate, based on its own experience, opinions which we
hope will be taken into consideration in the preparation of any possible further projects.

In order to ensure an efficient project implementation and to fulfill contractual obligations by IMGW, it is
very important to provide smooth financing and timely transfer of funds from the budget; to this end, it is
necessary to simplify the Bank's procedures for account-making and obtaining new funds, and to
streamline the transfer of funds to IMGW. Disruptions in project financing caused most problems during


                                                     - 20 -

the performance of contracts.

Permanent access to funds for maintenance and development is of key significance in order to ensure the
continuity of operation and maintenance of all elements of the modernized State Hydrological and
Meteorological Service. Securing funds in a sufficient amount and for a period longer than the current year
is the greatest worry of IMGW management.

The Project Coordination Unit supported the Institute through, in particular, advisory services and financial
coordination, contributing to proper financial control of the entire project. Nevertheless, we expected,
especially at the beginning of the project, greater procedural assistance in the organization of the bidding
process.

Consultant services were of particular significance at the initial phase of contract performance when
IMGW was starting to gain experience and skills in project management and technical support in
implementation of construction works, since the Institute does not employ specialists who could supervise
construction works.

In future projects IMGW would expect small support from consultants in project quality management and
technical support, only in the event that exceptionally complicated technical problems occur.

We are of opinion that IMGW's participation in a project of this scale and importance was an excellent
opportunity to gain practical experience in preparation of the bidding process and contracts in accordance
with the Bank's procedures and, in particular, in management of implementation of very complicated
projects involving the construction of systems based on advanced technologies.

Technical knowledge of IMGW employees at the highest world level and new skills acquired during the
project implementation will allow IMGW to offer the provision of consulting services by its employees in
similar projects.

Component C

The Bank's and Borrower's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. There was close
cooperation at the time of preparation between the Government and the Bank, and the clear vision of the
goal which the Project is designed to serve ensured the appropriate and fast preparation of the Program for
Poland.

Thanks to efficient cooperation of persons involved in the Program on the side of the Bank, the Government
and the coordinating agency, the PCU, as well as the implementing agencies, the intended objectives and
outputs were achieved. In spite of the discontinuation of the implementation of certain tasks, which were of
peripheral importance to the main goals of the Project, an integrated flood management system was created
covering two main basins of the country.

In spite of some difficulties faced during the Project implementation, the Project was successfully
completed. The dollar exchange rate fluctuations, complicated (used for the first time by some agencies)
procurement procedures of the World Bank, as well amendments in Polish laws all resulted in the
prolongation of the Project closing date and failure to complete it within the originally expected time limit.

From the Bank's side appropriate staff was assigned to lending activities, with several key members
maintained throughout the whole supervision period. Supervision missions included specialists with the


                                                     - 21 -

required high expertise and experience, and Project activities were monitored by local staff throughout the
Project on an on-going basis. One of the most positive aspects was the Bank's flexibility in responding to
the PCU's and implementing agencies' proposals, e.g., regarding approval of proposed modifications in the
contracts already made.

The participation of the PCU consultants in the preparation for implementation of the next investment
project, "Odra River Basin Flood Protection" Project, under task B.1.7 of this Project, proved to be a
good move. The PCU employees and consultants served with their experience already in the phase of
preparation of the project in technical terms, as well as in the preparation of the loan agreement itself.
Having adequate experience, preparation and expertise on the new Project, they were able to participate in
its implementation and during its performance."

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                  - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Restoring basic infrastructure in             881 subprojects were rehabilitated         The project has rehabilitated a large amount
municipalities and rural areas affected by the                                           of municipal and rural infrastructure in the
flood                                                                                    affected areas, restoring the lifeline for
                                                                                         resumption of all economic activities in the
                                                                                         affected areas
Reducing vulnerability and risk of future     About 95% of the modernization has been    As a result of the project, the system for flood
floods, and strengthening and modernizing     completed with the development of SMOK     monitoring, forecasting, and warning in
flood management system                       system.                                    Poland involving various agencies and
                                                                                         organizations within the country was
                                                                                         modernized with visible benefits




Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Repair of flood damage                        881 subprojects were rehabilitated         Repair of 100% of sub-projects identified at
                                                                                         project preparation completed by February
                                                                                         2002 and exceeded by about 20% due to
                                                                                         increased number of sub-projects included
                                                                                         into the Project due to cost savings
Production of flood hazard maps               Flood hazard maps were prepared under OKI Flood hazard maps were prepared under the
                                              and under component B4                     OKI (B1) and for B4 component (local flood
                                                                                         mgt plans).


Feasibility studies for major new flood       Feasibility study completed in early 2004  Feasibility study for Raciborz dry polder and
management investments                                                                   Wroclaw Flood Way System completed in
                                                                                         early 2004


Development of flood forecasting and          About 95% of the modernization has been    The system is completed and operational
warning system                                completed with the development of SMOK     since June 2005
                                              system.
Establishment of data transmission,           Modern communication systems were          Data transmission, communication and
communication, and computer systems           established for IMGW, RZGWs and OKIs       computer system operational at IMGW,
                                                                                         RZGWs and OKIs

1 End of project




                                                                 - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                                              Appraisal       Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                              Estimate           Estimate            Appraisal
                Component                    US$ million       US$ million
 A                                             267.7              295.0                110%
 B1                                              19.4             17.78                 92%
 B2                                              71.0             62.13                 88%
 B3                                             126.3             141.93               112%
 B4                                              10.9               4.43                41%
 C                                                3.0               3.12               104%

 Total Project Costs                            498.2             524.31               105%

 IBRD Financing                                 200.0             199.0                99.5%

·        IBRD funding for B2 at appraisal was US$54.6 million while actual is US$62.13 million.
·        Component B3 was fully financed by other donors such as CEB and EBRD, while B1, B4, and C were
fully financed by IBRD.
·        Component A was financed by IBRD (US$114.7 m at appraisal vs US$113.8 m actual) and other donors.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                   Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB                     2         N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                        Other
1. Works                             36.00             83.10            57.00            153.40        329.50
                                    (17.10)           (45.30)           (48.40)           (0.00)      (110.80)
2. Goods                             66.20             0.00             34.40             11.10        111.70
                                    (38.20)            (0.00)           (25.50)           (0.00)      (63.70)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00             44.10             10.30        54.40
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)           (22.50)           (0.00)      (22.50)
4. PIU Operations                     0.00             0.00              3.00              0.00         3.00
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)           (3.00)            (0.00)       (3.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00              0.00              0.00         0.00
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00              0.00              0.00         0.00
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)
    Total                           102.20             83.10            138.50           174.80        498.60
                                    (55.30)           (45.30)           (99.40)           (0.00)      (200.00)

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                             1
                                    Procurement Method
      Expenditure         ICB                               2    N.B.F.    Total Cost
        Category                         NCB          Other
 1. Works                20.77          80.40          75.85     213.54       390.56
                        (14.94)        (48.03)        (36.68)                 (99.65)
2. Goods                 66.39          (0.00)         34.21                  100.76



                                                    - 24 -

                          (55.52)         (0.00)         (16.00)                  (71.52)
3. Services                (0.00)         (0.00)          24.07                    24.07
                           (0.00)         (0.00)         (20.27)                  (20.27)
4. PIU Operation            0.00          (0.00)           7.36                    7.36
                           (0.00)         (0.00)          (6.39)                   (6.39)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00          (0.00)           1.45                    1.45
                           (0.00)         (0.00)          (1.14)                   (1.14)
   Total                   87.32          80.40          142.94                   524.30
                          (70.46)        (48.03)         (80.48)                 (199.00)
l   PIU Operation costs include US$4.67 million paid for consultants for component A.
 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The project supported establishment of a sophisticated Monitoring, Forecasting and Warning System
(SMOK) that covers all elements of the hydro-met service operations, starting from measurement and
observations through system of telecommunications, data processing, forecasting and warning down to the
user information system. The establishment of SMOK has resulted in creation of a credible meteorological
and hydrological system to protect the national economy and the society in Poland by ensuring:

l Earlier and more accurate flood hazard warning, tailored to the specific nature of the local conditions.
    This is of particular interest for the cities, administrative districts, arable land, industrial facilities and
    national heritage, threatened by floods;
l Earlier and more accurate warning on dangerous phenomena such as flood, sea storms, gales,
    thunderstorms and showers. The warning issued in advance many prevent substantial material losses
    and reduce threat to human life;
l Better warning and hydrological and meteorological forecasts for specific users such as aviation,
    maritime economy, water engineering and management, agriculture and industry;
l Reduction of risk of erroneous forecasts and warning, thereby increased user trust in meteorological
    and hydrological services; and
l Longer notice of medium-range forecasts, hence better protection of society and economy.


As mentioned in section 4.1 above, there are preliminary indicators demonstrating efficiency of the new
system over the old, but so far, the economic benefits of the efficiency improvement of the system has been
evaluated. Important to note that given the "Public Good" nature of the forecasting service, measurement of
the economic and financial benefit is not a very simple task. To measure the precise economic benefits of
the system, a specific study would need to be carried out for that purpose. As mentioned before, such a
study is being carried out by the government.

However, to demonstrate the economic benefits of similar systems such as the SMOK in other
places/countries, below table provides a number of indicators on the agriculture sector. The tables in this
Annex are taken from, "The Economic Benefits of Weather Forecasts: Implications for Investments in
Rusohydromet Services, "by Laurie L. Houston, Richard M. Adams, and Rodney F. Weiher, May, 2004 ­
a report prepared for NOAA and the World Bank under NOAA contract OG 1330-04-SE-0052.




                                                     - 26 -

Table 1. Agriculture: value of long-term weather forecasts
Type of Information        Value of Weather Information                            % of Sector       Source
Precipitation forecasts    Imperfect: $11/ha-yr                                                      Abawi et al.
                           perfect: $19/ha-yr derived from implementing wheat                        (1995)*
                           harvest strategies such as early harvesting, drying,
                           and contract harvesting
ENSO early warning         Imperfect: $20-31 million/yr                            0.3-2% of crop    Adams et al.
system                     Perfect: $59-79 million/yr from 5 important             production value  (2003)
                           agricultural states in Mexico                           in the 5 states
ENSO predictions           Imperfect: $168 million/yr                              1-2% of net       Adams et al.
                           Perfect: $254 million/yr from Southeast U.S.            income of U.S.    (1995)*
                           agricultural region                                     farmers
Precipitation and          Imperfect: $848-$2,276                                                    Bowman et al.
temperature forecasts      Perfect: $1,314-$2,800 derived from wool producers                        (1995)*
                           in Victoria Australia
Changes in ENSO            $482-$592 million per year                                                Chen et al.
frequency and strength     From global agriculture's use of an ENSO                                  (2002)
                           monitoring and early warning system
ENSO predictions           Imperfect: $507-$959/yr million                                           Chen et al.
                           Perfect: $1,768 million/yr from US agriculture                            (2002)*
Southern African           Imperfect: $178 million                                                   Harrison and
seasonal forecasts         Perfect:$0.72 billion                                                     Graham
                                                                                                     (2001)
Precipitation,             Imperfect $0-$102/ha-yr from Texas sorghum                                Hill et al.
temperature, and           producers                                                                 (1999)*
radiation forecasts
Precipitation,             Imperfect: $0-11/ha-yr                                                    Hill et al.
temperature, and           Perfect:$10-57/ha-yr from planning fertilizer                             (2000)*
radiation forecasts        applications on US and Canadian wheat fields
Precipitation and          Imperfect: $-159-$5/section-yr                                            Jochec et al.
temperature forecasts      Perfect:$-49-129/section-yr from livestock ranchers                       (2001)*
                           in Texas
Maximum and minimum        Imperfect $6-$17/ha-yr from corn, soybean,                                Messina et al.
temperature,               sunflower, and wheat producers in Argentina                               (1999)*
precipitation, and
radiation forecasts
Precipitation,             Perfect: $1.4-$3.2 billion over 10 years from making                      Mjelde and
temperature, and           fertilizer application decisions in the Corn Belt                         Penson
radiation forecasts        region                                                                    (2000)*
Precipitation forecasts    Imperfect: $1,170-14,520/farm                                             Mjelde et al.
                           Perfect: $19,900/farm from crop type, nitrogen                            (1996)*
                           application, Federal Farm Program participation, and
                           crop insurance decisions
Precipitation forecasts    Imperfect: $1.2-2.3/acre from fertilizer application                      Mjelde et al.
                           level, planting date and seeding rate decisions                           (1997)*
ENSO predictions           Imperfect: $297-$329 million/yr                         1-2% of net       Solow et al.
                           Perfect: $400 million/yr from US agriculture            income of U.S.    (1998)*
                                                                                   farmers
*Values were obtained from Exhibit A.2. of Stratus Consulting report by Lazo et al. 2003.

Note: For ease of comparison, all values were converted to 2004 US dollars using the CPI from the Economic
Research Service and historical exchange rates from http://www.x-rates.com/.




                                                            - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/10/1997                9    SENIOR ECONOMIST (1);            S               S
                                             WATER MGT. SPECIALIST
                                             (2); INFRASTRUCTURE (4);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1), EXT.
                                             AFFAIRS (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/29/1997                8    SENIOR ECONOMIST (1);            S               S
                                             WATER MGT.
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE (3);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC.
                                             (1); CONSUEL (1);

 Supervision
              06/06/1999                4    SANITARY ENGINEER                U               S
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIAL. (1);
                                             IRRIGATION ENGINEER
                                             (1); SENIOR ECONOMIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (1)
              12/06/1999                2    FLOOD MAN. SPECIALIST            U               S
                                             (1); TEAM LEADER (1
              02/21/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1); WATER           U               S
                                             MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              06/14/2000                5    TEAM LEADER (1); WATER           S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ENGINEER
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1); FIN.
                                             MANAGMENT SPEC (1)
              08/03/2001                4    WATER RESOURCES SPEC             S               S
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1); FMS (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              05/09/2002                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1)
              02/06/2003                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC.
                                             (1)
              11/21/2003                     MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S



                                              - 28 -

                                           ENVIRONMENTAL
                                           ENGINEER (1); CONSULTANT
                                           (1)
               03/24/2004              4   WATER RESOURCE TTL (1);            S    S
                                           ECONOMIST (1);
                                           ENVIRONMENTAL
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               11/08//2004             3   MISSION LEADER (WATER              S    S
                                           RESOURCES SPECIALST)
                                           OPERATIONS
                                           OFFICER/ECONOMIST (1);


 ICR
               06/02/2005             2     MISSION LEADER                    S    S
                                            (WATER SPECIALST (10;
                                            OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER/ECONOMIST
                                            (1))




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                         488.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                        855.1
  ICR                                                                  77.5
  Total                                                            1,421.2




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

BOARD DOCUMENTS

Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 17200 POL
Loan Agreement 4264-POL
Aide Memoires
Project Status Reports
Implementation Status and Results
Documentation on loan extensions
Documentation on amendment to Loan Agreement to add Operational Expenditure category
Documentation of amendment to Loan Agreement to allocate funds among expenditure categories



OTHER DOCUMENTS

Report on completion of Phase I of Component B4, Flood Prevention and Risk Reduction, Project
Coordination Unit, July 2000
Poland: Wroclaw Municipal Infrastructure Flood Damage Repair Project, BDS98-22, European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, 25 March 1998
Monitoring Report for Wroclaw Municipality, Wroclaw Municipal Infrastructure Flood Damage Repair,
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, April 2005
Ex Post Evaluation Report for Flood Prevention and Social Infrastructure Investments, Poland, Project F/P
1325, Council of Europe Development Bank, May 2005
Project Implementation Plan, 1997
National Reconstruction and Modernization Project, Chancellery of Prime Minister, Flood Recovery
Office, August 2002




                                                - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Monitoring Forecasting and Warning System

The primary goal of the upgrade and modernization of the Monitoring, Forecasting and Warning System
(SMOK) is to protect the citizens and the national economy in Poland and to effectively and accurately
warn the public on hazardous natural phenomena by predicting precisely the time and place of their
occurrence and updating on their development. The B2 subcomponent covers all elements of the service
operations starting from measurement and observations through the system of telecommunications, data
processing, forecasting and warning down to the user information system. The implementing agency for
this subcomponent was the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management (IMGW), a semi-independent
legal entity reporting to the Ministry of Environment. To achieve the necessary accuracy and precision in
forecasting, an advanced measurement network systems that feed real-time information on precipitation, air
temperature, humidity, wind speed and direction and water levels in rivers and lakes with the help of the
automated telemetry network; on rainfall and direction of movement of rain zones with the help of the radar
network; and on detected lightning and direction of storm cells movement with the help of the
thunderstorm/lightning detection and location network was established. The data in turn is transmitted with
the help of a modern telecommunication networks and is processed, manipulated and analyzed with the help
of super computers, models are run and forecasts are prepared and distributed using internet through the
Client Service System to the clients and the public. A description of the various subsystems upgraded is
presented below:

I. Measurement Networks and Data Collection

Upgrade of the Measurement Networks. Provision of continuous data flow is the most important element
of the measurement network and the system was designed to ensure existence of this element.
Modernization and upgrade of the data collection measurement networks has resulted in establishment of a
sound robust system, providing hydrological and meteorological measurements and observations which is
inputted to various models for forecast preparation.

Telemetric hydrological and meteorological monitoring networks. Close to 1000 remote stations were
built at locations essential to provide appropriate hydro-meteorological forecasting. The measurement data
transmission system is based on radio communication (44 radio transmitters) in the southern part of Poland
and in the other parts of the country, it is based on GPRS. In addition, 30 Data Collection Stations (DCS)
and 7 Regional Branch Offices (RBO) created, where servers with necessary software for measurement
data acquisition, processing and distribution were installed.  Establishment of the system has resulted in
provision of a sound, robust and to a large degree independent from weather conditions system providing
hydrological and meteorological measurement and observation. The system configuration enables access to
measurement data with a pre-determined interval and raster, adequate to the potential and existing threats.
The system feeds data to the complex meteorological and hydrological models, delivered under other
sub-systems to produce accurate forecasts.

Thunderstorm/Lightning monitoring system. A new lightening observation system was built to provide
valuable and needed information on formation and development of thunderstorms. The objective of this task
was to provide information regarding severe weather and storm types to the public for their safety. As
mentioned above, with the new system, it is now possible to: (i) determine the point of lightning strike with
between 500 m and 1000 m accuracy, thereby prompt location of power line damages - forest fire and other
material losses caused by thunderstorms; (ii) determine the electric condition of the atmosphere, thus
forecast the probability of lightning strike with up to few hours accuracy; and (iii) the thunderstorm
detection system will be complementary to the radar system and the system of automated, telemetry



                                                     - 33 -

precipitation stations, thus forming a coherent system for comprehensive real-time monitoring of
atmospheric phenomena responsible for intense showers and lightening hazards. All IMGW forecasting
offices were equipped with system terminals with full analytical functionality; in addition to the data
transmission capabilities. The system is also used for research and development work.

Enhancement of the Weather Radar System POLRAD. Under the project, a network of 8 weather radars
has enhanced the quality of forecasting hazardous weather, especially rainfall and strong winds, including
assessment of precipitation intensity, continuous monitoring of cloud formation and weather fronts in the
country. In addition, with the future access to data from Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovakia radars,
and European CERAD network, the system will allow for detection of dangerous atmospheric phenomena
with greater advance than previously possible. This system is also used for research and development
work. The effects of the system include:
l The capacity to continuously monitor the entire area of the country in terms of such atmospheric
    phenomena like intense precipitation, thunderstorms, atmospheric fronts and cloud cover;
l Combined with the data coming from the surface networks, the thunderstorm detection system, and the
    satellites, it will enable a comprehensive diagnosis of the atmospheric conditions which is the basis for
    credible meteorological and hydrological forecasting;
l Implementation of the methodology for comprehensive precipitation area analysis with the use of the
    data received from the radar and fixed networks and satellites will allow for credible area precipitation
    forecasting in advance of 6 hours. This will enable immediate analysis of the situation in the case of
    particular threat caused by intense precipitation and taking the appropriate precautions; and
l The radar system has increased input of data volume for mezoscale and local meteorological and
    hydrological models, which substantially improve hydrological forecast's quality.

Installation and Implementation of the Upper-air Sounding System with Hydrogen Generators.
Complete systems for vertical upper air sounding have been implemented in three cities. The existing
infrastructure has been adapted to conduct routine, continual upper air sounding (including determination
of the vertical profiles of temperature, humidity, wind direction and velocity and ozone content of the
atmosphere) in line with safety regulations in the country.

Equipment for the measurement and maintenance teams.                 Under this task, a new measurement
technology was introduced including upgrade of the Mobile Measurement Sets, and The IMGW Central
Measurement and Control Laboratory was modernized giving the possibility of accrediting the equipment
used in the hydro-meteorological service. The effect of the new system include
·       Greater efficiency and mobility of measurement teams, which is crucial in case of natural disaster;
·       Reduced workload of measurement teams with more capable and modern equipment;
·       Increased credibility of observations of the standard and signaling networks; and
·       Increased reliability of stations, posts and measurement instruments.

II. Data Transmission, Processing, Analyzing and Preparation of Forecasts

Upgrade of the telecommunication and Information Technology system and Development of Client
Service System. The telecommunication system in IMGW performs a very important function in the
overall operation of the organization. Under the project, the network was upgraded to efficiently receive
the hydro-met data and information through establishment of the "Client Service System" that enables
automatic and timely delivery of the products to the clients. Under this task, the needed equipment and
software was provided and the staff and clients were trained in the use and operation of the new system.




                                                     - 34 -

Introduction of an up-to-date telecommunications and information technology infrastructure including
increased flow capacity of the lines used has resulted in accelerated and more robust data transmission both
within the IMGW units and between IMGW and external users. The efficient and upgraded
telecommunications and IT technology infrastructure has provided for IMGW Personnel an efficient
electronic data interchange with other domestic and international meteorological units.      In addition, the
system has enabled access to the result of mathematical and meteorological and hydrology models as well
as full fledge connection to the external data processing centers.

Upgrade of data transmission and processing systems at the Forecasting Offices and Airport
Meteorological Offices. This task introduced a new system of preparing forecasts which gives each
forecaster in all forecasting offices and the airport meteorological offices access to full range of
observational and forecasting data that is necessary for the preparation of forecasts and warning process.
Before the new system, this activity was done centrally, as neither the forecasting offices had access to the
observation data, nor had the necessary capability to manipulate and analyze the data to prepare short-term
forecasts. In addition, before 2002, the reliability of short-term weather forecasts for Poland generated in
the Central Office of Meteorological Forecasting for the minimal temperature was about 79%, and for
maximal temperature 88%. In 2004 the reliability of these forecasts was respectively 83% and 90%. Some
work is being conducted on the methodology of forecast generation so to obtain even higher accuracy of
short-term forecasts and for processing of these data aiming at achieving additional information having
influence on the quality of elaborated weather forecasts and warnings against hazardous phenomena.

Introduction of meteorological forecasting model into operating practice. Under this task, two new
non-hydrostatic numerical forecasting models with a high time and spatial resolution were put into
operating practice and which enables the system to : (i) receive and process a large range of information on
basic weather parameter, and so forecast the weather 78 hours in advance, including precipitation
quantitative forecast, in a grid system covering significant part of Europe; (ii) provide its results to the
other models, such as hydrological models or pollution transport models; and (iii) calculate models twice
per day, using data from automatic measurement network. The calculations of the models are done with
the help of supercomputer provided under the project.

The live operations of the system of numerical weather forecasts for the country coupled with the extensive
program of scientific research and close international cooperation had enabled participation of the Polish
meteorological community in the world mainstream research and application.

Upgrade of the hydrological Monitoring, Forecasting and Warning system. This task included design
of a system of hydrology and development of a modeling platform to enable collection, processing
(including analysis and verification) and distribution of hydro-met data as well as connection to the data
base system by integration of database with hydrological and hydraulic models working in operational
mode. The Modeling Platform is used for preparing forecasts as well as further analysis. The Modeling
Platform integrates the hydro-meteo database with models of precipitation ­ runoff, wave transformation in
a river bed and the operation of hydrotechnical facilities. Preparation of data for calibration of the
modeling platform allowed converting a huge part of historical data from analogue into digital form. In
addition, with the introduction of the new system, the hydrological forecasting offices, these offices were
equipped with additional hardware and specialized software, and staff working in the hydrological
forecasting offices were training in the use and operation of the new system.

Implementation of SMOK has resulted in establishment of an up-to-date technical and methodology base
for accurate and credible meteorological and hydrological protection of the national economy and the
society through (i) early and more accurate flood hazard warning, tailored to the specific nature of the local


                                                    - 35 -

conditions. This is of particular importance for the cities, administrative, districts, arable land, industrial
facilities and national heritage, threatened with inundation; (ii) early and more accurate phenomena such as
flood, sea storms gales, thunderstorms and showers. This warning issued several minutes in advance many
prevent substantial material losses and reduce threat to human life; (iii) better warning and hydrological
and meteorological forecasts for specific users such as aviation, maritime economy, water engineering and
management, agriculture and industry; and (iv) longer notice of medium-range forecasts, hence better
protection of society and economy.




                                                     - 36 -

- 37 -

- 38 -

Additional Annex 9. Project Coordination Unit in Wroclaw - Completion Report


INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN NO 4264 POL

EMERGENCY FLOOD RECOVERY PROJECT




      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION
                                       REPORT
                                      AS AT MAY 15, 2006




                                         POLAND
                         PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
                                       IN WROC·AW

                                            Country : Poland




Region : Europe and Central Asia
Sector: Infrastructure, Flood Protection
Lending instrument: IBRD Loan 4264 POL
Project : Emergency flood recovery
ICR Type: ILI


                                              - 39 -

INTRODUCTION

In July 1997, Poland was hit by a catastrophic flood with a scale not recorded for 200 years. Responding to
the flood disaster, the Polish Government prepared and adopted "The National Reconstruction and
Modernization Program", which included a program of action for immediate implementation and a medium-
and long-term program of flood recovery. The objective of the Emergency Flood Recovery Project was to
support the implementation of the medium- and long-term component of the National Reconstruction and
Modernization Program. The Project's implementation was started on an emergency basis on January 13,
1998. The Project was completed on May 15, 2006.

The mission of the Emergency Flood Recovery Project is to reconstruct damages caused by the flood and to
implement comprehensive prevention solutions which will result in taming the flood phenomenon and
ensuring flood management of the highest world quality.

In the Proposed Emergency Flood Recovery Project ­ in the Project Implementation Plan, adopted on
November 19, 1997, total expenditures of US$498 million was allocated for the flood recovery, of which
the amount of US$200 million came from the World Bank loan. The final Project cost, which included
expenditures accounted for through the Project Coordination Unit in Wroc·aw, was US$310,667,032.95
(without funding from other foreign financial institutions), including the amount of US$198,968,435.56
from the World Bank loan.

The scope of this World Bank's Project, coordinated by the Project Coordination Unit in Wroc·aw, covered
the reconstruction of urban and rural infrastructure in flood-hit areas, the implementation of scientific and
technological solutions aimed at reducing flood risks in the future, and preparation of local communities for
organized flood management actions. Investments associated with flood protection infrastructure (the
reconstruction of embankments and regulation of rivers), in the original amount of US$126 million, without
any share of the World Bank funds, were carried out under a separate project and, therefore, they are not
covered by this Report.

Under the Emergency Flood Recovery Project, preparations were also started for the Odra River Basin
Flood Protection Project; its main goal is to modernize the Wroc·aw Floodway System and to construct the
Racibórz Dolny dry reservoir.

The Project was composed of the following components:

A.      Urban and rural infrastructure - which included technical support, the preparation and
implementation of investment projects aimed to reconstruct infrastructure at the gmina (commune) level
-       Water supply systems, sewage systems, and waste disposal facilities
-       Local roads and bridges
-       District heating and gas systems
-       Municipal and public buildings
B.      Flood management and flood risk reduction, which included technical support, designing and
urgent investments aimed to modernize hydraulic infrastructure, modernization of flood management
systems, as well as improvement of forecasting and planning
-       Basin flood management planning
-       Monitoring, forecasting and warning
-       Flood protection infrastructure investments


                                                   - 40 -

-        Prevention and flood risk reduction
C.       Project administration and technical support, the creation of the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) in order to, among other things, support the implementation of procurements and disbursements
associated with the Project

Loan beneficiaries were as follows:
l 164 gminas (communes) and 21 poviats (counties) within 7 voivodships (provinces)
l Regional Water Management Boards in Wroc·aw, Pozna· and Kraków
l Institute of Meteorology and Water Management (IMGW) in Warsaw
l Project Coordination Unit in Wroc·aw


The Project Coordination Unit (PCU), an appropriately staffed and equipped agency, was established
specifically to implement the Project.


The PCU was responsible for coordinating all efforts under the Project, especially for supporting
implementing institutions, administration, accounting and financial management, for providing technical
support to the gminas and poviats in public procurement, for coordinating and supervising procurements,
monitoring and evaluation, as well as reporting.

COMPONENT A
Urban and rural infrastructure

A. Project Data

Emergency Flood Recovery Project Component A (the Project) covered rehabilitation of infrastructure
damaged by the 1997 Flood in regions located in the vicinity of the Odra River in Poland.

The rehabilitation of the infrastructure consisted in repair of structures and facilities of significant economic
importance, in restoration of operational capabilities of rescue services and in provision of assistance for
those who had to desert their places of residence, in both urban and rural areas.

Water-pipe networks, sewerage systems, landfill facilities, local roads and bridges, district heating systems,
municipal and public buildings have been reconstructed as part of the Component.

The Project Coordination Unit (PCU), an appropriately staffed and equipped agency was established
specifically to implement the Project. The agency's operation was supervised directly by the Plenipotentiary
of the Government for Flood Recovery in the rank of Minister, at present the Chief of the Chancellery of the
Prime Minister. The PCU was responsible for coordinating all efforts leading to the implementation of the
Project, especially for supporting implementing institutions (local governments in communes (gmina) and
counties (powiat)), for providing technical assistance to the communes and counties in public procurement,
for coordinating and supervising tendering procedures and also for administration, financial accounting and
management, monitoring, evaluation and reporting.
Summary data on the Project:



Implementing units                                  185 units, including:
                                                    164 communes and 21 counties in the area of 7
                                                    provinces



                                                      - 41 -

Conclusion      of  Funding      Agreements    with from 27th May 1998 to 31st July 2001
implementing units
Technical Support Units                              Consulting firms: Booz · Allen & Hamilton Inc.,
                                                     Proeko Ltd., Halcrow Rural Management
Number of sub-projects, including:                   881
§        Basic List                                  739
§        Additional List prim                        86
§        Additional List bis                         56
Total value of sub-projects                           US$200 771 520.81
Including:
§        Basic List                                  US$179 541 218.99
§        Additional List prim                        US$13 072 868.69
§        Additional List bis                         US$8 157 433.13
Loan total accounted for at the PCU level            US$106 627 013.67
Including:
§        Basic List                                  US$91 457 409.04
§        Additional List prim                        US$8 927 108.65
§        Additional List bis                         US$6 242 495.98
Number of sub-projects by sectors                    DH - District Heating
DH ­ 22                                              HR - Buildings
HR ­ 36                                              PF - Public Facilities
PF ­ 239                                             RB - Roads and Bridges
RB ­ 362                                             SS - Sewage System
SS ­ 104                                             SW - Solid Waste
SW ­      9                                          WS - Water Supply
WS ­ 109



In spite of the scale and complexity of the Project (881 sub-projects accomplished in the area equal to about
1/3 of Poland's area), the final cost of the Project approximates the figure projected in the Loan Agreement.

All contractual liabilities of the implementing institutions had been paid for before the four months' grace
period of the Project Closing Date elapsed.

B. Major Performance Measures

In view of the Project outputs, which are described in section D, the Project performance is considered
satisfactory. The approach to the rehabilitation of infrastructure, as a combination of reconstruction and
modernization in both urban and rural areas, resulted in the achievement of the effect of up-to-date and
sustained infrastructure. As the Loan Agreement for Component A was targeted on divisions of local
governments (communes) exclusively, the Loan funds had been utilized to meet the most urgent local
communities' needs. A vital factor was that communes and counties had been given a chance to indicate
projects by themselves in consultation with the local communities. The projects were selected by commune
and county councils, which knew social needs and expectations best. The relevance of choices is confirmed
by the public acceptance the subprojects enjoy in society. Since the rehabilitation finished, the Government,
PCU and consulting firms have not heard any adverse opinion from the inhabitants or the media.

Thanks to the implementation of the Project, clerks of 185 commune and county councils in Poland had a



                                                      - 42 -

possibility to learn how to apply and qualify for foreign aid. They could also become acquainted with the
Bank's procurement procedures and the application thereof in practice. While receiving the World Bank's
Monitoring Missions, a dozen or so beneficiaries were directly communicated the Bank's assessments of,
suggestions and comments to work progress in the implementation of local subprojects. The level of
knowledge of projects funded by international institutions was changing sensibly and gradually in the
course of time among the implementing units' staff. The Project sensitized the staff to issues of importance
for the institutions they worked for and contributed to institutional development by helping a part of the
staff to divert to other jobs. In major cities such as Wroclaw and Opole it also resulted in establishing
separate sections within the structures of the administration offices to cope exclusively with issues related
to the gaining of aid funds for the cities and to implementation of successive projects.

The cooperation of the Bank's staff, the Government and PCU during the Projects was satisfactory. Its
final effect was the success consisting in the completion of the entire Project on the projected schedule, in
terms of both the scope of work and funding (all funds put at the Government's disposal were fully
employed).

C. Assessment of Development Objective and Design and of Quality at Entry

The Project was of emergency nature and its objective was to support efforts of the Government of Poland
to rehabilitate basic infrastructure in flood-affected communes in urban and rural areas. Soon after the
1997 flood had abated, the Government of Poland took very intensive recovery measures. At that time two
aid projects were funded in Poland almost in parallel, the World Bank Project referred to in this Report and
the EU PHARE-funded Reconstruction Project. Communes declared their readiness to accept the aid and to
secure the required contribution of their own resources. Within a very short period they compiled lists of
indispensable subprojects to be implemented in compatibility with their long-term development strategies.
The required own contributions came from the Communes' own funds, subsidies or low-interest loans from
the National or Provincial Funds for Environmental Protection and Water Management and also from
credits from other sources, if need was.

At that time the financial position of the Communes was rather good, most of the communes were not or
only slightly indebted, so they were capable of securing the required part of own finance and thanks to this,
of receiving aid funds.

Therefore there was a chance to implement subprojects whose values qualified them for International
Competitive Bidding - 3 subprojects, International Shopping ­ 9 subprojects, National Competitive Bidding
- 136 subprojects, National Shopping ­ 25 subprojects and Major Works ­ 590 subprojects. The
communes also tried to improve their institutional capabilities in order to win funds from international
institutions by providing additional staff (or divert the existing clerks to new jobs) and making them
responsible for the implementation of subprojects, in particular for procurement and financial accounting.

The Government of Poland amended the existing regulations, thus offering a possibility of applying
simplified procedures to the preparation of capital projects. Such approach significantly reduced the
preparatory phase and facilitated quick implementation of the subprojects. The Council of Ministers
urgently prepared and issued regulations on (i) the possibility that most construction and erection work
could be performed on the basis of an application only, with no need for obtaining building permits or
preparing detailed technical designs, and for making all otherwise required agreements and (ii) the
possibility that public funds could be spent with the omission of a part of the provisions of the Public
Procurement Law, which in turn speeded up commissioning of designs (if such designs were needed due to
complexity and technicalities of the work).


                                                      - 43 -

D. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

The objectives and outputs of the Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project implemented in the flood-affected
urban and rural areas were achieved to the satisfactory degree.

The assessment is slightly hindered by the lack of prioritization of objectives or specification of
performance indicators in the Project Implementation Plan.

Priorities were defined exclusively in terms of subproject eligibility criteria. There were the following major
eligibility factors: (i) priority given to the subproject by the local community, (ii) impact of the subproject
on the reduction of risk to the people's health, (iii) recognizing the subproject as important for the
community from the economic point of view (improvement in transport, basic municipal services), (iv)
applicability of the object to be constructed under the subproject in emergency situations, (v) the need to
repair flood-affected buildings before the coming of winter. The PCU was of the opinion that the communes
properly qualified subprojects and the implementation thereof was in the communes and inhabitants'
interests.

However, flood­affected buildings were not repaired before the coming of 1999 winter to a significant
degree although high priority was given to the subprojects.

The communes rehabilitated housing buildings in a comprehensive way, which required preparation of
design documentation and adjustment of the documentation to the new then applicable regulations. The
approach enabled them to repair the buildings thoroughly to future tenants' advantage, and the results of
approach of this kind were expected as much as possible by local communities in towns and cities.

The infrastructure rehabilitated within urban areas falls into all sectors specified in Section A Project Data.
The Project outcomes certainly brought sustained benefits for the local communities, as the subprojects
involved modernization and not only reconstruction. The infrastructure thus modernized and reconstructed
meets the current norms and standards which do not depart from world standards. Also financial
capabilities of the towns and cities ensure that the infrastructure such as roads, housing buildings, schools,
nursery schools and kindergartens, and also water-pipe networks and sewerage systems will be maintained
and kept in suitable technical condition and fully operational.

Wroclaw and Opole, two major urban beneficiaries of the World Bank's Loan, took advantage of the aid in
a way that is visible and sensible for the dwellers. Aid funds were spent on rehabilitation of infrastructure
such as roads, housing buildings, schools, nursery schools and kindergartens, district heating infrastructure,
and also community centers, libraries, the ZOO (in Opole) and the Music Hall (in Wroclaw).

The infrastructure rehabilitated within rural areas falls mostly into the WS, SW and RB sectors. A
trade-off was identified between the immediate and visible result from geographical distribution of
infrastructure subprojects and the longer term benefits of intensive work to built the infrastructure into the
areas' future development strategies.

It is worth emphasizing that the local governments in rural areas chose subprojects for implementation
carefully in broad consultations with the communities and in a great majority of cases the rehabilitated
infrastructure will have a significant impact on long-term development of the flood-affected areas.

The rehabilitation of the infrastructure in rural areas also involved modernization, which consisted in


                                                       - 44 -

construction of new water-pipe networks instead of previous water intakes in individual households and of
sewerage systems instead of cesspools or septic tanks and also in rehabilitation of flood-affected roads and
bringing them to higher standards. Such improved infrastructure forms the basis for development of the
regions in the future.

There is no exaggeration in the statement that both the objectives and outputs of the Project in these areas
are in fact greater that those projected at the time when the Loan Agreement was concluded.

E. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome


Factors beyond the control of the Government or implementing agency (PCU)

First of all, there were changes in local authorities, and some of them were trying to amend the Funding
Agreements by canceling subprojects or their parts or by replacing the approved subprojects with new ones.
As the subprojects had been subject to eligibility procedure and detailed reviews by PCU consultants before
the Funding Agreements were concluded, proposals of new local authorities were considered carefully and
the Funding Agreements were amended very rarely and exclusively for technical reasons.

The reduction of the number of public orders in Poland, due to decrease in the capital expenditure budget,
resulted in lowering of bids by the bidders. In consequence this was the reason for difficulties at the stage of
implementation in enforcing the contractors to assure appropriate quality of workmanship.

The need for following the World Bank's procurement procedure, especially international procurement
procedure, by the beneficiaries and PCU was often a delaying factor. On the other hand, the possibility of
selecting contractors and suppliers by the application of the procurement procedure contributed to
transparency of the tendering process and to selection of the most advantageous bid out of a range of offers
from practically the whole world, thus giving a chance to gain the most up-to-date technologies.

The Project outcome had been affected by fluctuations in zloty to dollar exchange rates, which varied
significantly during the Project implementation period, reaching 3.4 in 1997, 3.5 in 1998, 4.0 in 1999, 4.5
in 2000 and 4.1 in 2001. As the Bank's funds were disbursed to the communes in Polish zlotys, such great
exchange differences reduced the spending of the Bank's funds which consisted of a certain amount of US
dollars. Owning to this, savings occurred and the Project was enlarged by two new lists of subprojects. The
first list, also called additional list prim, covered 86 subprojects, while the second, so called additional list
bis covered 56 subprojects. Both lists contained subprojects that were implemented by communes and
counties. Counties were new divisions of local governments formed after the Loan Agreement had been
concluded. The enlargement of the Project by 21 subprojects to be implemented in the counties resulted in
rehabilitation, first of all, of county-level roads of fundamental importance for local transport among
communes.

Factors generally in control of the Government

Firstly, delays during the initial phase of the implementation of the Project in establishing and authorizing
the PCU. This factor forced the communes to finance a part of the subprojects originally planned to be
co-financed by the World Bank's funds, by the communes' own resources or the PHARE-funded
Reconstruction Project.

The positive aspect of the above situation for local authorities and communities was the opportunity to



                                                      - 45 -

review over a longer period of time both the communes' financial abilities and the subprojects proposed as
replacements. In effect, in many cases the infrastructure could not only be rehabilitated but modernized, as
well. The modernization required more time to get design documentation prepared.

Secondly, delays in disbursing funds to communes. According to the PCU's report, the average fund
transfer time was 43 days of the date of application by a commune. Occasionally, this time happened to be
as long as seven months.

Such long fund transfer periods resulted from the adoption of a complicated procedure where to many
governmental institutions were involved in the processing of disbursement applications. The disbursements
of funds were also delayed due to the need for the Council of Ministers to prepare and issue a directive and
a list of communes on a yearly basis in order to form legal grounds for subsidizing maintenance and
operation of infrastructure in the communes in a given year. The 1999 directive did not appear until July,
the 2000 directive until May and the 2001 directive until February. Without this document there were no
legal grounds for disbursing funds to the units even though the communes had submitted properly prepared
applications and funds had been secured by tranches of the loan transferred by the World Bank to an
account at the National Bank of Poland.

In addition, the territorial division of the country changed in 1999 and a number of legal documents needed
changing, thus generating further delay.
The quoted example of the ,,way" to be covered by the application illustrates practically reasons for the
delay referred to above:
l A commune submits its application to the consulting firm hired by the PCU
l The application and the consulting firm's acceptance come to the PCU
l The PCU forwards the application (together with other applications of this kind) to the Flood Recovery
    Office in Warsaw (BUSP Warsaw) twice a month
l BUSP Warsaw forwards the application for approval to the Minister of Economy via the Chief of the
    Chancellery of the Prime Minister (either decision, even disapproval, have no impact on further process
    of transferring funds to the beneficiaries)
l The approved (or disapproved) application is returned by the Minister of Economy to the Chief of the
    Chancellery
l The Chief of the Chancellery forwards the application to the Ministry of Finance Aid Fund Department
l Having expressed its opinion, the Aid Fund Department forwards the application to the Budget
    Department, which prepares an appropriate fund allocation document to be signed by the Minister of
    Finance
l The document signed by the Minister of Finance is forwarded to the Provincial Governor, who has
    jurisdiction over the applicant
l The document forms grounds for the Provincial Governor's decision on allocation of funds to the
    beneficiary
l The decision is followed by the transfer of funds to the beneficiary's bank account, once the Province
    has received the funds from the Ministry of Finance.

The delays resulted in interruption of work, as the Contractors had not been able to work unpaid for such a
long time. During the implementation of the Project, the general economic situation of the communes and
counties aggravated, thus reducing the local governments' capacity to invest and ability to secure the
required contribution of their own funds. Forced to wait for the funds for a long time, the communes and
counties often used their liquid assets and were not able to pay advances to contractors and suppliers or
invoices in compliance with contractual terms any longer.




                                                      - 46 -

Nevertheless, huge involvement of the Governors, regional representatives of the government, in the
implementation of the Project needs to be emphasized decidedly in this place.

Factors generally in control of the implementing agency (PCU)

Active involvement of the PCU strongly contributed to the closure of the Project on agreed schedule and to
the achievement of the projected objective of the rehabilitation of the flood-affected infrastructure in terms
of both the scope of work and the financial arrangements provided by the Funding Agreements, in spite of
the delay that had occurred in the initial phase of the Project.

Three consulting firms did the PCU a good service. They had been hired by the PCU to assist communes in
implementing subprojects.

Each of them serviced 1/3 of the entire Project or about 270 subprojects in a clearly defined territory. Each
firm established its office in a different town at the central point of the serviced territory in order to ensure
easy and quick access to beneficiaries.

The hiring of professional firms that had experience of implementing projects of this kind and of following
the World Bank's procurement procedure and that employed consultants specializing in a variety of
engineering professions, finance and procurement proved effective for the efficient implementation of the
Project.

The firms were responsible for assisting the communes and counties on an on-going basis in every phase of
the implementation of subprojects: from conducting feasibility studies, if those were needed, through
choosing the appropriate method, procuring, preparing amendments to Funding Agreements, evaluating
bids and selecting the winning bidders, writing disbursement applications, to participating in final
acceptance and helping in financial accounting.

The firms delivered training to beneficiaries in implementing the subprojects efficiently. Each firm made
about 30 short and long-term consultants available to 60 communes and counties, equipped the consultants
with means of communications, IT equipment and means of transport and delegated to work with the
beneficiaries in the communities. In this way problems were tackled at source and the PCU was contacted
whenever it was necessary. The consultants also supervised the quality of construction work performed on
sites. The firms proved very helpful for the two-consultant staff assigned to the Project by the PCU. Good
and efficient cooperation of the PCU with consulting firms and communes contributed to the successful
implementation of the Project.

F.        Long-term Sustainability of the Project
The sustainability of the Project needs to be considered in two aspects: (i) rehabilitated infrastructure and
(ii) institutional development and staff capacity building for servicing similar projects in the future.

          (i) Rehabilitation of urban and rural infrastructure was combined with modernization. The
          infrastructure meets high standards and requirements and complies with the regulations. For the
          technical point of view, the infrastructure should serve the local communities over a long period of
          time. The rehabilitated or newly constructed water-pipe networks, sewerage systems and sewage
          treatment plants offer some spare capacities and will serve more households in the future, thus
          making grounds for future development of the region. The same applies to rehabilitated roads
          which are part of fundamental infrastructure and may impact decisions of potential investors on
          putting their capital into the region. Higher quality life of the dwellers is possible thanks to public


                                                       - 47 -

         buildings such as schools, nursery schools and kindergartens, surgeries, theaters, libraries and other
         buildings of culture, which have been rehabilitated and modernized as part of the Project. Their
         present standard makes everyone convinced that they will serve the public for many years. The
         district heating sector was modernized to a significant degree as part of the Project. Major
         subprojects were implemented by the Municipality of Wroclaw, where the entire district heating
         system was modernized in two districts of the city populated by 630 000 people. The durability of
         the system is estimated for at least 50 years.

         (ii) The implementation process involved participation of many people representing local and
         central administration, among them 185 communes, the implementing agency (PCU) and ministries.
         This caused the persons to work out a common institutional framework for utilizing Loan funds
         quickly and efficiently. They had to get acquainted with the World Bank's procurement and
         financial accounting procedures that were applied to the Project. By the time of the Project, foreign
         aid of this kind in Poland was targeted on a much narrower group of institutions, therefore this
         Project (along with the PHARE-funded Project) can be considered the first one that enabled so
         many clerks to gain experience and knowledge that might be shared in the case of other foreign aid
         in the future.

G. Overall Bank and Borrower Performance

Borrower

Preparation
The Borrower's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. There was close cooperation at the time
of preparation between the Government and the Bank, and the clear vision of the goal of the Project ensured
that the entire program was appropriate to Poland's needs.

Government implementation performance

The Government's implementation performance is assessed as satisfactory. The Government fulfilled all
key conditions of the Loan Agreement. It accomplished its tasks by assigning its duties to appropriate
institutions which were able to implement the Project.

Implementing agency (PCU) performance

The implementing agency's performance is assessed as satisfactory. In spite of delays in the initial phase of
the implementation after Contracts for Consultants' Services had been concluded and new personnel
assigned to Component A within the PCU, progress in the implementation of the Component improved
significantly, and the Project was completed on schedule. The PCU's proposal to add to the Project 142
new subprojects only slightly extended the entire Project, but on the other hand it ensured reasonable
allocation of funds saved and efficient utilization of the Loan.

Overall Borrower performance

The overall performance of the Borrower during the Project is assessed as satisfactory.

Bank

The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. Appropriate staff was assigned to lending activities, with



                                                      - 48 -

many members maintained throughout the supervision. Supervision missions included specialists with the
required expertise. Project activities had been monitored by local staff throughout the Project on an
on-going basis. One of the most positive aspects was the Bank's flexibility in responding to the PCU and
implementing units' proposals for modifying subprojects after the Loan Agreement had been concluded and
in approving the amendments quickly. The Polish initiative to add two additional lists of subprojects to the
Project also met with the Bank's understanding. The Bank's consent to the application of the NCB and
MW procurement procedures after the Polish Public Procurement Law had been amended facilitated the
tendering and definitely speeded up the commencement by the communes of the procurement of works and
supplies.

H. Lessons Learned

The rehabilitation of infrastructure should have been conducted in parallel with broadly understood flood
management, especially with rehabilitation and construction of hydro-technical facilities. In the local
governments' opinion, the reconstruction of flood-control dykes and hydro-technical facilities still
progresses too slowly and this may lead to recurrent flooding and involve rehabilitation costs.

More attention should be given to consultations with society before programs are initiated. Some
subprojects happened not to enjoy the communities' acceptance, although the PCU was of the opinion that
the proper eligibility criterion of the communes' interest was met. It is worth while emphasizing in this
place that for the first time local communities were given a chance to impact on the choice of subprojects
and this was secured by community and county councils through holding consultation with the
communities.

Consideration could be given to the idea of establishing in Poland an implementing agency, whose staff
would be properly trained both by the World Bank (in the Bank's procurement procedure) and the
Government (in the Polish legislation and cooperation with other governmental agencies) and would have
the required experience of the implementation of earlier projects for efficient execution of other World Bank
projects in Poland. The World Bank's loan funds would be disbursed to beneficiaries via the implementing
agency instead of via a number of ministries. This way of transferring funds might be much more efficient
and would enable quicker disbursements. But the realization of the above mentioned idea would require the
applicable law to be amended.

In view of the lack of such a specialized implementing agency at that time and the need to establish a new
body (PCU) to coordinate all Project-related efforts, it was very difficult to implement the Project in its
initial phase and delays occurred. In that situation not only Polish qualified staff was missing but also the
World Bank's delegated personnel who would have worked together with the PCU staff on the Project in
Wroclaw over the period of about 3 or 4 months. Efforts should have been made to ensure continuity of
services of Polish and Bank staff throughout the entire Project implementation period.

I. Partner Comments

The PCU organized a survey of beneficiary opinions by asking questions to representatives of two major
beneficiaries of the Project, the cities of Wroclaw and Opole, and to a few urban and rural communes.
The local governments' opinions and comments focussed on the following issues:
l The communes had to wait for funds very long and therefore they were forced to use their own
     resources to pay contractors or suppliers in due time or to stop contracted work due to the lack of funds
l The communes fount it difficult to estimate the value of losses in the initial phase and afterwards were
     challenged by the need to secure higher amounts of the required own contribution than originally


                                                     - 49 -

    envisaged in Funding Agreements
l The Bank and the Government withdrew from the option of back financing (of projects carried out after
    the Loan Agreement had been concluded but before the Funding Agreements were signed), thus causing
    serious financial problems especially for the Municipality of Wroclaw
l The possibility of shifting Loan funds from one subproject to another was highly appreciated as it
    ensured efficient utilization of almost all allocated funds
l The World Bank's Guidelines were found too extensive. In the local government's opinions,
    subprojects of smaller values should have been subject to more concise, less complicated and less
    detailed guidelines
l A majority of local governments were not of high opinions of the services delivered by individual
    consultants and the PCU in early 1998, and highlighted difficulties in obtaining reliable information.
    Decided improvement in quality of the services came, in commune and county representatives' opinion,
    after three consulting firms had been hired
l The local governments emphasized very good cooperation from 1999 with PCU consultants, who
    showed, in the opinion of those surveyed, active involvement, knowledge, understanding and will to
    solve any problems during the implementation of the Project
l The initial tranches of Loan funds were planned improperly (statements of planned expenditure also
    covered those subprojects that had not been prepared for implementation yet) and caused delays in the
    implementation of the Project as the funds could not be accounted for within a reasonable time
l The communes were of the opinion that if Loan funds had been utilized to finance major subprojects
    only, they would have found the Project less difficult; a number of minor subprojects, long fund
    disbursement periods and rather complicated procurement procedure strongly impacted the negative
    assessment of the Project by contractors and suppliers
l Each of the beneficiaries strongly emphasized that the local communities positively assessed the outputs
    of the subprojects and were very grateful for the quick recovery of normal life in the flood-affected
    urban and rural areas.

J. Additional comments

In view of the geographical distribution and the number of beneficiaries, everybody involved would have
benefited a lot, if there had been a chance to engage a consulting firm during the initial phase of the Project
and avoid long-lasting international tendering. This would have been possible, if the Bank had identified and
selected consulting firms in advance and then put them at the Borrowers' disposal.

The consultants who were involved in the implementation of the Project (Component A) could be engaged
in successive World Bank projects in Poland and share their experience at as early a stage as the
preparation of other projects. Then, they could deliver training to project staff and also help to organize
structures of offices properly.

COMPONENT B
Flood management and flood risk reduction

A.       Project data

Subcomponent B of the Emergency Flood Recovery Project covered Flood management and flood risk
reduction and it included: technical support, designing and urgent investments aimed to modernize
hydraulic infrastructure, modernization of flood management systems, as well as improvement of
forecasting and planning.




                                                      - 50 -

Under this Component, three Subcomponents were implemented:
B.1. - Basin flood management planning
B.2. ­ Monitoring, forecasting and warning
B.4. ­ Prevention and flood risk reduction.

Subcomponent B.3. ­ Flood protection infrastructure investments - is excluded from this report due to its
financing from the European Investment Bank funds.

Under Subcomponents B.1. B.2. and B.4., a number of tasks were implemented which were introduced to
the Project under the Component B Implementation Plan. In order to systematize the implementation of
particular tasks, the Component B Specific Implementation Schedule was prepared, which was adopted
and approved by the Steering Committee. With the passage of time, it was modified by introducing or
abandoning particular tasks. Each modification of the Schedule also required approval by the Steering
Committee. In accordance with the last Component B Implementation Schedule, approved on October 28,
2005, the following tasks were implemented under Component B:

Subcomponent B.1.

B 1.1.2    Flood Management Coordination and Information Centers
B.1.2.2.1 Individual consultant for preparation of technical specifications for B.1.2.2.2 and supervision
           over implementation of this task.
B.1.2.2.2 Development of cross sections
B.1.2.3.1 Individual consultant for preparation of technical specifications for B.1.2.3.2 and supervision
           over implementation of this task.
B.1.2.3.2 Digital terrain models and digital topographic maps.
B.1.3.1    Individual consultant for preparation of bidding documents for task B.1.3.2.
B.1.3.2    Development of a flood protection strategy for the Upper and Middle Odra river and a strategy
           for the Upper Vistula river. Implementing agency: RZGWs Wroc·aw and Kraków -
           ABANDONED: the Steering Committee's decision of May 9, 2002
B.1.3.3    Preparation of a feasibility study for the Racibórz flood control reservoir on the Odra River
           expanded to include a feasibility study on modernization of the Wroc·aw Floodway System
B.1.3.4    Operating expenses
B.1.5      Development of flood protection plans for the Upper Vistula river and a feasibility study
           - TASK ABANDONED: the Steering Committee's decision of February 18, 2004 -
           upon the motion of the Director of the MoE Water Resources Department
B.1.6      Additional equipment for RZGW in order to meet obligations resulting from the new water law,
           with special attention to the Flood Management Coordination and Information Centers' needs
B.1.6      Package I Supply and installation of computer equipment, IT networks, peripheral
           equipment, together with training
B.1.6      Package IIa Supply, installation and technical support of GIS software
B.1.6      Package IIb Additional supply and installation of GIS software, Intergraph type, and necessary
            users training
B.1.6      Package III Supply of ORACLE license
B.1.7      Preparation for implementation of the Odra River Basin Flood Protection Project

Subcomponent B.2.

B.2.1      Construction and implementation of the telemetric hydrological and meteorological measurement



                                                    - 51 -

          network
B.2.1.1   Individual consultant for preparation of RFP
B.2.1.2   Design of the telemetric hydrological and meteorological measurement network
B.2.1.3   Construction of the telemetric hydrological and meteorological measurement network
B.2.2     Upgrade of hydrological warning and forecasting system
B.2.2.1   Individual consultant for preparation of RFP
B.2.2.2   Design of hydrological warning and forecasting system
B.2.2.3   Software and implementation of IT system for the warning and forecasting system
B.2.2.4   Development of alternative forecasting models for mountainous areas. Adaptation of existing
          models to the new system [B.2.2.5]
B.2.2.5   Purchase of computer equipment, accessories and application software
B.2.2.5 A Purchase and installation of ORACLE database
B.2.2.5 B Upgrade of IMGW's IT infrastructure for the Hydrology System
B.2.2.5 C Uninterruptable power supply for IMGW units and connecting regional observation and
          measurement stations to the IMGW wide area network. Purchase of computer equipment and
          software for the State Meteorological and Hydrological Service systems.
B.2.2.5 D Purchase of office equipment for meteorological and hydrological forecasting offices
B.2.3     Upgrade of data transmission and processing systems in forecasting offices and airport
          meteorological offices
B.2.3.1   Consultant for preparation of technical specifications
B.2.3.2   Upgrade of data transmission and processing systems in forecasting offices and airport
          meteorological offices
B.2.4     Implementation of the meteorological forecasting model into operational practice
B.2.4.1   Consultant for preparation of technical specifications
B.2.4.2   Implementation of the meteorological forecasting model into operational practice -
B.2.5     Upgrade of IMGW's IT system and the Customer Service System and implementation of task
          B.1.1.2 [communications of Coordination and Information Centers]
B.2.5.1   Consultant for preparation of technical specifications
B.2.5.2   Upgrade of IMGW's IT system and the Customer Service System
B.2.7     Equipment for surveying and maintenance teams
B.2.7.1   Consultant for preparation of technical specifications
B.2.7.2   Purchase of geodetic instruments for surveying teams
B.2.7.3   Purchase of computer equipment for surveying and maintenance teams -
B.2.7.4   Equipment for surveying and maintenance services
B.2.7.5   Purchase and installation of equipment and accreditation of control laboratory for instruments
B.2.8     Installation and implementation of an automated lightning detection and location system
B.2.8.1   Consultant for preparation of technical specifications
B.2.8.2   Construction and implementation of an automated lightning detection and location system
B.2.9     Development of the POLRAD weather radar system
B.2.9.1   Consultant for preparation of technical specifications
B.2.9.2   Development of the weather radar system
B.2.10    Subcomponent B.2 management
B.2.10.1 First furnishings for the office of the Subcomponent Technical Support Team
B.2.10.2 Operating expenses
B.2.11    Not assigned
B.2.12    Technical support relating to quality supervision
B.2.12.1 Individual consultant for preparation of RFP
B.2.12.2 Consulting firm for technical support relating to quality supervision together with consultations
          [B.2.11 and other consultants]


                                                   - 52 -

B.2.13   Technical support for technical and construction supervision
B.2.13.1 Selection of individual consultant for preparation of RFP
B.2.13.2 Consulting firm for technical and construction supervision
B.2.15.2 Preparation of assumptions for IMGW restructuring ­ TASK ABANDONED: the Steering
          Committee's decision - upon the motion of IMGW dated December 16, 2002
B.2.16.2 Modernization of aerological measurements system
B.2.16.2A Modernization of aerological measurements - construction adaptation works
B.2.16.2B Modernization of aerological measurements - purchase and installation of instruments

Subcomponent B.4.

B.4.1     Local Flood Management Units (BLOP) in Wroc·aw and Kraków - Technical Support Units
          (TSU)
B.4.1.1   Development of principles of organization and operation
B.4.1.2   Selection of consultants for BLOPs (TSUs) in Wroc·aw and Kraków
B.4.1.4   Furnishings for two offices
B.4.1.4.1 Vehicles
B.4.1.4.2 Furniture
B.4.1.4.3 Office, presentation and computer equipment
B.4.2     Preparation of guidelines supporting the development of flood loss reduction and flood
          prevention plans and publication of handbooks
B.4.2.1   Determination of types of flood risk zones necessary to implement subcomponent B.4.
B.4.2.2   Development of methods of flood loss reduction and publication of handbooks
B.4.3     Local flood loss reduction and flood prevention plans
B.4.3.1   Selection of pilot units (Phase II) and evaluation of local plans for Phase I and Phase II
B.4.3.2   Conduct of training and education and information in pilot units ­ Phase I and II -
          ABANDONED by the Steering Committee's decision of May 7, 2001
B.4.3.3   Organization of local teams coordinating preparation of local flood loss reduction and flood
          prevention plans
B.4.3.3.1 Phase I
B.4.3.4   Consulting services to support preparation and implementation of plans in Phase I and II
B.4.4     Analysis of options to implement a flood insurance system in Poland - ABANDONED by the
          Steering Committee's decision of February 27, 2002
B.4.5     Implementation of local flood loss reduction and flood prevention plans
B.4.5.1   Goods procured for the needs of achieving readiness and ways of responding to hazards (partly
          grants depending on B.4.3.1)
B.4.5.1.1 Phase I
B.4.5.1.2 Phase II
B.4.5.2   Minor works (partly grants depending on B.4.3.1 outputs)
B.4.5.2.1 Phase I
B.4.5.2.2 Phase II
B.4.6     Short-term consulting services to support preparation and implementation of local flood loss
          reduction and flood prevention plans
B.4.6.1   Reviews - at the level of the implementing agency (PCU)

Implementing agencies for Subcomponent B1 were Regional Water Management Boards (RZGWs) in
Wroc·aw, Kraków and Pozna·, for Subcomponent B.2. - the Institute of Meteorology and Water
Management in Warsaw, whereas for Subcomponent B.4. the implementing agency was the PCU. These
agencies were responsible for the implementation of Component B tasks.


                                                    - 53 -

                     B1                                        B2                B4
Implementing         Regional Water       PCU reporting to the Institute of      Project Coordination
agencies             Management Boards Ministry of Interior Meteorology and      Unit in Wroc·aw
                     (RZGWs) ­ in         and Administration Water Management reporting to the Head
                     Wroc·aw, Kraków      Preparation of the   (IMGW) in Warsaw of the Chancellery of
                     and Pozna· reporting Odra River Basin     supervised by the the Prime Minister
                     to the Ministry of   Flood Protection     Ministry of
                     Environment          Project              Environment
Date of signing      April 1, 1999        July 2003*****       May 19, 1999      April 2, 1999
orders to carry out
the work scheduled
for implementation
under subcomponent
B.1 and the
Agreement relating
to the
implementation of
Subcomponent B.2.
Number of tasks to
be      implemented
under        separate
World           Bank
procurement          10 tasks **          7 tasks              29 tasks****      38 tasks
procedures in acc.
with              the
Implementation
Schedule          for
Component          B,
approved    by    the
Steering Committee
on August 25, 2004
Estimated value of
the   World     BankUS$ 16,365,509        US$ 2,100,000        US$ 63,334,491    US$ 4,430,962
Loan necessary for
implementation     of
tasks
Number of tasks      -----                -----                -----             -----
launched

Number     of   tasks 10 tasks            7 tasks              29 tasks          38 tasks
completed

Total Loan amount                                                                US$ 4,430,961.84
paid   out   for  theUS$16,646,353.18 US$1,234, 966.11         US$63,339,068.03
implementation     of
tasks



                                                 - 54 -

Total Loan amount
allocated    for   theUS$16,643,772.45 US$ 1,081,904.38             US$63,069,582.94 US$ 4,430,961.84
implementation      of
tasks and accounted
for at the PCU level
Scheduled date ofDecember 15, 2005            Dec. 15, 2005         Dec. 15, 2005      Nov. 14, 2002.***
completion    of   the
implementation      of
tasks
* The date given relates to the establishment of two technical support units ­ BLOP Wroc·aw and BLOP
Kraków, which supported the implementation of B.4 Subcomponent tasks.
**Additionally - three tasks were abandoned by the Project Steering Committee's decisions (B.1.1.1,
B.1.3.2, B.1.5)
*** This date indicates the date of final accounting for the last task implemented under B.4 subcomponent
**** Additionally - two tasks were abandoned by the Project Steering Committee's decision (B.2.15.1 and
B.2.15.2).
*****The date indicated relates to the approval by the Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of
       amendments in the PCU Organization Rules which allowed the              "Racibórz Reservoir" Project
       Preparation Unit to be formed.

Basin flood management planning (Subcomponent B.1) consisted in creating a modular geographic
information system for flood prevention needs, emergency planning and preparation of preventive measures.
IT systems (GIS, databases) applied here and digital technology allowed a huge amount of data on flood
risk areas to be collected and digital topographic maps and the digital terrain model (DTM) to be
developed. It enables the simulation and hydrodynamic modeling of the flood extent in case of dike failures,
large water discharge from retention reservoirs or large run-offs resulting from precipitation, in accordance
with pre-defined different scenarios. The database of the system is fed with information from the digital
terrain model, information from topographic and thematic maps, as well as with data from meteorological
and hydrological monitoring systems. Outputs of mathematical models, aerial and satellite photos and
digital maps are used for their operations by three Flood Management Coordination and Information
Centers (OKI Centers), established under this Subcomponent, which operate within the area of the main
basins of the country. Equipped with modern equipment which enables a situation analysis to be made upon
the occurrence of any flood risk, as well as flood management planning in the period when there are no
flood risks, specialist personnel of the Coordination and Information Centers make graphic analyses,
interpret events and work out relevant decisions. Under this Subcomponent, the Feasibility Study for the
Racibórz flood control reservoir on the Odra river and the study for the Wroc·aw Floodway System were
also prepared, as well as the "Odra River Basin Flood Protection" project was prepared for implementation.
It comprises two large investment projects: the construction of the Racibórz reservoir and the modernization
of the Wroc·aw Floodway System. "Monitoring, forecasting and warning" (Subcomponent B.2.) involved
the creation of a system for monitoring hydrological and meteorological conditions within the territory of
Poland, which would facilitate forecasting and warning against dangerous natural phenomena, as well as
the collection and dissemination of information and outputs relating to the current state of the hydrosphere
and atmosphere. This system is linked in a certain way to outcomes and outputs of Subcomponent B1 tasks,
in particular, with respect to the development of the digital terrain model or the preparation of all river
channel cross sections.

From August 31, 2000 until June 15, 2005 all planned tasks were performed relating to supplies,
installation works and IT works under Subcomponent B2 ­ the National Monitoring and Protection System



                                                     - 55 -

(SMOK System), which in practice covered the modernization of main areas of operation of the State
Hydrological and Meteorological Service of the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management. The
implementing agency for all Subcomponent B2 tasks was IMGW Warsaw. In total, 26 contracts for a total
amount of about PLN300,000,000 were implemented. 33 contractors and consortium members, as well as
57 subcontractors and suppliers, participated in the modernization.

In effect, the process of modernization of the State Hydrological and Meteorological Service of the Institute
of Meteorology and Water Management was completed, and the system built is being implemented for
operational practice at the Institute. The telemetric system of the measurement network is made up of 989
posts. Along with the construction of the network, network management software was developed, that is,
among others, data collection, processing, archiving and visualization and the provision of data to other
modules of the National Monitoring and Protection System. The territory of the whole country is covered
with monitoring, but with different degrees of saturation with installations.

The modernization process, whose scale and implementation time are unique world-wide, led to the creation
of the technically and technologically very modern State Hydrological and Meteorological Service of the
Institute of Meteorology and Water Management.

"Prevention and flood risk reduction" (Subcomponent B.4.) consisted in flood mitigation by means of
organizational and legal measures, i.e., the so-called non-structural methods which included: the preparation
of flood warning systems, protection of structures located in floodplains and the preparation of residents
and land users in floodplains for flood. Gminas and poviats were provided with support in the preparation
of their own flood mitigation programs, incorporating primarily nonstructural methods of flood loss
reduction. These methods included, inter alia, the preparation of floodplain maps for the base flood, the
expansion of knowledge and awareness of local communities, technical assistance how to prepare for flood
and how to respond to it, addressed to local governments and administration, as well information policy
how to create individual conditions to reduce risks to human life and property. Pilot Local Flood Loss
Reduction and Flood Prevention Plans were prepared and implemented. Such pilot local flood loss
reduction and flood prevention plans were implemented in two phases. In the first phase, programs for four
local government units were prepared and implemented, whereas in the second phase, for the next eight
units. The program implementation was supported by two Technical Support Units operating under the
name of Local Flood Management Units (BLOP) in Wroc·aw and Kraków, whose operations covered the
Upper and Middle Odra river and the Upper Vistula river.

B. Major Performance Measures

The Project performance is considered satisfactory. The implementation of Subcomponent B.1. tasks led to
improvement of the flood management system, and to a large extent it reduced flood risks. Thanks to the
implementation of this program, the Flood Management Coordination and Information Centers were formed
and implemented in Kraków, Wroc·aw and Gliwice, and they were furnished with the most modern
computer and logistic equipment, as well as necessary software and simulation models. Activities of these
Centers are chiefly related to flood prevention and management. Their operations cover the Odra and
Vistula river basins. They support administrative and operational actions undertaken during draughts, as
well as during floods. The database provides access to any necessary information relating to flood
forecasting, flood management and measures designed to mitigate flood effects. The construction of the
Digital Terrain Model and the use of digital maps enable the identification of threatened zones and
structures, adjustment of spatial development plans for these zones, identification of weak points in existing
flood protection structures and support of emergency actions. A complete set of planning documentation
was prepared, necessary for the implementation of the Odra River Basin Flood Protection Project.


                                                     - 56 -

Under Subcomponent B.2., a comprehensive system was created which streamlines and also facilitates
forecasting and warning against dangerous natural phenomena, as well as the collection and dissemination
of information on the current state of the hydrosphere and atmosphere. A system for automatic monitoring
and forecasting of conditions of the hydrosphere and atmosphere was created. The comprehensive
presentation of the current hydrological and meteorological situation is provided to the Coordination and
Information Centers operating attached to basin management boards, which in turn take relevant decisions
based on it. The technically and technologically very modern State Hydrological and Meteorological
Service of the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management was also created.

The implemented Subcomponent B.4. produced materials in the form of guidelines, studies and experiences
which can be used by gminas not participating in the program. Effective flood loss reduction methods and
preventive measures in this area were tested in practice and selected in Polish conditions. Principles of
constructing local flood warning systems were developed and implemented in pilot gminas. Adequate
information dissemination structures were also created, which incorporate cooperation with the media
through, among other things, publications and websites on the Internet. A series of 7 handbooks was
published under the common title "Flood mitigation in local scale".

The joint achievement of all Subcomponents under Component B is trained specialized personnel necessary
for the correct operation of the flood management systems created under the Project and personnel at the
decision-making level. The implementing agencies were furnished with appropriate computer equipment
which allows them to perform their tasks efficiently. The flood warning system was also streamlined, what
in effect minimizes losses before, during and after flood.

A delay in the implementation of Component B was primarily attributable to problems associated with the
Project implementation in the first phase of implementation, since the initially prepared Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) for Component B proved to be wrong and impossible to be implemented. The
work on the implementation of Component B tasks was launched only after the new Implementation Plan
was prepared in 2001. Initially, the application of the World Bank procedures, generally new to the
implementing agencies, in the selection of contractors also proved to be a difficulty. Another reason which
contributed to the prolonged time of implementation of tasks was significant amendments in Polish laws.

C. Assessment of Development Objective and Design and of Quality at Entry

Almost immediately after the 1997 flood had abated, the Government of Poland took very intensive
recovery measures. The implementation of the Emergency Flood Recovery Project was launched on an
emergency basis on January 13, 1998. In the Project Implementation Plan, prepared on November 19,
1997, a US$80mn allocation was made for Component B purposes. The Project was of urgent nature, and
its aim was to support the Polish Government's actions designed to reduce threats and risks of any possible
floods in the future through the carrying out of most urgent repairs in the flood management system and
improvement in policy and institutional capabilities in the implementation of a more efficient flood
management system.

The measure of performance of the central government and voivodships located within the Odra river
catchment was the creation of a more effective flood management system which would reduce effects of
future floods. The implementation of Subcomponent B tasks was assigned to such implementing agencies
as: IMGW, RZGWs in Wroc·aw, Krakow and Pozna·, and in the case of Subcomponent B.4., the PCU.
The Project Coordination Unit was the agency which coordinated the entire project.




                                                     - 57 -

The selection of contractors and consultants, which proved to be necessary in the implementation
of articular contracts, was carried out in accordance with the World Bank requirements.

The flood exposed poor technical and organizational capabilities of important centers responsible for the
information and decision-taking side in the case of the occurrence of such a large threat which the said flood
was. An important element in the operation of the Regional Water Management Boards (RZGWs) is the
water management IT system introduced in the Water Law, amended in 1997, which cannot operate without
appropriate equipment and software. The economic situation prevailing then in the country made it
impossible for almost every RZGW to start the implementation of the IT system due to the lack of adequate
equipment and GIS software. With regard to flood protection, where procedure algorithms for modeling
flood events were known, tools for their implementation were lacking. Under the Emergency Flood
Recovery Project, several tasks were formulated designed to radically change the above described situation.
The aim of one of these tasks (B.1.6) was to create such a technical level and training level which would
enable the Water Law provisions to be implemented. Its implementation aimed to equalize the level of all
RZGWs in terms of IT equipment and personnel training. During the development of the implementation
plan for the Emergency Flood Recovery Project in the years 1998 ­1999, the main assumption for the IT
system was:
a.       to equip all RZGWs with the most modern equipment and software in a quantity which would
enable a large and coherent IT system to be created
b.       to develop a user-friendly application of the full water management IT system and to implement it
in all RZGWs
c.       to utilize computing capabilities of the system for the creation of the Water Management IT
System (not to be satisfied with only the flood protection           module)
d.       to treat all RZGWs on equal terms

Among other things, it was planned to procure equipment and software for all RZGWs, to develop the
digital terrain model (DTM) and digital topographic map for all valleys of Poland's main rivers and all
larger tributaries of the Upper Vistula river and the Upper Odra river, to develop cross sections for most
rivers in Poland, a GIS application supporting flood protection tasks carried out by the Coordination and
Information Centers. This application was to form the basis for the water management IT system.

As a result of different twists and turns under the Emergency Flood Recovery Project, implemented since
December 1997, changes in the conceptual design of this project, changes of the implementing agencies,
etc., it was only in 2002 that the concept to equip all RZGWs with modern equipment and software was
revived.

IMGW, as the implementing agency for Subcomponent B2, also needed co- financing from aid funds to
streamline its operations. This subcomponent of the Project envisaged the creation of the National
Monitoring and Protection System ­ SMOK System. The Upper Vistula Hydrological Protection System
"VISTEL", built at the beginning of the 90s, served as a model for this system. This system repeatedly
proved efficient during floods with different intensity. However, due to its power supply dependence on the
power grid and the location of posts too low above the water-table, it could fail during the occurrence of
such a large flood as in 1997. Streamlining the provision of information to the State authorities and
enhancing the operational effectiveness of the State Hydrological and Meteorological Service of the
Institute of Meteorology and Water Management during natural disasters, through the upgrade of the
Service's technical facilities, were also of great importance.

The PCU was the implementing agency responsible for implementation of Subcomponent B.4., designed to



                                                      - 58 -

provide support to gminas in the preparation of their own flood mitigation programs. They primarily
included nonstructural methods of flood loss reduction. Until then, these methods had not been used in
Poland in a systematic and well-thought-out way. There was a need to raise the public awareness and
expertise of persons involved in the implementation of Local Flood Loss Reduction and Flood Prevention
Plans. The preparation and implementation of these plans was the main objective of this Subcomponent.

D. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs.

Objectives and outputs of Subcomponent B, Flood Management and flood prevention, were achieved to
the satisfactory degree. The system covered two main basins of the country: the basins of the Odra and
Vistula rivers. Although the scope of the project was extremely far-reaching and complicated, most of
Subcomponent B tasks were implemented successfully.

Under Subcomponent B.1, a basin flood management planning system was created. Three Flood
Management Coordination and Information Centers were formed, furnished with modern computer and
logistic equipment, as well as software (GIS, Geomedia package, ARCGIS package and Oracle database)
and simulation models. The aim of the operation of the Coordination and Information Centers is to collect,
process and provide information related to flood protection. This information is based on the Digital Terrain
Model and topographic maps. Flood risk maps were also prepared by means of hydrodynamic modeling.
The level of all Regional Water Management Boards was equalized, and they were furnished with the most
modern IT equipment and their personnel were adequately trained. As a result, a system was created
which enables:
-        identification of threatened zones and structures, adjustment of spatial development plans for these
zones and preparation of people,
-        identification of weak points in existing flood protection structures,
-        support of emergency and rescue actions, verification of new investment projects for hydraulic
structures.

During the Project implementation, the Steering Committee took a decision to discontinue two tasks
included in Subcomponent B.1.; the first one related to: Development of a flood management strategy for
the Upper and Middle Odra river and a strategy for the Upper Vistula river, whereas the other one:
Development of flood management plans for the Upper Vistula river and a feasibility study. The delayed
work under task B.1.2.3.2 (DTM) made it impossible to use the Digital Terrain Model and digital
topographic maps for verification and calibration of the Odra river model for Wroc·aw which was under
construction and for activities included in the work on the feasibility study for the Wroc·aw Floodway
System. Thus, the authors of the study made use of the Odra valley model constructed based on surveying
measurements, valley cross sections and other specific data for the city of Wroc·aw.

Under task B.1.1.2 (Coordination and Information Centers), a part of procurements was abandoned due to
the lack of funds resulting from a low exchange rate of the US dollar at that time.

Under Subcomponent B.2., all planned tasks were performed relating to supplies, installation works and IT
works, except for task B.2.15.2 Preparation of assumptions for IMGW restructuring; the Polish side
discontinued its implementation upon the motion of IMGW. The National Monitoring and Protection
System (SMOK System) was created, which in practice covered the modernization of main areas of
operation of the State Hydrological and Meteorological Service of the Institute of Meteorology and Water
Management. The system built is being implemented for operational practice at the Institute.




                                                     - 59 -

The aim of this project was to create in the country a comprehensive, modern system for monitoring,
forecasting and warning against dangerous natural phenomena (floods, strong winds, storms, etc.), as well
as for collection and dissemination of information on the current and expected state of the hydrosphere and
atmosphere. The system covers the whole territory of Poland. Although the National Monitoring and
Protection System is chiefly orientated towards flood management, but its main assumptions also include
monitoring, forecasting and warning against other phenomena such as storms, very strong winds, sea
storms. This system will also operate effectively in case of prolonged draughts, frosty winters with heavy
snowfalls, pollution of running waters and radioactive contamination of air.

In effect, modern technical facilities and a methodological base were created which enable precise, reliable
meteorological and hydrological protection of the national economy and society.

Under Subcomponent B.4., Local Flood Loss Reduction and Flood Prevention Plans were prepared and
implemented in twelve territorial self-government units. Measures taken under local flood mitigation plans
had the following effects: construction developments in floodplains were restricted, structures located in
floodplains were modernized and protected against flooding; systems were prepared which enable people,
firms and institutions to be warned against coming threats; flood response systems were prepared which
enable organized and efficient protection or rescue actions. Methods were also defined and handbooks on
flood mitigation methods were prepared in territorial self-government units. The effect of all these activities
was to enhance the society's and the authorities' capability to reduce their susceptibility to flood risks.

Under this Subcomponent, the Steering Committee took a decision to abandon the task relating to Conduct
of training and education and information in pilot units. The Committee also took a decision to
discontinue the task Analysis of options to implement a flood insurance system in Poland, since the
material presented by the Contractor proved to be unacceptable.

Thanks to efficient cooperation of persons involved in the Program on the side of the Bank, the Government
and the coordinating agency, the PCU, as well as the implementing agencies, the intended objectives and
outputs were achieved. In spite of the discontinuation of the implementation of certain tasks, which were of
peripheral importance to the main goals of the Project, an integrated flood management system was created
covering two main basins of the country.

E.       Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation and Outcome

Factors beyond the control of the Government or PCU

The need for following the World Bank procurement procedures, especially international procurement
procedures, by the beneficiaries and PCU was often a delaying factor in the implementation. On the other
hand, the possibility of selecting contractors and suppliers by the application of these procedures
contributed to transparency of the tendering process and to selection of the most advantageous bid out of a
range of bids from practically the whole world, thus giving a chance to gain the most up-to-date
technologies.

The Project outcome was affected by fluctuations in PLN to US dollar exchange rates, which varied
significantly during the Project implementation period ranging between 2.9845 and 4.6975. In 2005 the low
US dollar exchange rate caused a part of tasks to be limited.

In the course of the Project implementation, the construction law provisions were amended, inter alia, with
respect to the obtaining of building permits, what caused long delays in the implementation of certain tasks


                                                    - 60 -

under Subcomponent B.2.

Factors generally in control of the Government


The Government was responsible for releasing funds for the Project implementation upon the PCU's
application.

The Special Account was maintained by the Ministry of Finance. The transfer of funds was different for
Subcomponent B4, for which the PCU was the implementing agency, than for Subcomponents B1 and B2,
supervised by the Ministry of Environment.

Under all Subcomponents, applications for funds were submitted via the PCU. Funds were released by the
Ministry of Finance, for Subcomponent B4 through the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, and for
Subcomponents B1 and B2 through the Chancellery of the Prime Minister (later on, the Ministry of Interior
and Administration) and the Ministry of Environment.

The number of institutions involved in the process of releasing financial resources prolonged the time
necessary for processing an application, what sometimes put at risk the financial liquidity of the Project
with the pool of funds restricted to the authorized allocation limit.

At the same time, the national system for budgetary transfers, which the World Bank loan proceeds were
also subjected to, made it impossible to use such facilities as direct disbursements from the Loan account or
special commitments.

Factors generally in control of implementing agencies

During the implementation of certain tasks, the implementing agency changed (sometimes even twice).
There were also tasks for which it was not easy to select a procurement procedure, what sometimes caused
its change in the course of the bidding process. For most of Subcomponents B.1 and B.2. tasks, individual
consultants were selected to prepare bidding documents, which was a factor supporting agencies
responsible for the implementation of these tasks. In the course of the implementation of Subcomponent
B.2., IMGW also cooperated with consulting firms in quality supervision and technical and construction
supervision.

Similarly the PCU, as the implementing agency in the Subcomponent B.4. implementation, based itself on
cooperation with consultants of the Local Flood Management Units in Wroc·aw and Kraków, the consultant
who technically supported the development of digital models of flood risk zones for pilot gminas,
consultants-coordinators for organization of local teams coordinating the preparation of Local Flood Loss
Reduction and Flood Prevention Plans, and field consultants who provided expert's reports supporting the
implementation of Local Flood Loss Reduction and Flood Prevention Plans.

The cooperation of the implementing agencies with contractors was generally satisfactory. However, in the
case of one conflict relating to a Subcomponent B.4. task, it was necessary to settle the said dispute through
international arbitration. This matter ended in success for the contracting authority under the Project,
represented by the PCU. But the other conflict, related to the implementation of a Subcomponent B.1. task,
can be referred to arbitration in the near future; the contracting authority under the Project will be
represented by RZGW Kraków.




                                                     - 61 -

F.       Long-term Sustainability of the Project

In the case of such a complex and wide-reaching Project in terms of its scope, made up of different flood
management systems, such as: systems for flood management planning, monitoring, forecasting and
warning against dangerous meteorological and hydrological phenomena, as well as local flood protection
systems utilizing nonstructural procedure methods, the long-term sustainability of the Project will be
affected by different factors, but the most important factor will be funds for their maintenance.

Very modern equipment and software with very high operational parameters were procured for the needs of
effective operation and implementation of the programs of the Coordination and Information Centers, as
well as RZGW and IMGW units. It can be assumed that in spite of the fact that progress in IT is very fast,
the purchased equipment guarantees that it will remain modern for at least a 5-year period of use. With the
lowering technical parameters, due to natural aging, this equipment and software may still serve another 3-5
years. Worth noticing are high computing capabilities of the delivered equipment and software which can be
used for any needs arising in the relevant units - beneficiaries of the Project.

In the case of the implemented Subcomponent B.2 and the modernization of the State Hydrological and
Meteorological Service carried out thereunder, which lasted about 5 years, it has already turned out that
some systems and equipment are obsolete and depleted, and this process is taking place very fast. A good
example is a supercomputer, which has been in operation since 2001, and processors used in it are already
withdrawn from production. It was predominantly a computing and IT project, and a very dynamic
development of technologies in these areas causes such systems and installations to age technically and
morally very quickly.

It turns out that the abovementioned implemented projects, such as the Coordination and Information
Centers and DTM, are only the first step in building the defined system. The further development and
usefulness of the work completed or procurements will depend on financial possibilities of the maintenance
of trained personnel and investments in their further development, as well as on the maintenance of tools
(equipment, software - upgrade, etc.).

G.       Overall Bank and Borrower Performance

Borrower

The Borrower's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. There was close cooperation at the time
of preparation between the Government and the Bank, and the clear vision of the goal which the Project is
designed to serve ensured the appropriate and fast preparation of the Program for Poland.

Government implementation performance

The Government's implementation performance is assessed as satisfactory. The Government fulfilled all
key provisions of the Loan Agreement. It accomplished its tasks by assigning its duties to appropriate
institutions which were able to implement the Project.

Performance of implementing agencies

The implementing agencies' performance is assessed as satisfactory. In spite of many difficulties which the
implementing agencies faced during the Project implementation, the Project was successfully completed.
The dollar exchange rate fluctuations, complicated (used for the first time by some agencies) procurement



                                                     - 62 -

procedures of the World Bank, as well amendments in Polish laws all resulted in the prolongation of the
Project closing date and failure to complete it within the originally expected time limit.

Most of the implementing agencies entered into a direct contact with the World Bank, what facilitated
communications and agreement-making between both parties.

Overall Borrower performance

The overall performance of the Borrower during the Emergency Flood Recovery Project related to the July
1997 flood is assessed as satisfactory.

Bank

The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. Appropriate staff was assigned to lending
activities, with several key members maintained throughout the whole supervision period.
Supervision missions included specialists with the required high expertise and experience, and Project
activities were monitored by local staff throughout the Project on an on-going basis. One of the most
positive aspects was the Bank's flexibility in responding to the PCU's and implementing agencies'
proposals, e.g., regarding approval of proposed modifications in the contracts already made.

H. Lessons Learned

The rule that all expenditures are accounted for at the US dollar exchange rate prevailing on the date of
withdrawal of funds from the Special Account and the separate accounting for foreign exchange
gains/losses each time proved to be a great problem. This rule caused the amount of performed accounting
operations and recorded data to be multiplied, with the simultaneous lack of appropriate computer software.



I.       Partner Comments

    1. RZGW Pozna·, as one of the implementing agencies under Subcomponent B.1., draws attention to
         the following problems:
         -  significant involvement on the part of employees of this agency in the Project implementation,
             who assumed additional duties and great responsibility. The performance of additional work
             often forced them to go beyond their contractual working time, without any additional
             compensation. Hence the suggestion that implementation procedures for projects financed from
             foreign loans should provide for the possibility of compensating employees of implementing
             agencies. But now RZGW suggests that the possibility should be considered of giving all
             Project participants a thank-you souvenir, in the form of a plaque, diploma or statute, as
             symbolic appreciation of their contribution in the Program implementation.

         -   RZGW stresses very good cooperation with the PCU and the World Bank representatives. The
             PCU assisted in conducting all procedures, both required under the Polish law and required by
             the World Bank. It helped to obtain quickly the World Bank's decisions, to secure the Loan
             proceeds and counterpart funds in due time (there had been some problems with that in the
             past), all decisions which could help in the timely implementation of the task were taken
             quickly. In the opinion of RZGW this fact needs to be emphasized, since the PCU was sparsely
             staffed, but its personnel was thoroughly component and well managed. Special assistance was
             provided during financial accounting for tasks.



                                                     - 63 -

         In turn, the World Bank representatives demonstrated far-reaching understanding of the
         implementing agency's problems, what in effect resulted in "no objections" being given quickly
         at each stage of the implementation. In the opinion of RZGW, both the PCU management and
         the World Bank representatives deserve special appreciation for fast approval of direct
         contracting procurement of software and for assistance in the implementation of additional
         procurements, in spite of procedural doubts. Thanks to a sensible approach to this matter, it
         was possible to carry out procurements and the Loan proceeds were utilized.

       - fluctuations of the US dollar exchange rate against the local currency were also a problem.
         When the US dollar exchange rate was on the rise, there was no problem, but when it was
         dropping, a problem arose. Such situations should be taken care of, since implementing
         agencies unrightly bear the consequences of agreements so concluded.

2.     RZGW Kraków (the implementing agency for a part of Subcomponent B.1. tasks):
       - it is of opinion that cooperation with the PCU came down primarily to approval of statements
         of expenditures in technical, formal and accounting terms. But substantive and technical
         support for the implementing agency was lacking.

       - it also suggests that the system of accountings should be simplified and information flow
         should be streamlined, e.g., through the participation of implementing agencies in meetings of
         the Steering Committee and also through the building of a system of substantive and technical
         consultancy for implementing agencies.

3.     IMGW Warsaw, the implementing agency for Subcomponent B.2., draws attention to the following
issues:
       - the continuity of operation of the new system is at risk due to disruptions in access to funds
         necessary to ensure the sustainability / continuity of the operation of the SMOK system.
         Permanent access to funds for maintenance and development is of key significance in order to
         ensure the continuity of operation and maintenance of all elements of the modernized State
         Hydrological and Meteorological Service. Therefore, securing funds in a sufficient amount and
         for a period longer than the current year is the greatest worry of IMGW management.

       - in order to ensure an efficient project implementation and to fulfill contractual obligations by
         IMGW, it is very important to provide smooth financing and timely transfer of funds from the
         budget; to this end, it is necessary to simplify the Bank's procedures for account-making and
         obtaining new funds, and to streamline the transfer of funds to IMGW. Disruptions in project
         financing caused most problems during the performance of contracts.

       - the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) supported the Institute through, in particular, advisory
         services and financial coordination, contributing to proper financial control of the entire
         project. Nevertheless, at the beginning of the Project, IMGW expected greater procedural
         assistance in the organization of the bidding process, and repeatedly it had to handle itself
         arising problems.

       - consultant services were of particular significance at the initial phase of contract performance,
         when IMGW was starting to gain experience and skills in project management and technical
         support in implementation of construction works, since the Institute does not employ specialists
         who could supervise construction works.




                                                 - 64 -

         In future projects IMGW would expect small support from consultants in project quality
              management and technical support, only in the event that exceptionally complicated technical
              problems occur.

         -    IMGW's participation in a project of this scale and importance was an excellent opportunity to
              gain practical experience in preparation of the bidding process and contracts in accordance
              with the Bank's procedures and, in particular, in management of implementation of very
              complicated projects involving the construction of systems based on advanced technologies.

         -    Technical knowledge of IMGW employees at the highest world level and new skills
              acquired during the project implementation will allow IMGW to offer the provision of
              consulting services by its employees in similar projects.

J. Additional information

The participation of the PCU consultants in the preparation for implementation of the next investment
project, "Odra River Basin Flood Protection" Project, under task B.1.7 of this Project, proved to be a
good move. The PCU employees and consultants served with their experience already in the phase of
preparation of the project in technical terms, as well as in the preparation of the loan agreement itself.
Having adequate experience, preparation and expertise on the new Project, they were able to participate in
its implementation and during its performance.

COMPONENT C

Project administration

Project Coordination Unit

In accordance with the provisions of the World Bank Loan Agreement No. 4264 POL of December 23,
1997 and the Project Implementation Plan of November 19, 1997 the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in
Wroc·aw was formed in order to ensure project administration and technical support.

The Project Coordination Unit was established based on the ordinances no. 1/98 and 2/98 of the Minister ­
Member of the Council of Minister, Jerzy Widzyk, of November 13, 1997, and May 4, 1998, issued in
connection with the Loan Agreement No. 4264 POL made on December 23, 1997 between the Republic of
Poland and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, relating to the Emergency Flood
Recovery Project. The Project Coordination Unit was established for the period of implementation of
projects financed under the Loan Agreement No. 4264 POL.

Initially, the Project Coordination Unit was reporting to the Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister,
whereas after the coming into effect of the decree of the Prime Minister of December 23, 2004, amending
the decree regarding the specific scope of operation of the Minister of Interior and Administration (Dz. U. (
Journal of Laws) of 2004, No. 283, item 2818), and the ordinance No. 118 of the Prime Minister of
December 23, 2004, amending the ordinance regarding the grant of charter to the Chancellery of the Prime
Minister (M.P. (Polish Monitor) of 2004 No. 56, item 953), the ordinance No. 120 of the Prime Minister of
December 23, 2004, amending the ordinance regarding the grant of charter to the Ministry of Interior and
Administration (M.P. of 2004 No. 56, item 954) ­ the Project Coordination Unit was reporting to the
Ministry of Interior and Administration.



                                                    - 65 -

The Project Coordination Unit coordinated all Project activities through (i) supporting the implementing
agencies; (ii) administration, accounting and financial management; (iii) providing technical support to the
implementing agencies in the carrying out of public procurements; (iv) monitoring and evaluation, and (vi)
reporting.

In particular, under the task of (i) supporting the implementing agencies, the PCU prepared work programs
under the Project. Work programs were modified to reflect the actual state of implementations and
modifications of objectives and needs.

Under Component A, in addition to the basic list included in the Project Implementation Plan of November
19, 1997 two additional lists were prepared: the prim and bis lists. The PCU hired external individual
consultants and consulting firms, which supported the PCU in the coordination and supervision of the
Component A implementation.

Under Component B, the Component Implementation Schedule was prepared, which was later regularly
updated. The last version of the Schedule was approved by the Steering Committee on October 28, 2005.
The PCU participated on a current basis in the settlement of disputes arising in the course of
implementation of tasks, provided information on procedures, eligibility criteria and other World Bank
regulations and the interpretation thereof, provided access to the World Bank guidelines, as well as it
represented the implementing agencies in matters requiring the World Bank's acceptance.

With respect to (ii) administration, accounting and financial management, the PCU prepared for the
implementing agencies procedures for obtaining the World Bank loan proceeds for financing tasks covered
by work programs and procedures for technical and financial accounting for expenditures incurred from
these funds and from state budget counterpart funds.

Accounting for Component C expenditures was kept in accordance with the requirements of national
legislation and the World Bank criteria, as well as records were kept for expenditures incurred under
Components A and B in accordance with the World Bank criteria and requirements.

Funds were released to the implementing agencies in accordance with the provisions of Annex H to the
Project Implementation Plan. The PCU did not maintain the loan Special Account. The Special Account
was maintained by the Ministry of Finance. The World Bank loan proceeds were released by the Ministry
of Finance, for Component A through the Chancellery of the Prime Minister and further Voivodes
(Governors), for Component B through the Chancellery of the Prime Minister (later on, the Ministry of
Interior and Administration) and further the Ministry of Environment, for Component C the Chancellery of
the Prime Minister (later on, the Ministry of Interior and Administration).

The PCU produced to the World Bank accountings for all expenditures incurred from funds released under
50 withdrawal/replenishment applications. Expenditures accounted for were audited on an annual basis by
an independent auditor selected in accordance with the World Bank criteria, who conducted audits in
accordance with the Terms of Reference (ToR) recommended by the World Bank.

Technical support to the implementing agencies in the carrying out of public procurements (iii) was effected
chiefly through the preparation of implementation schedules, consultancy in the selection of procurement
procedures, expressing opinions and consultancy in the preparation of bidding documents, if necessary, the
participation of the PCU representatives in the work of evaluation commissions, expressing opinions and
consultancy in the preparation of contracts and amendments thereto.


                                                     - 66 -

With respect to monitoring and evaluation, (iv) the PCU approved technical and financial accountings for
expenditures incurred by the implementing agencies under all Components of the Project, verified their
compliance with the World Bank eligibility criteria and provisions of the national legislation, as well as
their compliance with work programs. Progress in implementations was monitored on an on-going basis and
work programs were modified accordingly, taking into account verified objectives and the availability of
funds. The main factor affecting modifications in the schedule was amendments in Polish legislation
(amendments in construction law, the Water Law Act) and fluctuations of the PLN exchange rate against
the US dollar.

The PCU fulfilled its reporting obligations (v) to government institutions, i.e., the Chancellery of the Prime
Minister, and later on the Ministry of Interior and Administration, Ministry of Environment and Ministry of
Finance, in accordance with the requirements defined at the beginning of the Project implementation, as well
as to the World Bank in accordance with rules applied by the WB. Quarterly reports submitted to the
World Bank and government institutions were the basic reporting document. Furthermore, reporting which
was the basis for release of funds was carried out on an on-going basis. In order to release funds to the
implementing agencies, reports were submitted to government institutions, whereas replenishment
applications submitted to the World Bank were the basis for replenishment of the Special Account.

The World Bank missions were conducted in Poland more or less twice a year, and special reports on
Project implementation were also prepared for these missions.

In addition, the PCU was the implementing agency for task B.7, coordinating all activities associated with
the preparation of a complete set of documents defining implementation conditions for the Odra River Basin
Flood Protection Project, as well as it participated in the process of interdepartmental agreements of
conditions for Project implementation and in drafting agreements with the Council of Europe Development
Bank and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.

The PCU was also the implementing agency for Subcomponent B4.

The Component C cost was US$7,115,200.75 from the World Bank loan proceeds, including the amount of
US$4,666,120.40 which was the cost of support in supervision over Component A implementations
provided by consulting firms. The Component C cost, including the Polish side's share, was
US$8,287,091.41.

The Steering Committee

The Steering Committee was also appointed; it was composed of representatives of the Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Environment, World Bank, PCU Director, and it was chaired by a representative of the Head of
the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, and later on, a representative of the Minister of Interior and
Administration.

The task of the Steering Committee was to facilitate activities required for the Project implementation and
related to decisions of political nature, as well as to take decisions strategic to the Project.




                                                       - 67 -

- 68 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 34706

                                          14°                                                    16°                                   18°                                                                       20°                                                       22°                                                                      24°



                                                                    B a l t i c        S e a                                                                                                                                     RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                  Gulf of Gdansk                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P O L A N D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FEDERATION                                                                                                    L I T H U A N I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EMERGENCY FLOOD RECOVERY
                                                                                                                                                                                ,
                                                                                                                                                                       Gdansk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT

     54°                                                                                                                    POMORSKIE                                                                                           ,                                                                                                                                       54°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WARMINSKO -
                                                                                                                                                                                              l
                                                                                                                                                                                               l l
                                                                                                                                                                                                  l

                                                               ZACHODNIOPOMORSKIE                                                                                                                  l                                                                                      Augustowski
                                                                                                                                                                                                    l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAZURSKIE                                                                Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                     l                                                                                                                                                                                                                SEVERELY FLOODED AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                         l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l l
                                                                                                                                                                                                          l                                                                                            l     l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l                               l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l    l   l       l
                                                                                                                                                                                     R.                  l                                                                                        l
                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                        l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l                                                                                                                    FLOODED AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Olsztyn                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                                                              Vistula                                                                                                               l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pisa                                                                                                                              Nysa            SEVERELY AFFECTED CITIES


                                                                     Szczecin                                                                                                                                                                                           R.                                                                                                                                            RIVER BASIN BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PODLASKIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                KUJAWSKOweca-R.
                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B E L A R U S
                                                      l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bialystok
                                                     l
                                                    l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CANALS
                                                  l
                                                l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l l l l l l l l l l l l

                                                                                                                            Bydgoszcz          POMORSKIE
                                           l l l                                                                                                                                        Dr
                                       l
                                        l
                                         l
                                                                                                                                                    Torun,
                                           l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROVINCE (VOIVODSHIP) CAPITALS
l l l l l l l l l l l l                     Odra
                        l       l l l l   l
                                                                                                   Notec R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Narew  R.
                                                      R.              Gorzów
                                                                    Wielkopolski                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                        Warta R.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DISTRICT (POWIAT) BOUNDARIES

                                                                      LUBUSKIE                ODRA                                                                                                                       MAZOWIECKIE                  Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROVINCE (VOIVODSHIP) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Vistula                                                                          R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Zeran-Zegrze
                                                 l                                                       Poznan,                                                                                                                                                                        Bug
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l


                                                   l           l                                                                                                                                                                      l                                                                                                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                     l  l                                                                                                                                                               Warsaw
                                                          l   l
                                                           l                                                                                                                                                       R.                l
                                                                                                        WIELKOPOLSKIE
                                                             l  l
                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (Warszawa)
                                                                  l
                                                                   l

                                                                             Krosno Odrzanskie
     52°                                                                         Odra R.                                                                                                                                       V I S T U L A                                                                                                                            52°

                                                                             Zielona
                                                                              Góra
                         GERMANY                                                          Nowa Sól          BASIN                                                                                                                                           Vistula                           l l   l  l l l  l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                                                            0                50                      100             150           200 KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                         , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lodz                                                                                                         l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l   l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R.                                                          l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                    Neisse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l                                      0           25                       50          75          100 MILES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                          LÓDZKIE                                                                                     R.                                             l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Wieprz                                                    l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           lWieprz-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Krzna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l




                                                                                                   ,                                                                                                                                                                               LUBELSKIE                                    l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l                     Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l                                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                            R.                                                                             B A S I N                                                  l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lublin                             l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l
                                                                                      DOLNOSLASKIE                  Wroclaw                                             arta                                                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l
                                                                                                                                                                       W                                                                                                                                                                                                             judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l                                                  acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                    Strzegom           Jelcz Laskowice

                                                                                        Swiebodzice                       Brzeg
                                                                                                       Swidnica                Odra                                                                                  , Kielce

                                                                                            Walbrzych      Dzierzoniow                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NORWAY                                                     ESTONIA

                                                                                                          Bielawa                    Opole                                                                           SWIETOKRZYSKIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                        Nowa Ruda                                                       ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SWEDEN                                             RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FEDERATION
                                                                                                           Klodzko       OPOLSKIE    R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R.                                                                                                                                                                          LATVIA
                                                                                                    Bystrzyca           Nysa          Krapkowice                       SLASKIE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Baltic Sea
                                                                                                    Klodzka                                                                                                                                                                            San                                                                     Bug
                                                                                                                         Glucholazy         Kedzierzyn-Kozle                  `                                                                            Vistula                                                                                                           NorthDENMARK
                                                                                                                                           l l                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R.
                                                                                                                                               l                                                                                                                                          R.
                                                                                                                                                 l l l l l l                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Area of map
                                                                                                                                                             l l l l
                                                                                                                                                  Gliwice                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LITHUANIA
                                                                                                                                                                     l
                                                                                                                                                                      l

                                                                                                                                                  Canal           Katowice

                                                                                                                                                Racibórz                                                                                                           PODKARPACKIE                                                                                                                                                    RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50°
     50°                                                         C Z E C H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BELARUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kraków                                                                Rzeszów
                                                                                                                                                                                           Kety
                                                    R E P U B L I C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Warsaw
                                                                                                                                                                                                            MALOPOLSKIE                                                                                                                                 U K R A I N E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P O L A N D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GERMANY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UKRAINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CZECH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SLOVAK                        MOLDOV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REP.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ROMANIA
   14°                                                                                   16°                                       18°                                                 S L O V A K                 20° R E P U B L I C                                                                                                                                                                    AUSTRIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                22°                                                                        24°               SWITZ.  LIECHT.                                  HUNGARY
                                                                     AUSTRIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JUNE 2006

