Page  1
CONFORMED COPY   
LOAN NUMBER 4264 POL
Loan Agreement
(Emergency Flood Recovery Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 23, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4264 POL
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has formulated a National Reconstruction and 
Modernization Program (the Program) for restoration of facilities and infrastructure 
damaged by flooding in the year 1997;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which constitutes a 
component of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
Page  2
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount. Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled." 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Basin Flood Management Coordination and Information Centers" means the 
Centers referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Beneficiary" means a municipal body or any other agency of the Borrower 
responsible for the carrying out of activities under Parts A and B of the Project;
(c)
"Eligibility Criteria" means the criteria adopted by the Borrower and 
included in the PIP for selection for financing from the proceeds of the Loan of 
investments under Parts A and B of the Project;
(d)
"Funding Agreement" means any Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and a Beneficiary pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Funding 
Agreement;
(e)
"Minister of Flood Recovery" means the Borrower’s Minister-Government 
Plenipotentiary for Flood Damages’ Recovery;
(f)
"Minister of Environment" means the Borrower’s Minister of Environmental 
Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry;
(g)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit reporting and providing support 
to the Minister of Flood Recovery and referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(h)
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan for the carrying out of the 
Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(j)
"Steering Committee" means the Committee referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement an amount equal to two 
hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000).
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in the 
National Bank of Poland or in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including, only in the case of use of a commercial bank, appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment, a special deposit account in 
Dollars.  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the office of the Minister of Flood Recovery with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, financial, 
administrative and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the 
Beneficiaries under a Funding Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
each Beneficiary, under standard terms and conditions which shall have been approved 
by the Bank and which shall include, inter alia, provisions with respect to:  
(i)  
a description of the activity to be financed under the Funding 
Agreement and the amount to be made available to the Beneficiary 
for the implementation thereof;  
(ii)
the provision to the Beneficiary of the Loan amount allocated to 
such activity in the form of a grant;
(iii)
the arrangement for implementation of such activity under the 
overall supervision of the PCU;
(iv)
undertakings of the Beneficiary to maintain separate records and 
accounts for such activity and to furnish the PCU with quarterly 
reports on progress of the implementation thereof;
(v)
the obligation of the Beneficiary to undertake, under the overall 
supervision of the PCU, the procurement of goods and works under 
such activity in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; and
(vi)
the technical assistance needs, if any, to be provided to the 
Beneficiary for implementation of the activity.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under any Funding Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive a Funding Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
Page  5
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such financial statements, records and accounts and 
a report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request; and
(iv)
(A) have the funds’ flow system for the Project evaluated by an 
appropriate auditing body by January 31, 1998; (B) furnish to the 
Bank a report on such evaluation by said auditing body by February 
28, 1998; and (C) review with the Bank said report within one 
month of said report’s submission to the Bank, and, thereafter, 
take all measures necessary to ensure the efficient flow of funds 
for the Project taking into account the Bank’s views on the 
matter.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during each 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Steering Committee has been established in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the PCU has been established in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the Borrower has initiated recruitment of the auditor referred to in 
paragraph (b) (i) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement and has provided the Bank a short 
list of auditors.
Page  6
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
ul. Swietokrzyska 12
00-916 Warsaw
Republic of Poland
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINF
815592 PL
Poland
814386 PL
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the City of Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
By /s/ Leszek Balcerowicz
Jerzy Widzyk 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil Kavalsky 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  7
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
          (Expressed in Dollars)  to be Financed
(1)
Works
85%
(a) 
under Part A
   87,500,000
of the Project
(b)
under Part B
    7,000,000
of the Project
(2)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures,
(a)
under Part A
    24,000,000
100% of local
of the Project
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
(b)
under Part B
    43,000,000
and 85% of local
of the Project
expenditures for
other items
(c)
under Part C
       500,000
procured locally
of the Project
(3)
Consultants'
100%
services 
(a)
under Part B
    14,000,000
of the Project
(b)
under Part (C)
     1,000,000
of the Project                   
(4)
Unallocated
    23,000,000
TOTAL
               200,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$40,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after August 19, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $2,500,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less 
than $5,000,000 equivalent each, with the exception of the first contract awarded on 
the basis of national competitive bidding procedures; and (c) services under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent 
each for individual consultants. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) repair infrastructure affected by 
flooding in the year 1997 in the Borrower’s regions bordering the Odra river; and (b) 
introduce measures to reduce the risk of future flooding.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Page  8
Part A:
Municipal and Rural Infrastructure
Carrying out of investments identified under the Eligibility Criteria at the 
municipal and gmina level for restoration of infrastructure damaged by flooding.
Part B:
Flood Management and Risk Reduction
Carrying out of investments identified under the Eligibility Criteria to upgrade 
hydrotechnical infrastructure, modernize flood management systems and improve flood 
forecasting.
Part C:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance and equipment for the establishment and 
operation of the PCU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
                           (Expressed in Dollars)*
May 15, 2003
10,000,000 
November 15, 2003
10,000,000 
May 15, 2004
10,000,000 
November 15, 2004
10,000,000 
May 15, 2005
10,000,000 
November 15, 2005
10,000,000 
May 15, 2006
10,000,000 
November 15, 2006
10,000,000 
May 15, 2007
10,000,000 
November 15, 2007
10,000,000 
May 15, 2008
10,000,000 
November 15, 2008
10,000,000 
May 15, 2009
10,000,000 
November 15, 2009
10,000,000 
May 15, 2010
10,000,000 
November 15, 2010
10,000,000 
May 15, 2011
10,000,000 
November 15, 2011
10,000,000 
May 15, 2012
10,000,000 
November 15, 2012
10,000,000
_______________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Page  9
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Rehabilitation works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $45,300,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $2,500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $21,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $51,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,500,000 or more, each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more and the first contract to be procured on the basis of national 
competitive bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  10
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part B of the Project, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said  paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
Page  11
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements and 
details set forth or referred to in the PIP.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the Steering 
Committee headed by the Minister of Flood Recovery and with representatives of the 
Borrower’s Ministries of Environment, Finance and Agriculture to be responsible for 
facilitating actions required for Project implementation at the policy level.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the PCU with 
resources and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and shall assign to 
it responsibility for overall Project implementation and coordination including: 
(a)
preparation of work programs under the Project;
(b)
verification of satisfaction of the Eligibility Criteria in respect of 
all components of the work programs under the Project;
(c)
coordination of the activities of Beneficiaries under the Project;
(d)
management of Project finance, including maintenance of the Special 
Account and arranging for the audit thereof;
(e)
preparation of bidding and contract documents and management of 
procurement procedures under the Project; 
(f)
supervision of implementation of work programs under the Project; and
(g)
preparation and furnishing to the Bank of quarterly progress reports on 
Project 
implementation prepared in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the 
Bank.
4.
As part of flood management measures under Part B of the Project, the Borrower, 
acting through its Minister of Environment, shall establish by March 31, 1998, under 
operating procedures to be agreed upon with the Bank, two Basin Flood Management 
Coordination and Information Centers, one located in Wroclaw and the other in Krakow.
5.
The Borrower shall, by February 15, 1998, employ in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4, Section II of this Agreement, consultants with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to assist 
in the operation of the PCU under Part C of the Project.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the PIP 
(as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank), the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about August 31, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by November 30, 1999, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6 
Page  12
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) the amount of $30,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of 
$15,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $70,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account, such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
Page  13
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
