RESTRICTED
FLE     c     y                  Report No. P-808
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
THE PROPOSED LOAN
TO
CENTRAL ELETRICA DE FURNAS S.A.
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL
May 6, 1970



Ii' TTWATIJONTAL BiANX FOR RECONSTRUCTION 1-NDUIMT.ELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECONIEMNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON THE PROPOSED LOAN TO CENTRAL
ELETRICA DE FURNAS S. A. W4ITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
GOVERMAENT OF BRAZIL
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $80 million to Central.
Eletrica de Furnas S. A. (Furnas) with the guarantee of the Government of
Brazil.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       The Bank has had a long and close association with the electric
power sector in Brazil dating back to 1949. Since then 21 loans totalling
$541 million have been made. The proposed loan would be the fifth to Furnas.
Furnas received its first Bank loan, $73 million for the construction of the
original Furnas hydroelectric project (211-BR), in 1958, shortly after its
establishment.  The company's second major project, the Estreito hydro-
electric plant, was financed by Bank loans totalling $96 million (403-474 BR)
granted in 1965 and 1966. In 1968, Furnas received a fourth loan of $22.3
million (565 BR) for the construction of the Porto Colombia hydroelectric
project. All of the projects included transmission lines. The first two
plants are now in service, the Estreito plant having begun operation on
schedule last year. Work on the Porto Colombia project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
3.       Electric power projects financed by the Bank in Brazil in recent
years have been selected on the basis of comprehensive studies of market
requirements and investment priorities in the major consuming regions. A
long-term study of the power market in the south-central region served by
Furnas, which accounts for 80% of national power consumption, was completed
in December 1967 and a similar study of the southern region was completed
early this year. The Bank acted as executing agent for these studies, which
were financed by UNDP. The Marimbondo site, downstream on the Rio Grande
from the projects now under construction with Bank financing, was recommended
in the UNDP study of the south-central region as the next project site
suitable for large-scale low-cost power development. Last year, the growth
prospects of the south-central power market were re-studied by Eletrobras,
the holding company which controls the operations of the federally owned
utilities. This study confirmed the need for the prompt construction of the
M4arimbondo project to meet the expected growth of demand after 1975.
4.       The Brazilian electric power sector has made impressive progress
in recent years in carrying out the investments necessary to meet the rapid
growth of the power market. Increasing emphasis has been placed on overall
sector planning and the government has formulated an investment and financin;
program for the years 1969-73. The program is based on the projected growth
in demand of more than 12% per year in the markets served by the major power
utilities. To meet this, installed capacity would have to be increased over



the period by 7300 Mw.  The total cost of the investments to meet the growth
of demand would be about $3.6 billion. About 75% of this would be financed
from domestic resources, consisting mainly of funds generated within the
sector from the power ccnpanies' earnings and user taxes. The bulk of the
external capital inflow required by the sector during the 1969-73 period
is available from loans already made by the Bank, the Inter-American Develcp-
ment Bank and other lenders.  However, while the projects presently underm2y
will enable the power sector to meet the projected growth of demand through.
the mid-70's, a number of major new projects will have to be initiated during
the years immediately ahead in order to meet Brazil's power requirements
during the latter part of the decade. The major new generation and trans-
mission projects to be initiated during 1970-73 under the investment prograq
would require fresh external loan commitments totalling some $750 million.
5.       The Brazilian authorities propose to seek long term external finan-
cing only for the cost of equipment and material for major generation and
transmission projects. In the last few years the Brazilian electrical goods
industry has developed rapidly. With the 15% margin of preference allowed
on Bank projects, it is now in a position to supply about 40-50% of the value
of equipment required for generation and transmission projects. Increasingly,
the foreign exchange expenditures of the Brazilian power sector are shiftinc
from the import of finished goods to the import of raw materials and partly
manufactured components. During discussions on the financing program for
the power sector, the Bank and the Brazilian government felt that for large
projects, such as Marimbondo, joint financing by the Bank and bilateral
lenders was a suitable way of combining bilateral financing, normally
available only for foreign procurement, and Bank financing which, consider-
ing the special Brazilian circumstances, has been available for domestic
procurement as well. In addition, joint financing of electric power projects
will release additional Bank funds for use in sectors such as Transport and
Agriculture where projects are often not suitable for bilateral financing.
The project was discussed at a meeting in Paris on March 11 and 12 of repre-
sentatives of the Bank, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan,
Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States and agreement
was reached on the attached memorandum on the joint financing of the Marim-
bondo project.
6.       The project was appraised by a mission which visited Brazil in
October/November 1969 and negotiations for the proposed loan were held on
April 14, 1970. Furnas was represented by Mr. John Cotrim, President,
Mr. Sergio Menezes, Financial Director and Mr. Sergio Almeida, Chief Legal
Counsel. The government was represented by Mr. Jaime Alipio de Barros,
General Counsel of the Ministry of Finance.
7.       The proposed loan would be the 29th Bank loan to Brazil, including
the loan for the Second Highway Construction Project approved by the Executive
Directors on March 31 and scheduled for signing later this month. It would
increase the total of Bank loans to Brazil to $838 million (net of cancel-
lations, but including the $100 million highway loan). The following is
a summary statement of Bank loans to Brazil as of March 31, 1970:



-3-
Loan                                             Amount less
No.  Year      Borrower             Purpose    Cancellations    Undisbursed
(US$ million
Loans fully disbursed                  267.0
403   1965  Central Eletrica de
Furnas - Estreito I     Power          57.0            13.9
404   1965  Centrais Eletricas de
Sao Paulo - Xavantes   Power           22.5            10.4
442   1966  Centrais Eletricas de
Minas Gerais            Power          49.0            36.4
474   1966  Central Eletrica de
Furnas - Estreito II    Power          39.0            39.0
475   1966  Cia.Brasileira de
Energia Eletrica        Power           6.2             5.3
476   1966  Cia. Forca e Luz do
Parana                  Power           8.1             7.5
477   1966  Cia. Paulista de Forca
e Luz                  Power           41.0            35.0
478   1966  Cia. Forca e Luz de
Minas Gerais            Power           6.3             5.0
516   1967  Brazil                   Livestock      40.0             39.4
526   1968  Cia. Minera de Alumino- Aluminum
Alcominas               manufacture    22.0             6.2
565   1968  Central Eletrica de
Furnas                  Power          22.3            21.9
566   1968  Central Eletrica de
Minas Gerais            Power          26.6            26.2
567   1968  Brazil                   Roads          26.0             24.1
656*  1970  Banco do Nordeste do
Brasil                  Industry       25.0            25.0
Total (less cancellations)             658.o
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others:                   153.0
Total now outstanding                  505.0
Amount sold                  10.3
of which has been repaid    7.1        3.2
Total now held by Bank                 501.8
Total undisbursed                                      295.3
* Not yet effective.



8.       The table shows that substantial amounts are as yet undisbursed,
even on the power loans made in 1965. This is due to a number of factors.
Some of these reflect certain characteristics of our power loans to Brazil,
and tneir effects on disbursements must be regarded as normal. A second
group of factors consists of delays in the physical execution of several
projects during the early stages of construction. As regards the first
group, Bank loans for electric power projects have been made for the purch-e!
of equipment and materials. In most cases delivery and installation is
scheduled only when the civil works are substantially completed. Moreover,
a common feature of contracts between the Brazilian power companies and
suppliers of equipment and material is that progress payments are not
provided for. The combined result of these two factors is a bunching of
disbursements of Bank funds near the closing dates.   Finally, there were
substantial savings in some of the loans because prices realized in interna-
tional ccmpetitive bidding were considerably lower than initially expected.
The Executive Directors have already approved the utilization of some of
the savings in respect of loans 403/474 BR and 404 BR for additional works
related to the projects. Additional savings are expected on these and
other loans made in 1965 and 1966.
9.       The physical execution of the projects was initially delayed in the
cases of power loans 404 BR, 442 BR and 475-478 BR. You were advised of
the reason for the delay in the Xavantes project (404 BR) last December when
you approved my proposal of a 2-year extension of the closing date and amena-
ment of the project to include an additional transmission line to be financed
out of savings realized in procurement. Unexpected foundation difficulties
with the Jaguara project (Loan 442 BR) delayed construction for about a year;
the project is now moving on schedule and ccnpletion is expected by mid-1972.
Implementation of the four power distribution loans (475-478 BR) was initial.Iv
slowed by organizational and administrative difficulties encountered by the
borrowers. Project management has now improved and rapid progress has been
made in committing loan funds which should soon be reflected in the accelera-
ted pace of disbursements. Progress on all other power loans has been on
schedule.
10.      The table also reflects delays in disbursements on the 1968 loan
for highway construction (567 BR) and the 1967 loan for livestock (516 BR).
As regards the former, difficulties were encountered in awarding contracts,
but disbursements began in February of this year and are expected to continue
regularly from now on. As regards the latter, action has recently been taken
to remedy certain deficiencies that had arisen in project management, but
utilization of the loan by farmers is still being delayed by difficulties
regarding the terms of sub-loans. This matter is under active discussion
with the Brazilian authorities.
11.      IFC has made investments in 11 companies for a total of $49.5 million
(net of cancellations). The following is a summary of the IFC investments
in Brazil as of March 31, 1970:



-5-
Amount       Undisbursed
($ million)
Investments fully disbursed                  32.8
Investments not fully disbursed               8.4            6.9
Investments not yet effective                 8.4            8.4
Total (net of cancellations)                 49.6
of which has been repaid to the Corpora-
tion                                        4.2
45.4
Amount sold                                  11.0
Total now held by Corporation                34.4
Undisbursed                                                 15.3
12.      Projects suitable for future Bank lending in the fields of electric
power, transport, agriculture, education, industry, iron ore export and water
supply are presently being prepared in cooperation with the Government and
potential private borrowers.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
13.      Borrower:                Central Eletrica de Furnas S.A.
Guarantor:               Brazil
Amount:                  Equivalent in various currencies of US $80
millinn.
Purpose:                 To help finance the Marimbondo hydroelectruc
plant and associated transmission facilities;
additional generating units for the Furnas
plant; and technical, training and manage-
ment improvement services and related equiy-
ment.
Amortization:            In 30 years, including 7½ years of grace,
through semi-annual installments beginning
September 1, 1977 and ending March 1, 2000
Interest Rate:           7 percent.
Commitment Charge:       3/4 of one percent.



- 6 -
PART III - THE PROJECT
14.       An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the Marimbondo Hydro-
electric Plant and Transmission Lines and Other Generating Equipment" (PU-41)
is attached.
15.       The Marimbondo hydroelectric plant, with an installed capacity of
1,h00 Mw, is the largest power project in the Government's investment programri.
The project to be financed by -the proposed loan consists of the Marimbondo
hydroelectric plant and approximately 1,400 km of 500 kv and other transmission
lines connecting Marimbondo to Rio de Janeiro, plus the installation of two
additional 150 Mw turbo-generator units (Nos. 7 & 8) at the existing Furnas
hydroelectric plant. The total cost of the project, estimated on the basis
of Furnas' recent construction and procurement experience, is $287 million of
which $161 million would be for the Marimbondo plant, $111 million for the
transmission system, $9 million for Furnas units 7 & 8, and $6 million for
related engineering and consulting services. The cost per kw of the Marimbcndo
plant and transmission system is under $200, which can be considered very low-
cost hydroelectric power, especially when taking into account the fact that
part of the transmission system will serve other plants as well.
16.       The Marimbondo project will be constructed and operated by Furnas,
which is the largest of the federal power companies. Furnas sells power in
bulk under long term contracts to the private and state companies which
distribute electricity to final consumers in Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, and
other major consuming centers in the south-central region. Furnas is now
operating generating plants with a combined installed capacity of about
2,000 Mw. With the completion of the generating plants now under construction,
and with Marimbondo in operation, the company will have a total capacity of
about 5,000 Mw in 1977. In 1969 Furnas' energy sales rose to the 10 billion
kwh level, with gross operating revenue increasing correspondingly to the
equivalent of about $93 million. Brazilian government tariff regulations and
rate making procedures have worked well in recent years to assure power
companies a reasonable rate of return. Furnas is technically and financially
well managed and has demonstrated its ability to carry out Bank-financed
projects efficiently.
17.       As in the case of all recent Bank-financed electric power projects
in Brazil, external finance is being sought only for materials and equipment
to be procured in international competitive bidding, estimated to cost approxi-
mately $100 million (including contingencies), and for the foreign exchange
cost of engineering and consulting services. External financing is not pro-
posed for civil works or for interest during construction. At the Paris
meeting on joint financing it was agreed that the Bank and the participating
countries would each finance 50 percent of the eligible orders placed in
these countries, while the Bank would finance 100 percent of the orders placed
in Brazil (or other countries not providing finance) and any "small" orders
not eligible for joint financing. Brazilian manufacturers of electrical and
mechanical equipment would participate in international competitive bidding
with a 15 percent margin of preference. A review of Furnas' recent procure-
ment experience on Bank-financed projects indicates that Brazilian manufactur;rs



- 8 -
make its best efforts to obtain and utilize the joint loans for the Project.
Section 2.08 provides for the adjustment of the amortization schedule so that
the combined repayments of principal on the proposed Bank loan and the joint
loans would, insofar as practicable, not exceed the repayments that would have
been necessary had the full external financing been provided by the Bank, but
without reducing any principal installment due the Bank below $100,000 or
extending the final amortization date of the Bank loan. Section 6.02 (a)
provides for the right of the Bank to premature the proposed Bank loan if any
of the joint loans has been prematured.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
22.      The most recent economic report on Brazil (WH-195a) was issued in
December 1969 and concluded that Brazil's economic performance in recent
years was satisfactory and that Brazil was creditworthy for substantial amounts
of external borrowing. These findings have been confirmed by a new economic
mission which visited Brazil in April of this year and which is now preparing
its report.
23.      Total output grew by 8% in 1968 and 9% in 1969, spearheaded by a
vigorous expansion of industrial production. Export earnings rose by 14%
in 1968 and by as much as 23% in 1969. Increased earnings from coffee and
the other main traditional exports (sugar, cocoa and cotton) accounted for
less than one half of the 1969 gain; the balance came from a wide range of
non-traditional industrial and agricultural products as well as from mining.
Treasury budget receipts rose in real terms by 12% in 1969 while the increase
in expenditures was held to less than 6 percent. The extra-budgetary accounts
of the government showed a substantial surplus in 1969, with the result that
the public sector indebtedness to the banking system declined. Prices have
continued to increase, under the impact of expansion of credit to the private
sector and accumulation of exchange reserves; the general price index rose
by 20% in 1969 compared to 25% in 1968. The impact on the balance of payments
of the price increase was neutralized by the flexible exchange rate policy
which was introduced in August 1968. The current account deficit fell from
$455 million in 1968 to $151 million in 1969.
24.      The outlook for further expansion of output and exports is favorable.
The rate of investment has increased; the change in the world coffee market
will enable Brazil to dispose of the earlier accumulated surpluses at favor-
able prices; and the responsiveness of non-traditional exports to the new
exchange rate policy and other export incentives promises a substantial
diversification of the structure of production and exports at a high rate
of growth.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
25.      I an satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 9 -
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
26.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert McNamara
President
Attachment



RESTRICTED
MEMORANDUM ON JOINT FINANCING OF THE MARIMBONDO
HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT IN BRAZIL
I. Project to be covered
A.     This memorandum applies to the external financing of the follow-
ing project:
Estimated external
financing
(US$ Million equivalent)
Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project                 106
B.     The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
Bank) is ready to consider the provision of up to $80 million of this
financing if agreement can be reached with potential joint lenders on
a mutually-acceptable basis for joint financing.
II. General Formula for Joint Financing
A.     The formula for provision of external financing of the imported
goods required for the project and eligible for joint financing would
be 50 percent by the Bank and 50 percent by the supplying country. This
financing formula would only apply to individual orders for imported
goods of at least $200,000, aggregating at least $1 million in any one
supplying country.
B.     All countries with prospects of obtaining significant orders
under the above formula would indicate their willingness to join in
its financing as a precondition for proceeding with joint financing
of the project.
C.     The term to maturity of joint loans would be no less than 10 years
from delivery of the goods. For this purpose, the date of delivery in
respect of each individual contract will be deemed to be the expected
date of completed installation at site, as determined by the Bank, but
in any case this date will not be later than 18 months from the contrac-
tual date of the shipment of the goods. An appropriate grace period wil).
be added taking into account the foregoing in cases where maturity is
calculated from date of signature.   The interest rate and other charges
would be no higher than the most favorable rate and charges which the
country otherwise provides with respect to long-term commercial export
credit. The goods to be imported for the project would be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
practices usually followed for Bank projects, without reference to credit
terms including interest rates and amortization schedules.



- 2
III.  The Role of the Bank
A.    The Bank will appraise the project and,provided it conforms to
the Bank's standards, will recommlend to its Executive Directors a
loan to cover its share of the financing of imported goods under the
formula outlined in II. A.
B.    In order to facilitate the arrangements to be made by the joint
lenders, the Bank will advise thern on the progress of its own project
appraisal, and of the status of procurement and award of contracts.
C.    Every effort will be made to make the Bank loan effective
simultaneously with the joint loans. However, the Bank will consider
making its loan effective in advance of the effectiveness of joint
loans should this be justified by the circumstances of the case.
D.    In order to ensure that the total financial plan which emerges
is appropriate to the project and the financial position of the
Borrower, the Bank is prepared, within limits, to adjust the amorti-
zation schedule of its loan to the schedules of joint loans, so that
the total annual amortization payments required of the Borrower would
be reasonably approximate to those which would be required if the entire
amounts had been provided by the Bank.
E.    The Bank will also be prepared to include in its Loan Agreement
a provision stipulating that prematuring of a joint loan because of a
default would give the Bank the right to declare a default under the
Bank loan.
F.    The Bank will notify joint lenders in cases of ary Brazilian
request for substantial additions to or deletion from the list of
equipment and materials for the program and give them an opportunity
to comment before agreeing to them.
IV.   The role of other Joint Lenders
A.    Upon receipt of notification from the Bank, joint lenders will
promptly enter into loan negotiations with the Borrower in Brazil.
B.    Every effort will be made to declare joint loans effective
simultaneously with the Bank's loan, but the Bank, as indicated in
III. C. above, may decide to make the Bank loan effective in advance
of the effectiveness of joint loans.
C.    If a joint lender finds it necessary to place a ceiling on the
amount of financing to be made available, it will be prepared seriously



- 3 -
to consider increasing this amnount in case the flow of orders calls for
additional financing by it under the joint financing formula. The Bank will
consider the effect of such a ceiling, and aft'.r consultation with irterested
joint lenders, will advise whether such ceiling wo'4ld, in the Bank's judgmen+t,
be adequate in relation to the orders likely to be obtained.
May 6, 1970



