CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 677 BR
Guarantee Agreement
(Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MAY 25, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 677 BR
Guarantee Agreement
(Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MAY 25, 1970


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 25, 1970, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC
OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Central Elftrica de Furnas, S.A. (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank
has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to
eighty million dollars ($80,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor represents and warrants that the giving of such
guarantee is authorized by Law No. 1518 of December 24, 1951; Articles 22 and
23 of Law No. 1628 of June 20, 1952; Decree No. 57,482 of December 24, 1965
pursuant to  Law   No. 4131 of September 3, 1962; Law      No. 4457 of
November 6, 1964; Law No. 5000 of May 24, 1966; and Decree Law No. 1095
of March 20, 1970;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The parties to this Guarantee Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Guarantee Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿4                                              4
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of the other
covenants on its part in this Guarantee Agreement contained, the Guarantor hereby
unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due
and punctual payment of the principal of, and the interest and other charges on,
the Loan, the principal of and interest on the Bonds, the premium, if any, on
the prepayment of the Loan or the redemption of the Bonds, and the punctual
performance of all the covenants and agreements of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement and in the Bonds.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for carrying out the Project,
to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower
or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures, either by way of loans or equity investment by Eletrobras, or
otherwise.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. It is the mutual intention of the Guarantor and the Bank that
no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan in the allocation
or realization of foreign exchange. To that end, the Guarantor undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Guarantor or of any of its political subdivisions or of any agency of any
such political subdivision as security for any external debt, such lien will ipso facto
equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; (ii) any lien on commercial goods to secure a debt maturing not more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred and to be paid
out of the proceeds of sale of such commercial goods; or (iii) any lien arising
in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
The term "assets of the Guarantor" as used in this Section includes assets
of the Guarantor or of any agency of the Guarantor, including Banco Central do
Brasil and any other institution performing the functions of a central bank for
the Guarantor.


﻿5
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request with
regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part of the Guarantor, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Guarantor and the international balance of
payments position of the Guarantor. On the part of the Bank, such information
shall include such information as shall be available to the Bank regarding the
performance of the obligations of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement.
(b)   The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time exchange views
through their representatives with regard to matters relating to the purposes of
the Loan and the maintenance of the service thereof and shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of the service
thereof.
(c)   The Guarantor shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Bank to visit any part of the territories of the Guarantor
for purposes related to the Loan.
Section 3.03. The principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan
and the Bonds shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes,
and free from all restrictions, imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or laws
in effect in its territories; provided, however, that the provisions of this Section
shall not apply to taxation of payments under any Bond to a holder thereof other
than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially owned by an individual or corporate
resident of the Guarantor.
Section 3.04. This Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the Bonds shall be
free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or
laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery
or registration thereof.
Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor will exercise every power, right and recourse
available to it to the end that it will not take or permit any of its political
subdivisions or any of its agencies (including Eletrobra's in its capacity as holder
of the majority of the Borrower's shares, and Banco Central do Brasil and any
other institution performing the functions of a central bank for the Guarantor
in respect of the allocation or realization of foreign exchange) or any agency of
any political subdivision to take any action which would prevent or interfere with
the performance by the Borrower of any of the covenants, agreements and
obligations of the Borrower in the Loan Agreement contained, and will take or


﻿6
cause to be taken all reasonable action (including action by Eletrobrfs in its capacity
as holder of the majority of the Borrower's shares and by Banco Central do Brasil
and any other institution performing the functions of a central bank for the
Guarantor in respect of the allocation or realization of foreign exchange) which
shall be necessary in order to enable the Borrower to perform such covenants,
agreements and obligations.
(b)   The Guarantor shall cause the agency or agencies of the Guarantor
responsible for the setting and adjustment of the Borrower's rates for the sale
of electricity to act in respect of any application of the Borrower for the setting
and adjustment of such rates within a period of not more than 30 days after
receipt of such application.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor undertakes that it will: (a) take all such action
as shall be practicable in the circumstances to encourage effective coordination
of the operation of the electricity generating, transmission and distribution facilities
of the integrated system into which the power output of the Project will flow;
and (b) take or cause to be taken all such timely and effective action as shall
be necessary or advisable in respect of the expansion of the transmission and
distribution facilities in the areas served by such system in order to ensure that
the electricity generated and to be generated by the system will efficiently reach
the retailers and consumers in such areas.
Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall take all such measures as shall be necessary
in order to facilitate the importation by the Borrower of goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan purchased outside Brazil in accordance with the
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. The Guarantor shall endorse, in accordance with the provisions
of the General Conditions, its guarantee on the Bonds to be executed and delivered
by the Borrower. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Guarantor and such other person
or persons as he shall appoint in writing are designated as the authorized
representatives of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Guarantor is designated for
the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿7
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minist6rio da Fazenda
Av. Presidente Antonio Carlos 375
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Alternative address for cables:
Minifaz
Rio de Janeiro
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Guarantee Agreement


﻿8
to be signed in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s / Antonio Delfim Neto
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Robert S. McNamara
President


