Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:      20677
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan TR-31920, 3192S, 3192A)
June 5, 2000
Human Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENC'Y EQUIVALENTS
(as of 30 June 1999)
Currency Unit       Turkish Lira (TL)
US$1         TL 418,189.00
AVi:RAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1990     1991   1992     1993     1994      1995     1996       1997      1998
2,606.36 4,168.11 6,864.36 10,965.42 29,669.76 45,678.23 80,797.53 151,238.90 259,626.66
1999
416,685.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APK      Council for Research, Planning and Coordination
BEP      Basic Education Project
BEPP      Basic Education Pilot Project
BOE      Board of Education
CES  -  Computer Experimental Schools
CLS  - Curriculum Laboratory Schools
ERC      Education Resource Center
ERDC  - Education Research and Development Center
ERDD  - Education Research and Development Department
FRTVC       Film, Radio and Television Center
ICR  - Implementation Completion Report
MADU  - Management Assessment and Development Unit
METARGEM         Vocatonal/Technical Education Research and
Development Center
MIS      Management Information System
MOF  - Ministry of Finance
MONE  - Minist:ry of National Education
NEDP  - National Education Development Project
NFVT      Non-Formal Vocational Training
PCU  - Project Coordination Unit
SAAT      Student Achievement Assessment Test
YOK  - Council for Higher Education
TURKEY'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country
Director: Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6
Team Leader: Michael Mertaugh, ECSHD
Sector Leader: Annette Dixon, ECSHD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan TR-31920, 3192S, 3192A)
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Background and Project Objectives
Evaluation of Project Objectives
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
D. BANK PERFORMANCE
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
H. FUTURE OPERATION
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9: Financial and Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Loan Covenants
Table 11: Status of Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (actual)
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices:
A. Implementation Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. MONE's Contribution to ICR
C. YOK's Contribution to ICR
D. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan TR-31920, 3192S, 3192A)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Education
Development Project (NEDP) in Turkey for which Loan TR-31920, TR-3192S and
TR-3192A in the amount of US$90.2 million equivalent was approved on May 18,
1990, and made effective on July 31, 1990.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1999, instead of the original closing date of June 30,
1997, after three extensions (June 30, 1998, December 31, 1998 and June 30, 1999)
totalling two years. As of 1 November 1999 (the date of last transaction), the amount
of US$ 700,683.65 equivalent from the Loan 3192S-TU was canceled and also as of
20 April 2000 (the date of last transaction), the amount of US$ 20,429,958.35
equivalent from the Loan 3192A-TU was canceled, totalling the canceled amount to
US$ 21,130,642.-. In summary, US$ 15.0 million, US$ 36.9 million and US$ 17.2
million have been disbursed from the 31920-TU, 3192A-TU and 3192S-TU,
respectively.
The ICR was prepared by Ferda Sahmali, Task Team Leader, ECCTR and Robert
Schware, Senior Information Technology Specialist, EMTII. Helpful comments and
assistance were received from Michael Mertaugh, Education Program Team Leader,
ECSHD. The ICR was reviewed by Marlaine E. Lockheed (MNSHD) and Peter
Russell Moock (EASHD).
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion
missions in June and October 1999. It is based on material in the project files as well
as information received during the course of supervision. The two implementing
agencies (Ministry of National Education and Council for Higher Education)
contributed to the preparation of this document by providing written input, which is
attached in the appendix. Comments were also received from the implementing
agencies.






TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan TR-31920, 3192S, 3192S)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    There has been a long history of Bank lending to Turkey's education sector
focused primarily on improving vocational/technical education and manpower
training with a view to relieving scarcities of technically qualified and skilled labor.
The National Education Development Project (NEDP) was the first project which was
designed to focus on quality enhancement and management improvement of the
Government's broader sectoral development program.
Project Objectives
2.    The Project's three broad objectives were to: (i) improve the quality of primary
and secondary education for increasing student achievement to a level approaching
the average OECD countries; (ii) improve the quality and relevance of teacher
education to a level consistent with norms for such training in OECD countries; and
(iii) improve management and administrative skills and practices in the Ministry of
National Education (MONE) for more efficient and effective use of resources.
Achievement of Project Objectives
3.    The second objective of the Project was largely attained. Progress under the
first and third objectives was less clear cut. Although a number of concrete actions
were carried out under the project to improve inputs to learning and education
management, the educational benefits in many cases will take time to spread these
inputs throughout the system. In several key areas, the project's contribution to
improved educational quality was developmental. Achievement of the full quality
gains throughout the system requires replication of the activities developed under the
Project. This is necessarily a long-term undertaking which is in progress in most of
the key project areas: pre-service and in-service teacher training, student assessment,
curriculum laboratory schools, computer laboratory schools, basiceducation pilot
project and mother and child development program. In a few cases, quality gains
were frustrated by inertia within the Ministry, rivalry among units of the Ministry, and
the difficulty of attracting staff and managers with the requisite qualifications (notably
curriculum development and management and development). For example, the
Project supported the establishment of a new curriculum development unit which was
intended to consolidate the curriculum development functions of several bodies within
the MONE and the Board of Education (BOE). The new unit was created and its staff
were trained, but the consolidation of curriculum development functions of other units
ii



did not occur. As a result, some aspects of curriculum development have benefitted
from the project, while others have not.
4.    There were also serious problems of ownership at the start of implementation,
both on the part of senior Ministry management and the line units which were
expected to implement the various components of the Project. This problem resulted
partly from the departure at Project initiation of the Undersecretary under whom the
Project was designed, and partly from the fact that many of the key line units were not
sufficiently involved in project preparation. Project implementation took two years to
get under way, and moved very slowly for the next three years.  Project
implementation improved thereafter, due largely to the efforts of a new
Undersecretary who made a personal commitment to retrofit ownership among some
of the key line units involved in the Project.
5.    The Project resulted in setting up two new units, namely, the Educational
Research and Development Department (ERDD) and Management Assessment and
Development Unit (MADU) at the MONE. ERDD is responsible for curriculum
development and succeeded in developing 21 new curricula.  ERDD is also
responsible for establishing 208 Curriculum Laboratory Schools (CLS) in 23
provinces, responsible for establishing for the first time testing (student achievement
assessment) and evaluation system, and for conducting six educational studies.
MADU is responsible for establishment and implementation of management
assessment procedures and development of functional job descriptions. Management
assessment studies conducted by MADU resulted in the publication of two regulations
on the "Appointment, Evaluation, Promotion, and Transfer of Ministry of National
Education Administrator"and on the "Norm Cadres of the Ministry of National
Education Schools' Administrators and Teachers". MADU also played a leading role
in training and implementing "Total Quality Management and Process
Reengineering" at the MONE.
6.    The Project funded the development of 53 Computer Experimental Schools
(CES) as an experimental platform to explore how far computer education can
facilitate instruction and provide tools to improve teaching and learning. The success
of the CES led to the expansion of number of computer experimental schools from 53
to 235 schools, financed with project savings. The schools were equipped with a
computer laboratory and teacher rooms were also equipped with a PC each, and 2,395
teachers were trained on computer literacy.
7.    The Project funded a modern Computerized Textbook Distribution System in
21 regional offices of the MONE. The offices were fully equipped with computers
and inventory control software. The users of the system provided specialized training
to operate the system. However, only in one of the 21 offices, the Computerized
Textbook Distribution System is fully operational. The System in the remaining 20
offices is not operational due to ineffective management and lack of qualified
personnel.
8.    The Project assisted in improving the quality of pre-service teacher education
by providing laboratory equipment to 42 faculties of education managed by the
Council for Higher Education (YOK). Curriculum and material development were
completed and 23 textbooks were published and distributed to the Faculties of
iii



Education. Masters and doctoral fellows were sent abroad and 21 masters fellows and
52 PhD fellows obtained their degrees, in addition to 18 fellows who were sent for
post-doctoral research in their field.
9.    The Project supported expansion and upgrading of the in-service teacher
training, mainly on computer literacy and specialized subject areas.  In-service
training was decentralized. MONE provided in-service training for 577,756 trainees
via 12,529 courses. This number far exceeded the figure foreseen in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR).
10.   Six research studies on educational subjects funded by the Project were
completed and published. A management information system was designed and
implemented for the first time at MONE in order to decentralize operations to local
offices and to provide a network of information flows between schools and local
offices and between local offices and MONE's central organization.
11.   The NEDP was restructured on 18 January 1996 to include three additional
components financed by Loan savings: (a) a Basic Education Pilot Project; (b)
Secondary Education Studies; and (c) a Mother and Child Development Program.
Under the Basic Education Pilot Project, various educational materials, teachers'
guides and student activity books were distributed to 276 village schools; In-service
training for inspectors and teachers was provided; a school funds program was
initiated in 30 village schools; upgrading, furnishing and extensions of 14 rural
schools were completed; pre and post evaluation studies were conducted to measure
the achievements of the rural education activities. Secondary Education Studies
provided assistance to the MONE to help develop a strategy to reform secondary
vocational/technical education to make it more affordable and more responsive to the
market needs. The Mother and Child Development Program provided training to
35,000 mothers and pre-school children in 59 provinces of Turkey. Twenty five short
films on mother and child education were broadcasted on national and local TV
channels.
Implementation Record. Bank Performance and Borrower Performance
12.   The NEDP was implemented by MONE and YOK. The two implementating
agencies maintained two separate Project Coordination Units (PCUs). Both PCUs
were slow in launching the Project implementation. This was due to the delay in
signing Technical assistance (TA) contracts by both implementing agencies. The
MONE signed the TA contract two years after the effective date of the Loan; it took
YOK four years to sign the TA contract. As there was one project special account,
the two PCUs had difficulty in managing the payments from the special account and
on many occasions there would not be sufficient funds to make a payment due to
delay in replenishment requests. Procurement of equipment and materials under
International Competitive Bidding took more time than was envisaged; this caused
considerable delays in the implementation.
13.   During implementation, the Project's two agencies found the Bank
performance to be satisfactory, but changes in task managership delayed timely action
to deal with administrative and technical problems in implementation of the Project.
iv



14.   Borrower performance in implementation was adversly affected by high
turnover of staff at senior and middle management levels, and inadequate availability
of counterpart funding and delay in releasing the funds. This created an uncertainity
concerning project planning and implementation. Procurement delays and
cancellations adversly affected the completion of the Project.
Project Sustainability
15.   Overall prospects of Project sustainability are assessed as uneven due to
individual characteristics of each component of the Project. Sustainability of most
MONE components depends upon sufficient allocation of funds and assignment as
well as retention of qualified staff, whereas YOK components are more likely to be
sustainable due to commitment of the faculties of education. Restructuring of the
faculties of education also increased the sustainability of the YOK components.
16.   Sustainability of Project interventions in the Ministry of Education suffers
from a problem which is present, to some extent, in all ministries: the difficulty of
attracting qualified staff with civil-service salaries. This was a particular problem in
areas - such as film, radio, and television production - where there are better
professional opportunities outside the Ministry of National Education. While this
problem could be addressed through more liberal and more imaginative use of
consultants, the Ministry is reluctant to do so - largely because of the resentment
which results from the high salaries paid to consultants in some specializations. The
large institutional consultant contracts for educational support to the Ministry of
National Education may also not have left behind the permanent benefits which were
foreseen because of ownership problems. Throughout implementation of the Project,
the Ministry felt that the consultants were forced upon it. The Ministry did not make
full use of the consultants, and in many cases did not provide counterpart staff who
could internalize and sustain the potential benefits of the consultants.
Future Operations
17.   The MONE intends to sustain the achievements of the NEDP through the
Basic Education Program. The Program is supporting in-service training for teachers,
inspectors and school principles, is providing textbooks and educational materials, is
implementing an IT program that will phase in different instructional objectives
starting with computer literacy and moving towards more skill-based and subject
matter related training, is supporting renovation and extension of school buildings etc.
The MONE also intends to initiate secondary general and vocational education project
as a complementary project to the Basic Education Program.
Lessons Learned
18.   The main lesson learned through implementation of the Project is that project
design needs to be based on a realistic assessment of constraints, and a recognition of
which constraints can be mitigated by project design and which cannot be. The
design of the project assumed that the improved inputs would bring about the
expected improvements in educational outcomes, and assumed that the Ministry
would continue to be committed to the Project even after the departure of the
Undersecretary who conceived the Project. The Project had been designed principally
v



by this Undersecretary and a group of like-minded collaborators - including the Bank
appraisal team and a number of hand-picked consultants. This group was excited by
the Project design and committed to making it work. But there was limited
involvement in Project design among the line units which were expected to implement
the Project, and, consequently, little of this commitment or excitement. There was
also no prior agreement on the part of those units which were expected to relinquish
some of their responsibilities under the Project, and in the event failed to do so.
19.  In retrospect, it would have been better to recognize the structural constraints
at the start, and to design interventions into the Project to work around them, rather
than to assume them away. This would have required the full involvement of the line
units from the start of project design. Doing so would require more time for project
preparation and would perhaps require more modest project objectives and a
narrowing of project scope, but would produce better implementation results.
vi






TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan TR - 31920, 3192S, 3192A)
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
Project Identity
Project Name      National Education Development Project
Loan No.          31920, 3192A, 3192S
Country           Turkey
Sector            Human Development
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Background and Project Objectives
1.    Prior to the implementation of the National Education Development Project
(NEDP), the Bank's support to Turkey's education sector focused primarily on
expansion and improvement of vocational/technical education and manpower
training. This reflected the high priority which the Government attached to the
provision of trained manpower to the productive sector, and its previous reluctance to
borrow for general education. In line with the Government's priorities, the Bank has
provided five educational loans to Turkey, all of which were designed to improve the
Country's vocational education and manpower training capabilities. The first loan
(Ln. 748-TU) signed in 1971, and completed in 1981, supported the development of
secondary vocational education and trade schools and vocational teacher education
colleges. The subsequent loans (Ln. 2536-TU and Ln. 2776-TU) signed in 1985 and
1987, respectively, continued to support the upgrading and expansion of secondary
vocational schools and trade programs. The other two loans (Ln. 2399-TU and Ln.
2922-TU), signed in 1984 and 1988, respectively, supported the development of post-
secondary technician training centers, and Faculties of Technical/Vocational
Education under Council for Higher Education (YOK), and special programs for
tourism training under the Ministry of Tourism.
2.    Following the Bank's 1986 Education Sector Survey Report, which made a
wide range of recommendations for sector reform and improvement, the
Government's own evaluation of the system, as stated in the SAR, confirmed the
Report's major conclusions and presented a plan for reform, based on its
recommendations. Subsequent to Bank identification missions in February and May
1988 and preparation assistance missions in September 1988 and February 1989, the
NEDP was prepared by the Government. Pre-appraisal discussions were held in June
1988 and the Project was appraised in October/November 1989.
3.    The NEDP was designed to focus on quality enhancement and management
improvement of the Government's broader sectoral development program. The
Project addressed, through the objectives listed below, three of the major sectoral
issues, i.e. student achievement, educational efficiency  and  organizational



management. The Project's three broad objectives were to: (i) improve the quality of
primary and secondary education for increasing student achievement to a level
approaching the average in OECD countries; (ii) improve the quality and relevance of
teacher education to a level consistent with norms for such training in OECD
countries; and (iii) improve management and administrative skills and practices in the
Ministry of National Education (MONE) for more efficient and effective use of
resources.
4.    The Project was designed to be jointly implemented by the MONE and YOK
over a seven year period. The Project focused on high priority medium-term sectoral
development actions, along with a number of longer-term measures designed to
strengthen various aspects of Turkey's education infrastructure.
The detailed components of the Project were as follows:
Improving Quality of Primary and Secondary Education
5.    US$39.0 million was allocated by the World Bank, including physical and
price contingencies (total cost of US$73.9 million), to improve quality of primary and
secondary education for increasing student achievement to a level approaching the
average in OECD countries.
6.    This component had eight sub-components: (a) Curriculum Management and
Policy Development, (b) Curriculum Development, (c) Curriculum Laboratory
Schools, (d) Computer Experimental/Laboratory Schools, (e) Testing and Evaluation,
(f) Education Studies, (g) Quality of Textbook and Materials, and (h) Distribution of
Textbooks and Materials.
Improving Quality and Relevance of Teacher Education
7.    US$32.3 million was allocated by the World Bank, including physical and
price contingencies (total cost of US$82.7 million), to improve the quality and
relevance of teacher education to a level consistent with norms for such training in
OECD countries.
8.    This component had two sub-components: (a) Pre-service Teacher Education,
and (b) In-service Teacher Training.
Improving Management Skills and Practices
9.    US$18.9 million was allocated by the World Bank, including physical and
price contingencies (total cost of US$20.6 million), to improve management and
administrative skills and practices in the MONE for more efficient and effective use
of resources.
10.   This component had four sub-components: (a) Management Assessment and
Development, (b) Research and Planning, (c) Management Information, and (d)
Research in Vocational/Technical Education.
2



11.   Total loan financing provided under the project was US$90.2 million
including physical and price contingencies. Of this amount, US$67.1 million was
allocated to activities to be implemented by the MONE, and US$23.1 million to
activities to be implemented by YOK. The Government's contribution to the NEDP
was planned to be US$87.0 million. The total estimated cost of the NEDP was
US$177.2 million.
12.   The NEDP was restructured on 18 January 1996 to include three additional
components financed by Loan savings totalling US$15.33 million: (a) a Basic
Education Pilot Project (US$13.1 million); (b) Secondary Education Studies (US$0.5
million); and (c) a Mother and Child Development Program (US$1.73 million).
13.   The loan was closed on June 30, 1999 (the original closing date was of June
30, 1997). The Project closing date was extended three times to June 30, 1998,
December 31, 1998 and June 30, 1999, upon the request of the Borrower, in order to
complete project implementation including the three activities added under the
restructuring of the Project. They extended the total implementation period from
seven to nine years.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
14.   The objectives of the NEDP were clearly defined. However, in retrospect, the
expectations of the appraisal team for the first and third objectives were unrealistically
ambitious. The first objective of the NEDP (improving the quality of education)
through reform of curriculum management and policy development was unrealistic.
Many of the necessary measures to attaining such an objective were outside the
responsibility and influence of a Bank-financed investment program. The SAR stated
that "all curriculum development units/groups dispersed throught the MONE would
be consolidated into a unified Education Research and Development Center (ERDC)
... and the Center would have the responsibility for all development activities in the
education sector, ... and Board of Education (BOE) would continue its leadership role
of advising the Minister on approval of curriculum and related development outputs".
Achievement of this objective would have required new legislation, as well as
redefinition of the roles and responsibilities of the BOE and other units of the
Ministry. This did not take place as envisaged in the Project due to internal rivalries
in the Ministry and inertia of the existing structure, which proved highly resistant to
attempts to change roles and responsibilities of individual units. The first objective
aimed to restructure the MONE's core activities like curriculum development,
textbook quality improvement, student achievement assessment, and educational
research and development. Under this objective it was assumed that structural
changes and technical improvements would trigger improvement in quality of
education. However, the Project paid too little attention to how these changes were to
be effected and -in particular- to establishing incentives for cooperation (rather than
overt resistance) among the various units of the Ministry. In retrospect, the lack of
involvement of many of the line units of the Ministry in the design of the Project
created a bias against successful implementation.
15.   The second objective of the NEDP (improving the quality and relevance of
teacher education) was relevant and realistic. Pre-service teacher education was
3



transferred to YOK under the Project. This change was a positive step which aided
the implementation of the second objective of the Project.
16.   The third objective of the NEDP (improving management skills and practices)
was unrealistic.  Measures which were supposed to be taken to improve
administrative efficiency and general management of the education system were
ambitious and not realistic considering the lack of qualified personnel and the lack of
legislative framework. This was not adequately foreseen by the Bank at the time of
appraisal.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
17.   Overall, the project was substantially successful in achieving its objectives. In
meeting its first objective, Improving the Quality of Education, the Project was
partially successful.
Curriculum Management and Policy Development: The Education Organization
Law (Act number 3797 dated 30 April 1992), to restructure the MONE failed to
create and establish an Education Research and Development Center (ERDC)
which would unify the curriculum, textbook and materials development activities
dispersed throughout the Ministry. What the new law did in fact was to add
another unit under the name of Education Research and Development Department
(ERDD) for curriculum development to other educational units which develop
curricula (i.e., General Directorate for Primary Education, General Directorate for
Secondary Education etc.). Moreover, the BOE was left intact and continued
developing and approving the c urricula, textbooks and educational materials. This
was clearly not the intention of the NEDP as stipulated in the SAR. On the
contrary, the Project envisaged the elevation of the BOE's image and stature
within the MONE and the Country by promoting the BOE to a high level
executive body which would be a true policy decision making and approval unit.
The BOE was not intended to be responsible for managing an operation, whose
own work it would have to approve. This is a conflict of interest which need to be
addressed by the MONE. Or the other hand, the ERDD struggled to establish
itself in an environment which was not conducive to its well being. In addition,
initially the head of the ERDD was a political appointee who was not capable of
leading such a new unit. However, towards the end of the Project a new head of
the ERDD was appointed who was dedicated and committed to the success of the
unit. In short, the legal and regulatory basis for the ERDD was not sufficient to
realize the achievements stated in the SAR, and all it was done was the
establishment of an additional unit for the MONE.
* Curriculum Development: The ERDD was slow in developing curriculum for
various administrative and legal reasons.  Later the ERDD  succeeded in
developing 21 curricula since its establishment. The ERDD developed the
curricula by using a new "Curriculum Development Model". Although this Model
was recognized and recommended by the BOE to be used by other curriculum
development units at the Ministry, the BOE managed to approve only 3 curricula
in three years which are being used in schools since last school year. The
remaining 18 curricula were awaiting the BOE's approval during the preparation
4



of this ICR.  In short, establishment of a curriculum  development model,
increased the awareness of the decision makers on various issues that are linked
with professional, comprehensive and systematic curriculum development
process.
* Curriculum Laboratory Schools (CLS): In 23 provinces, 208 CLS including 147
basic education schools, 37 general secondary schools, 16 Anatolian secondary
schools and 8 Anatolian teacher training schools were provided with educational
equipment. The equipment consisted of PCs, lap-tops, printers, data show
machines, fax machines, modems, scanners, TV sets, video recorders and video
cameras, overhead projectors and screens, tape recorders, projectors, cameras, flip
charts and physics, chemistry, biology and life sciences laboratory sets were
funded from the Loan. The majority of these schools have access to the internet
and have developed their own WEB pages. School furnitures (individual student
desks, student lockers, laboratory tables, library shelves, etc.) were procured
through Government contribution. Local funds were used to renovate and
maintain CLS in order to meet established building standards. Music and drawing
rooms, computer and science laboratories, libraries, teacher study rooms, teacher
common rooms and multi-functional halls were established. 6630 CLS principals,
teachers, counselors and inspectors received in-service training to use the
improved facilities of the CLS in more effective teaching. Educational technology
formators were provided training on effective use of the equipment, and appointed
to 23 provinces, where CLS exist. The formators in turn provided training to the
CLS teachers and administrators in use of the equipment.  The quantum
improvement in teaching and lecturing equipment in the CLS was immediatelly
recognized by the intended beneficiaries. There was and remains very strong
demand for these schools on the part of parents, teachers and students. In spite of
this strong demand the administrators resisted the pressure to increase enrollments
beyond the levels foreseen at appraisal (40 students per class). As a result, the
high quality of these schools was preserved and the CLS component fully
achieved its objective of improving teaching and learning conditions and
establishing a model for the rest of the system to follow. Although the evaluation
of the CLS was not completed yet, the MONE issued a new regulation on 20
October 1999, to expand the implementation of CLS throughout the Country,
however, leaving the question of funding the CLS open. In short, CLS activity,
under the NEDP, achieved its objective in establishing those schools, providing
them with the necessary equipment, and providing training to the staff of the
schools.
* Computer Experimental/Laboratory Schools (CES): The CES aimed to develop 53
schools as an experimental platform to explore how far computer education can
facilitate instruction and provide tools to improve both teaching and learning. The
schools were equipped with a computer laboratory, and teacher rooms were also
equipped with a PC each. 2395 teachers were trained through in-service training
programs. The pilot was evaluated by an international team of consultants in
October 1996. The independent review of the CES found that administrators,
teachers, and students were all enthusiastically and creatively using the equipment
and software. In the schools visited by the evaluators it was clear that the students
were utilizing the facilities offered by their laboratories on a daily basis and the
schools and the educational communities they serve welcomed the technology in
5



the 53 CES. This justified a request from the Ministry to expand the educational
opportunities offered by the new tools, and an additional 182 schools were
included in an unplanned expansion of the pilot. In short, the project realized its
quantitative objectives in terms of training outputs and establishing facilities and
equipment. At the same time, unexpected benefits were also realized from the
experiment. In some cases, support from the Parent Teachers Associations (PTA)
had resulted in upgraded equipment, additional hardware, and even hired
technicians. Parents increasingly wanted their children enrolled in a CES/CLS
school, leading to overcrowding of some classrooms, and continue to want to send
their children to these schools. The size of classes, the interests of students and
parents, and the need to provide greater access to the laboratories resulted in
additional weekend classes, mostly in computer literacy. Based on the evaluation
of CES, and its popularity with parents, teachers and students, it appears that CES
was very successful. However, a more definitive account must await the results of
more formal assessment of actual learning outcomes.  Overall, CES was
substantially successful in achieving its objectives.
Testing and Evaluation: Testing and evaluation was applied in MONE schools for
the first time under the Project. This was an important first step in the use of
student assessment as a diagnostic tool for improving the effectiveness of teaching
throughout the Country. ERI)D prepared and regularly conducted on a yearly
basis Student Achievement Assessment Tests (SAAT) in Science, Mathemathics,
Social Sciences and Turkish. The SAAT were carried out on 347,222 CLS
students and 38,275 non-CLS students, totalling 385,497 students. The SAAT
paved the way for ERDD to research, produce, validate and standardize tests for
establishing national norms on student cognitive achievement. A Test Item Data
Bank with 6,396 test items was developed. Out of this number, 3,137 test items
were piloted  and validated.   The ERDD  successfully  administered the
mathematics and science achievement tests under the Third International
Mathematics and Science Study Repeat (TIMS-R) in 204 selected schools to 8000
13 year-old students. Despite these achievements, very significantly ERDD
suffered continuously from inadequate infrastructure and budgetary constraints.
For instance, ERDD was denied adequate space, equipment such as computers
and related software and most Importantly qualified staff and funds.
* Education Studies: Six educational research studies were carried out to help define
a strategy for future education development in key areas. Studies were conducted
on: (i) Development of a teacher testing program to establish base-line data
against which to measure improvements in teacher quality; (ii) A school mapping
study to determine projected student growth patterns and trends in population
shifts; (iii) In-service teacher training as a factor for consideration in the
promotion of education personnel; (iv) Analysis of actual teacher loads throughout
the system; (v) Inventory of instructional equipment and supplies in schools to
determine availability and extend of needs; (vi) Assessment of the use of science
laboratories. In addition, EARGED organized a research study on "Education
Studies Program for Turkey" and based on this research a "Study Model" was
developed so as to define the methods of future studies. Although the subjects of
the research studies were crucially important for the education system, the studies
concerned were not well done by the Turkish academicians, and related units of
MONE failed to respond to the outcome of the studies. The units to which the
6



research studies were sent did not show a particular interest to these studies and as
a result they failed to make benefit out of these studies.
* Quality of Textbook and Materials: The Textbook Technical Quality Control Unit
which was established in the ERDD under the Project was later transferred to the
Publications Department. This was because the ERDD could not accommodate
the Unit as the ERDD was not established as a center. The transfer of the Unit
however did not help solve the Unit's legal status as the BOE prevented the
Publication Department from letting the Unit be established in this department by
arguing that anything to do with publication was under its jurisdiction. The BOE
was quite difficult to work with as it could not develop ways to sharing any
responsibility which may be related to textbook content. This rift between the two
departments of the Ministry hindered the improvement of the quality of textbooks
and materials and prevented the establishment of pre-press publication capabilities
at the MONE. Although the SAR envisaged that 80% of the textbook printing
would be transferred from MONE to the private sector, only 50% of the textbook
were printed by the private sector.
* Film, Radio and Television Center (FRTVC): The Project funded a major local
training program on non-textbook teaching and learning materials design and
development.  Seminars, workshops and peer-assisted training were also
conducted for the FRTVC staff for main areas such as script writing, radio and
television sound recording, lighting for television, camera work, staff organization
for effective radio and television production, pre-production training etc.
Facilities renovation to install the equipment to be procured under the Project was
realized, but the amount of time spent to develop specifications for equipment
procurement and the repeated re-biddings for equipment procurement reduced the
effectiveness of the training carried out. The first two biddings of the MONE to
procure the FRTVC equipment were cancelled for various reasons which stemmed
from the Bank, MONE and the bidders. At the third attempt to procure the
equipment, only five packages out of 12 packages could be procured. However,
the main packages, i.e. color TV studios, which would have updated the
production of non-textbook teaching and learning materials capacity of the Center
was not realized. Failure to procure the main technical equipment and failure to
maintain the existing studios and equipment reduced the effectiveness of the
Center. Therefore, the attempt to improve the production capacity and capability
of the FRTVC through the provision of modem, updated equipment for better
quality materials was unsuccessful.
* Distribution of Textbook and Materials: A modem computerized textbook
distribution system was established in the Publication Department and its 21
regional offices. The offices were fully equipped with computers and inventory
control software. The users of the system received specialized training to operate
the system. Two comprehensive reports were prepared. The recommendations
were provided to improve management of textbook storage and distribution.
During implementation of the Project, the system was regularly upgraded and the
staff were re-trained. However, inspite of the provided facilities and repeated
training, the lack of commitment of the Publications Department prevented
efficient operation of the system. Out of 21 regional offices, only Konya office
7



was run efficiently and fully operational. In short, lack of commnitment by the
MONE was a continuous problem during the implementation of the Project.
18.  In meeting its second objective, Improving Ouality and Relevance of Teacher
Education, the Project was substantially successful.
* Pre-service Teacher Education: Pre-service teacher education was implemented by
YOK.  Despite the late start of technical assistance (4 years after loan
effectiveness) YOK made a concentrated effort to make up for the delay, and
almost all the activities foreseen under this component were accomplished with
professional skill and dedication. The component was also expanded from 34
Faculties of Education to 42 Faculties, in order to include several new Faculties of
Education.  Equipment and educational materials (computer laboratories,
education resource room, overhead projectors, video equipment, physics
laboratories, chemistry laboratories, biology laboratories, music room and social
science equipment) were provided to the 42 Faculties under the component. The
curriculum and materials development were completed and 23 textbooks were
published and distributed to the related departments of the Faculties of Education.
The books were widely used by faculty members and students. In order to meet
the high demand for these books YOK made the books available on the internet
for the use of all concerned. The master and doctoral programs were completed,
and 21 master fellows (against the planned 50 fellows) and 52 PhD fellows
(against the planned 62 fellows) obtained their degrees. There were also 18
fellows (against the planned 20 fellows) who were sent for post-doctoral research
in their respective fields. Some fellows upon their return went to their respective
faculties. Some master fellows were given scholarship by the MONE to further
their studies abroad. The fellowship program faced several problems. Timing
was a major factor in implementing the program. Due to the late start of the
technical assistance, the timing required for PhD training (33 months) extended
beyond the original closing da:e. Therefore, without the extension of the Project,
the PhD training would not have been completed. Language proficiency was
another problem, as YOK could not find well-qualified fellows to be sent abroad.
But, overall, YOK with the assistance of the technical assistance contractor,
managed to accomplish the program satisfactorily.  The Project's extension
allowed the completion of two major activities under NEDP. The Faculty-School
Partnership Program, and the Teacher Education Standards and Accreditation
System. YOK and MONE made a considerable effort to improve faculty-school
partnership. A national system of faculty-school partnership was set up after
nationwide training courses run by the Partnership Working Party, in which 2,003
received training. This led to each faculty of education entering into partnership
arrangements with the schools it uses for student-teacher work in schools. The
proposed approach to accreditation was successfully piloted in six faculties in
February 1999, and a comprehensive book on standards and accreditation was
published as the basic reference for future accreditation activity. In this regard,
national and international conferences were held on standards and accreditation in
Edirne and Ankara. YOK also conducted dissemination courses to inform
program heads of the standards and the accreditation process, and 366 people
attended those courses. In add.ition, 36 future accreditation assessors were trained.
8



* In-service Teacher Training: In-service teacher training was implemented by
MONE's In-service Training Department. The Project supported expansion and
upgrading of the In-service Training Department.  It also strenghtened its
capabilities for planning and conducting training needs assessment, and designing
in-service training to meet identified needs. The project also supported the
preparation and development of in-service teacher training materials and
programs. Due to the extremely large number of staff, the in-service teacher
training was decentralized. MONE provided in-service training for a total of
577,756 trainees in 12,529 courses. This number far exceded the figure of
200,000 foreseen in the SAR. Of this figure, 251,476 were trained centrally in
4,061 courses; 326,280 trainees were trained locally through 8,468 courses. The
Project gave special emphasis to the establishment of four Education Resource
Centers (ERC) to assist in curriculum and institutional materials dissemination, to
serve as regional depositories of teacher resource materials which teachers could
use independently of organized training programs. The Project had foreseen the
establishment of two ERC in Hasanoglan (near Ankara), one in Isparta and one in
Istanbul. Later on, ERC were established in Ankara, Aksaray, Icel and Izmir.
Although the ERC were equipped with computers, science and language
laboratories, the first three Centers were used only for computer and language
training, whereas the Center in Izmir was not established due to lack of suitable
space. The ERC were not successful in achieving the goals and objectives as
defined in the Project, mainly due to the lack of commitment by MONE. MONE
failed to provide qualified administrative and technical staff to those centers.
MONE also failed to explain the purpose of establishing these centers and did not
provide incentives to make use of these places. As a result, administrators showed
little interest in running the centers, and teachers were not keen in making use of
these centers.
19.  In meeting its third objective, Improving Management Skills and Practices, the
Project was partially successful.
*  Management Assessment and Development:  The two units (Management
Development Unit and Management Assessment Unit) as mentioned in the SAR,
were unified under the Management Assessment and Development Unit (MADU)
by MONE at beginning of the implementation of the Project.  Several
organizational structures were attempted for the establishment of the unit. An
attempt to integrate the unit into the General Directorate of Personnel or to the
Office of a Deputy Undersectary was not materialized. Eventually MADU was
given a separate status through Ministerial approval with its own regulation.
MADU The committee of managers as stipulated in the SAR was not appointed.
Procedures for management assessment were established and implemented.
Procedures for developing functional job descriptions were established and
implemented. MADU developed job descriptions for central units of MONE,
Ankara Provincial Directorate of Education and primary and secondary school
principles. MADU also initiated and completed management assessment studies,
which resulted in the publication of a regulation as the Council of Ministers
decision due to the importance of the regulation. The regulation concerned was
on the "Appointment, Evaluation, Promotion, and Transfer of Ministry of National
Education Administrator". Another important regulation on the "Norm Cadres of
the Ministry of National Education Schools' Administrators and Teachers" was
9



also published in the Official Gazette. MADU played a leading role in training
and implementing Total Quality Management and Process Reengieering.
Inspectors were trained in the process of management assessment, but the effort
could not be sustained due to opposition shown by the Board of Inspectors.
Despite the active role played by MADU in management development and
assessment activities, the uncertainity of the legal status of this unit was a cause
for concern with regard to the future activites of this unit.
Research and Planning: Six research studies stipulated in the SAR were completed
and published, after substantial delay, by ERDD. The studies concerned were on:
(i) Teacher assessment; (ii) Enrollment estimation/school mapping; (iii) Inventory
of instructional materials and equipment; (iv) In-service training for promotion;
(v) Teaching loads; and (vi) Science laboratories for demonstration. In order to
strengthen and improve the planning and coordination abilities of Planning and
Coordination (APK), staff was trained on computer usage. Strenghtening the
establishment of a process concerning budgetary requests and working with
provincial directorates and State planning Organization was realized. Finalization
of the Education Master Plan covering the schooll years up to 2011 was
completed. However, due to the introduction of the Eight-Year Continuous
Compulsory Education Law, the APK began reviewing the Education Master Plan
so as to reflect the changes brought by the Law. The Management Information
System intended for APK was not yet established, therefore, APK continued to
collect, analyse and disseminate infornation through traditional channels.
* Management Information: The Management Information System (MIS) was
designed to decentralize operations to local offices and to provide a network of
information flows between schools and local offices and between local offices and
MONE's central organization. The MIS pilot began in 1996 with provincial
offices in Ankara and Cankiri, and two sub-provincial offices in Polatli and
Cankaya. Nationwide expansion of the pilot to all provincial and sub-provincial
centers was a large and new effort for the MONE. The system managers had not
only to plan and execute a national roll-out, but do so within the context of
changes to software functionality due to changes in regulations including new
eight-year basic education schools and a strategic shift by Government to utilize
iTTnet, the nationwide information technology infrastructure being developed by
Turkish Telecom because of the more expensive costs of deploying and sustaining
a stand alone network. The pace of change affected by introduction of new
information technologies is virtually unparalled in other technical contexts. As a
result, the project equipped the provinces and sub-provinces, developed MIS
application software (delivered significantly behind schedule, however), provided
training to both network and data administrators, but did not deliver the dedicated
computer network that would link to the provincial directorates of education,
thereby enabling efficiency gains in work loads and flows of information to be
demonstrated from the effort. This sub-component was partially successful in
achieving its objectives.
* Research in Vocational/Technical Education: Although the Project did not directly
refer to Vocational/Technical Education Research and Development Center
(METARGEM), initially, METARGEM acted as a host to the establishment of
Project Management Unit by providing administrative support.  The Center
10



benefited from the NEDP through equipment, technical assistance and fellowships
abroad. However the Center has no legal status. This prevents it from recruiting
qualified staff to carry out its main research on vocational and technical education.
20.   The second objective of the Project was largely attained. Progress under the
first and third objectives was less clear cut. Although a number of concrete actions
were carried out under the project to improve inputs to learning and education
management, the educational benefits in many cases were less than expected. The
project design had focussed on improved inputs to learning and education
management, and assumed that the improved inputs would bring about the expected
improvements in educational outcomes. In a number of cases, this assumption proved
false. Inertia within the Ministry, rivalry among units of the Ministry, and the
difficulty of attracting staff and managers with the requisite qualifications meant that
the Project fell short of achieving the full potential benefit of the improved inputs.
For example, the Project supported the establishment of a new curriculum
development unit which was intended to consolidate the curriculum development
functions of several bodies within the Ministry of National Education and the Board
of Education.  The new unit was created and its staff were trained, but the
consolidation of curriculum development functions of other units did not occur. As a
result, some aspects of curriculum development have benefitted from the project,
while others have not.
21.   There were also serious problems of ownership at the start of implementation,
both on the part of senior Ministry management and the line units which were
expected to implement the various components of the Project. This problem resulted
partly from the departure at Project initiation of the Undersecretary under whom the
Project was designed, and partly from the fact that many of the key line units were not
sufficiently involved in project preparation. Project implementation took two years to
get under way, and moved very slowly for the next three years.  Project
implementation improved thereafter, due largely to the efforts of a new
Undersecretary who made a personal commitment to retrofit ownership among some
of the key line units involved in the Project.
22.   The Additional Components of the Project was substantially successful.
* Basic Education Pilot Project (BEPP): In order to assist the Government in
promoting its new goal of universal basic education, seminars, orientation courses,
follow-up and evaluation meetings were held to improve the knowledge and skills
of the central and provincial project implementation teams. With regard to rural
education activities; teachers' guides and student activity books were reproduced
and distributed to teachers and students. Various educational materials were also
distributed to 276 village schools. In-service training for inspectors and teachers
were provided. A Schools Funds program was initiated in 30 village schools to
enhance school community collaboration, and to increase enrollment and retention
(especially girls). In addition, a basic school buildings handbook was developed
by under the rural education activities of the Project. Upgrading, furnishing and
extensions of 14 rural schools in three provinces were completed. Pre and post
evaluation were contracted out to measure the achievements of the rural education
activities. Three new model schools were designed but due to the introduction of
the Basic Education Program, the construction of the schools was cancelled. The
11



BEPP was substantially successful, and provided relevant information and
experience for the implementation of the BEP.
* Secondary Education Studies: As basic education expanded, the Government
anticipated increased demand for secondary education (Grades 9 - 11). The
potential expansion of secondary education raised questions about the
affordability and cost effectiveness of education programs at this level. Secondary
Education Studies provided assistance to the MONE to help develop a strategy to
reform secondary vocational/technical education to make it more affordable and
more responsive to the market needs. Accordingly, five research studies were
conducted with the help of the technical assistance contractor. Results of those
studies were used to prepare a concept paper and a proposal for a new project
which was submitted to the Bank for review and comments. The Bank reviewed
the concept paper and recently helped obtain a US$500,000 grant in order to help
prepare secondary education and. higher education projects.
* Mother and Child Development Program: The program was an on-going activity
first initiated under the Industrial Schools Project, continued under the Non-
formal Vocational Training (NFVT) Project. Upon the completion of the NFVT
project, the program was transferred to the NEDP. The objective of this program
was to encourage school attendance and reduce early drop-outs among children
from poor households. The MONE recognized the need for special efforts to
encourage parents to send their children to school and to provide early educational
inputs to improve children's performance once they start school. The Program is a
25-week program, targeting mothers of five-year old children, which aims to
empower the mother to fullfil her role as a potential educator of her children. The
mothers were trained in a wide range of child rearing topics, cognitive
development of the child, family planning and reproductive health. The Program
is jointly implemented by the MONE and the Mother and Child Education
Foundation. Over the past four years of Program implementation 35,000 mothers
and children in 59 provinces were provided with training. In addition, 300
teachers participated in refreshment seminars. Nine orientation and evaluation
meetings were held with the participation of 574 MONE officials. Twenty-five
short films on mother and child education were broadcasted on national and local
TV channels. The program was evaluated and it was concluded that the program
was successful in achieving its aforementioned objectives. It is planned that the
program will be resumed under the second Adjustable program Loan (APL) for
Basic Education Project.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROJECT
23.  Implementation Record. The NEDP was implemented by MONE and YOK.
The two implementating agencies maintained two separate Project Coordination Units
(PCU). Both PCU were slow in launching the Project implementation. This was due
to the delay in signing TA contracts by both implementing agencies. MONE signed
the TA contract two years after the effective date of the Loan; it took YOK four years
to sign the TA contract. Lack of communication and cooperation between the two
PCU affected project implementation, especially procurement and disbursement. For
12



instance, as there was one project special account, the two PCU had difficulty in
managing the payments from the special account. On many occasions there would
not be sufficient fiunds to make a payment due to delay in replenishment requests.
24.   The two implementing agencies (MONE and YOK) had only the SAR which
was written in a short and concise style. For example, the absence of a Project
Operational Manual (POM) concerning the Project caused considerable delays and
difficulties during project implementation. Especially during procurement of TA
services at the initial implementation period of the Project, the lack of TOR caused
confusions and delay not only by the implementing agencies per se, but also by the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) which was responsible for providing the required "visa"
for TA contracts. An important and comprehensive project such as the NEDP, whose
aim was to reform the education sector, should have had a much more detailed
documents which would have assisted and guided the implementing agencies.
25.   As the largest allocation of funds under NEDP was provided for the
procurement equipment and materials (US$63.6 million) and procurement of TA
services (US$26.6 million), the Project implementation revolved around those
activities. As the Project suffered considerable delays in procurement of TA and, to a
lesser degree in procurement of equipment and materials, the PCU's of MONE and
YOK played a critical role in achieving the goals of the Project. Initially, the MONE
PCU suffered from lack of legal status and a high turnover of staff who were
seconded to the unit. But later on the MONE PCU managed to establish itself and
accumulate invaluable experience with regard to coordinating the project activities.
In fact, the PCU became the "nerve center" of the NEDP within the MONE and
showed considerable willingness with regard to the ownership of the Project
compared with the major implementing agencies within the Ministry. The experience
and the will to own the Project led to accumulation of strength at the PCU which
made it a decision maker on behalf of the implementing units. Sometimes this had a
negative effect on the Project concerning especially procurement of equipment and
materials. For instance, the PCU, despite the availability of funds, would not procure
the necessary equipment and materilas neede by the implementing unit(s) of the
MONE.
26.   TA contractor for MONE provided 55.5 month period of technical services.
The major activity of the TA contractor was to organize training programs,
fellowships and study tours and provide consultancy services as stipulated in the
SAR. During the implementation of the training programs, fellowships and study
tours, MONE adopted the approach of reducing training duration and increasing the
number of trainees. Also, the selection of trainees was not rigorous enough, as
MONE should have made available at least three applicants for each training position.
The continuity of training is also another issue which need to be addressed by the
MONE. TA consultants (national and international) worked in the implementation
units at different levels of the MONE. However, the consultants could not work
effectively due to lack of qualified counterpart staff and language problem. Although
the loan funds were used to provide English language training for selected MONE
staff, this was not taken seriously by the recipient of the training. These deficiencies
at MONE in making use of the consultants services caused a significant technical and
financial loss to the implementing agency. In short, MONE should have made better
13



use of the opportunity of the Project facilities in order to strenghten its project
management, coordination and implementation capacity.
27.   The YOK's PCU, was staffed mainly by part-time academicians who did not
have sufficient time to devote themselves to the Project activities. This led to almost
devolving the responsibility of the implementing agency to the TA contractor.
Fortunately for YOK, the TA contractor turned out to be an efficient, honest and a
professional contractor which made every effort for successful implementation of the
Project. However, the arrangement of fellowships by the TA contractor faced with
problems of timing, location and language training of suitable fellows. Only 42% of
master quota and 854% of the doctoral quota were achieved. The unspent funds from
the fellowship budget were redirected to the provision of short-term fellowships and
study tours. Difficulties encountered in the implementation of the curriculum work
included the lack of counterpart staff to work with the foreign consultants. In short,
the YOK component of the Project was completed by the closure of the Project,
inspite of four-year delay in implementation at the beginning of the Project.
28.   Major Factors Affecting the Project. Major factors affecting the Project were
examined under two headings.
Factors Subject to Government Conmrol.
29.   Counterpart funding. Inadecuate availability of counterpart funding and the
delay in releasing the theoratically available funds towards the end of the fiscal year,
so that the funds could not be used efficiently in the remaining period, was a major
handicap in implementing project activities on time. For instance, every fiscal year,
the MOF allocated funds to the MONE in the national budget. Although the
budgetary funds were supposed to be used by the MONE, the MOF released the funds
in tranches on a quarterly basis. In addition, MOF imposed a limit on the amount of
the tranches to be spent. The MONE was not allowed to spent more than 30% in the
first quarter. This approach by MOF, clearly created an uncertainity concerning
project planning and implementation by MONE. Counterpart funding was not a
major problem for the YOK.
30.   MOF Visa. The visa requirement of the MOF concerning the procurement of
services and goods was another serious cause of delay in implementing the Project.
For instance, the MOF, instead of looking into the budgetary consequences of a given
contract, often interfered with the content of the contract, especially concerning
fellowships and study tours abroad.
31.   Audit. Both MONE and YOK kept detailed project accounts. Unlike the case
for many other Europe and Central Asia countries, Bank funded projects expenditures
in Turkey is audited by Treasury Comptrollers. However, the audits which were
carried out by the Undersecretariat of Treasury Comptrollers were not consistent with
internationally accepted auditing and accounting standards. This need is being
addressed as a country issue, because it affects all projects and will require legislative
change.
32.   Political and Economic Instability. The design of the NEDP was extremely
complex and was difficult to implement. Political instability and weak coalition
14



governments hampered decisive management of the Project.  In addition,
macroeconomic instability, compounded with austerity measures during the life of the
NEDP, slowed project implementation. Turkey suffered from chronic inflation and a
foreign currency crisis for the last decade. The unexpected devaluation of the Turkish
Lira in 1994 worsened the fiscal deficit, which affected the Project negatively.
Shortage of counterpart funds often slowed implementation.
Factors Subject to the Implementing Agencies' Control.
33.   The Education Organization Law. The Education Organization Law, Act
Number 3797, of April 30, 1992, was enacted in order to re-structure the MONE and
create the unit (ERDC) which was envisaged in the SAR. However, the law failed to
create the ERDC as it was envisaged to be the center-piece of the sector reform
foreseen under the NEDP. The Ministry was aware that the ERDC was designed to
be one of the key elements of MONE's system for strengthening the quality of
education for the Country's children and youth. The ERDC was expected to develop
and recommend educational standards and to provide special leadership and guidance
for educational programming and development. As such, ERDC needed to be a major
source of knowledge, a leader in educational research, curriculum and materials
development, and educational evaluation, etc. It was very important, therefore, that
the most experienced and highly respected educators, with the best of minds were
assigned to lead and work in that important Center. With that in mind, the Project
foresaw that the ERDC would be administratively attached to the MONE's
Undersecretariat which was responsible for managing the other aspects of general
education. In this context, the ERDC's unique role and responsibilities vis-a-vis other
units were a pre-requisite to forging a true partnership between the ERDC and those
units. Forging a partnership between the BOE and the ERDC was particularly crucial
and the Bank as well as the MONE officials were fully aware that the ERDC would
never be able to function as it was agreed, unless the BOE was fully committed to
make it work.
34.   As the MONE did not establish the ERDC, the creation of ERDD, to be
administratively affiliated with the Deputy Undersecretary, was simply another
additional unit which was authorized to conduct curriculum development, thereby
making the responsibility for curriculum development in the MONE even more
confused and unwieldly than when the Project began. Moreover, generally either the
BOE or the other curricula development units ignored the existence of ERDD and
refused to cooperate with it. In addition, the first head of the ERDD whose
appointment lasted for seven years was not committed to make the ERDD an
operational unit. His appointment was political. This made it difficult for the ERDD
to collaborate with other units of the MONE. Especially, the BOE, determinedly kept
its reservations about the ERDD's role for developing curricula. For example, the
BOE procrastinated in approving the curricula developed by ERDD based on the
curriculum development model endorsed by the Minister's administrative circular.
Accordingly, the objectives which led to the creation of the ERDC -- namely, to
consolidate and improve curriculum development -- were not met due to the lack of
clear concensus within the MONE on the process of curriculum development. This
resulted in a veiled competition and rivalry between the ERDD and BOE. The ERDD
was at a loss in this competition in that the MONE did not provide adequate resources
15



and support to allow the ERDD to develop a permanent and professional institutional
capacity.
35.   Staffing. The lack of qualified staff during the implementation of the NEDP
was a recurrent problem which was not solved by the MONE, despite the MONE's
renewed efforts to appoint qualified staff. This affected the Project's institutional
development negativelly, and reduced the impact of the TA consultants due to the
lack of qualified counterpart staff and the lack of cooperation with other units within
the MONE. The staff who were assigned to work with the consultants or those who
were selected for fellowship training suffered from insufficient knowledge of the
English language. This prevented the staff concerned from communicating and
working with the consultants effectivelly, and prevented them from getting the benefit
of fellowship training. The staff turnover at senior and technical level was another
impediment which affected the Project implementation. During the nine-year
implementation period of the NEDP eight Ministers, four Undersecretaries, three
Deputy Undersecretaries and three PCU Directors changed, in addition to numerous
changes in the administrative and technical personnel of the implementing units.
D. BANK PERFORMANCE
36.   Preparation. It is not clear, in the light of subsequent experience that the Bank
team which prepared and appraised the Project fully appreciated the implications of
the institutional environment and political pressure within which the NEDP would be
implemented. Now, ex post, it appears that the team did not adequately take into
consideration the large number of activities required to realize the Project objectives,
the complexity of involving fourteen different departments. The lack of baseline data
for significantly new initiatives limited the extent to which monitorable performance
indicators could be used to monitor project progress and evaluate achievement of the
developed objectives.  The appraisal team  lacked expertise in management
information systems resulting in a less than realistic assessment of the institutional
environment within which the MIS would be implemented.
37.   An important and comprehensive project such as the NEDP, should have had a
much more detailed documents which would assist and guide the implementing
agencies. Whereas, the two implementing agencies (MONE and YOK) had to
contend themselves with the SAR only, which was written in a short and concise
style. For instance, the absence of a POM concerning the Project caused considerable
delays and difficulties during project implementation.
38.   Supervision. During the implementation of the NEDP the Bank paid a special
attention to monitoring the implementation progress, procurement and disbursement
activities. In this regard 25 supervision missions including the completion mission
were arranged between June 18, 1990 and October 14, 1999. The staff turnover was
high concerning the task management, this created deficiencies in detecting
administrative and technical problems timely which were directly involved in
implementation of the Project. For instance, with regard to the establishment of the
ERDC, administratively belonging to the Undersecretariat of MONE, the Bank failed
to realize that the The Education Organization Law, Act Number 3797, dated April
30, 1992, did not allow the establishment of the Center as it was agreed during loan
16



negotiation and as stipulated in the SAR. It took the Bank almost a year to notice that
the MON'E had not lived up to its commitment. However, the Bank after a year delay
did remind the Minister by writing a letter and explaining to him that the Ministry's
committment for making the ERDD function as agreed between the Bank and the
Government of Turkey. As judged from retrospect, Bank supervision in the early
stages of the Project was coupled with supervision of other on-going projects resulting
in a lack of focus on the Project and not enough attention to establishing milestones
with the implementing agencies and to subsequently track these in relation to Project
progress.
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
39.   Preparation. The Borrower took the initiative in Project preparation and
deserve credit for this, as well as for addition of three new components included at a
later stage as logical follow-on from other related projects (Mother and Child
Development Program, Secondary Education Studies), or as pilots for new planned
initiatives, such as the Basic Education Pilot to lead to the Basic Education Program.
40.   Implementation. The Borrower's implementation performance was adversely
affected by two factors. The first related to high turnover of staff, which manifested
itself in various ways in all parts of the Project, slowing implementation and delaying
procurements. For instance, although the senior officials of the MONE reconfirmed
their commitments in making the ERDD function, the MONE failed to live up to
those commitments because of changes in the high level management. Also, the high
staff turnover in medium administrative and technical staff was particularly
detrimental to the Project's implementation. For example, the head of Computer
Experimental Schools component left to return for full-time position at the university,
and her successor headed the CES for only a short period and then retired. Second,
there were delays in releasing counterpart funds for the construction of four ERC,
expansion and refurbishment of CLS. Overall, borrower performance should be rated
as satisfactory, but this should be qualified for each component.
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
41.   The overall rating  of the project is partially  satisfactory vis-a-vis
implementation performance.  However, judged by individual components, the
performance has been uneven. Conversely, the inclusion of three components to the
Project late in its life, which were intended to lay the ground-work for a related future
projects, can be regarded as a further interest to implement new projects jointly with
the Bank.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
42.   MONE Component. There is evidence that the MONE has assumed ownership
of the CLSs, however, allocation of adequate funds in the national budget is important
for maintaining the current standards of the 208 CLS. It is also important that
sufficient funds be allocated to provide the opportunity for non-CLS to reach the
17



standards achieved by the CLS under the NIEDP. However, during preparation and
appraisal, the question of cornstraints, such as programming, phasing, and
prioritization of the new initiatives like CLSs and CESs do not seem to be
comprehensively addressed. Also, not withstanding the cost of expanding the CLSs
to non-CLSs including rural schools, the problem of attracting the qualified staff to
run the system has been a persistent challenge at the MONE. In line with this, the
sustainability of CLS would be liZely. For the part of the Project that attempted to
provide computer literacy training to teachers, sustainability is likely, since MONE
has incorporated formal courses for teachers into its system and has supported
operating costs. For CES, sustainability is likely because of the enactment of Basic
Education Law No. 4306, which stipulates that the Government's objective is "that all
basic education age students have access to computers in the learning process" in
order to attain computer literacy, support and enhance the existing curricula, and open
the computer laboratories to the community as technology-intensive learning
environments. For testing and evaluation, the MONE has shown that it is capable of
conducting tests and questionnaires to assess student achievements and has conducted
TIMS-R for the first time;hence the sustainability of SAATs is likely provided that the
Government allocate adequate funds for the continuation of this important work. As
the textbook technical quality cont-ol unit was not established as originally envisaged
in the SAR, and because the software for distribution and inventory control of
textbooks could not become fully operational, the sustainability of improving the
quality and distribution of textbooks is unlikely. With regard to in-service training,
MONE has shown its ability to provide the training by exceeding the targeted number
of teachers who are trained at central and local levels. Therefore, the sustainability is
likely provided that enough resources are allocated to the department. The ERC were
unsuccessful in achieving the goals and objectives as defined in the Project, mainly
due to the lack of commitment by MONE, and hence the sustainability of the activity
is unlikely. With regard to management assessment and development, the MONE has
assumed responsibility for improving management skills and practices and
accordingly, conducted assessment studies for each MONE units, enacted new rules
and regulations for appointment, evaluation, promotion of MONE administrators and
developed norm cadres for schools, trained MONE staff in related subjects. However,
despite these achievements and MONE's commitment, and the likely sustainability of
the unit, the Bank has concerns about the lack of legal status of MADU. There is
evidence that MONE has assumect ownership of the ILSIS and shows readiness to
ensure continued maintenance and operation. The MONE has established a help-desk
facility. The Project's technical consultants and software developer have trained
counterpart staff. ILSIS application software has a three year warranty. But as the
technical support levels are not comnpetitive with other career opportunities in the IT
industry, the technical support staff turnover will continue. If compensation cannot be
changed, MIS sustainability remains uncertain. The execution of the research and
planning actvities of the MONE are contingent upon the appointment of qualified
staff and appropriate infrastructure. Therefore, without having the qualified staff, i.e.
education economists, education planners, and fully functioning MIS, the
sustainability of research and planning at the MONE is unlikely. With regard to the
sustainability of the components added at a later stage of the NEDP; the signing of the
loan agreement of Basic Education Project provided the MONE with the opportunity
to make a smooth transition in the implementation of the new project; the MONE,
based on the outcome of the Secondary Education Studies, would like to launch a new
project in the field of secondary vocational and technical education, and based on the
18



succesful implementation of the Mother and Child Development Program, is
considering extension of the Program activities under Basic Education Project (BEP).
43.   Sustainability of Project interventions in the Ministry of National Education
suffers from a problem which is present, to some extent, in all ministries: the
difficulty of attracting qualified staff with civil-service salaries. This was a particular
problem in areas - such as film, radio, and television production - where there are
better professional opportunities outside the Ministry of Education. While this
problem could be addressed through more liberal and more imaginative use of
consultants, the Ministry is reluctant to do so - largely because of the resentment
which results from the high salaries paid to consultants in some specializations. The
large institutional consultant contracts for educational support to the MONE may also
not have left behind the permanent benefits which were foreseen because of
ownership problems. Throughout implementation of the Project, the Ministry felt that
the consultants were forced upon it. The MONE did not make full use of the
consultants, and in many cases did not provide counterpart staff who could internalize
and sustain the potential benefits of the consultants.
44.   YOK Component. The Project has significantly increased the capacity of the
Faculties of Education to provide pre-service teacher education through the
improvement in training facilities and equipment. Institutional strengthening of
faculties through fellowships, course content and training has made the sustainability
of quality of pre-service teacher education likely. In addition, YOK has restructured
the Faculties of Education to cater to the new requirements of the pre-service teacher
training, and also established the national committee for teacher education. This is an
evidence that the implementation of the goals and objectives of the Project have led
YOK to a stronger commitment to continue the Project activities.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
45.   The MONE intends to sustain the achievements of the Project through an
improved basic education quality program, which will support in-service training for
teachers, inspectors and school principles, provide textbooks and educational
materials, and implement an IT program that will phase in different instructional
objectives starting with computer literacy and moving toward more skill-based and
subject matter related training. Classrom teachers and students in grades 4 - 8 will for
the first time in their school have access to computers for their use, administrative and
teaching tasks, and will begin their own exploration on how best to use computers in
learning and teaching. A number of other initiatives designed to improve the quality
of basic education, such as renovation and extension of school buildings around the
Country, are also planned. The MONE also intends to initiate secondary general and
vocational education project as a complementary project to the Basic Education
Program. YOK is also in the process of developing a new higher education reform
project. He bank has already provided a grant money to MONE and YOK in order to
assist the two agencies develop project proposals for the new initiatives.
19



I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
46.   Project Design. The main lesson learned through implementation of the
Project is that project design needs to be based on a realistic assessment of
constraints, and a recognition of wvhich constraints can be mitigated by project design
and which cannot be. The design of the project assumed that the improved inputs
would bring about the expected irnprovements in educational outcomes, and assumed
that the Ministry would continue to be committed to the Project even after the
departure of the Undersecretary who conceived the Project. The Project had been
designed principally by this Undersecretary and a group of like-minded collaborators
- including the Bank appraisal team and a number of hand-picked consultants. This
group was excited by the Project design and committed to making it work. But there
was limited involvement in Project design among the line units which were expected
to implement the Project, and, consequently, little of this commitment or excitement.
There was also no prior agreement on the part of those units which were expected to
relinquish some of their responsibilities under the Project, and in the event failed to do
so. In retrospect, it would have been better to recognize the structural constraints at
the start, and to design interventions into the Project to work around them, rather than
to assume them away. This would have required the full involvement of the line units
from the start of project design. Doing so would require more time for project
preparation and would perhaps require more modest project objectives and a
narrowing of project scope, but would produce better implementation results.
47.   Legal and Institutional Environment. A project such as the NEDP, which
aimed to reform and restructure basic and secondary education system, should have
been launched after the legal base was obtained to implement the Project. If this was
not possible the Bank should have taken serious measures in order to rectify the
defect concemed in line with the agreed Project goals and objectives. With the
NEDP, this was not the case as the law which was enacted at the beginning of the
Project, contrary to the agreed objectives created another unit in the MONE, instead
of a unified curriculum development center, which worsened the institutional
environment at the MONE. Future project preparation teams should be aware of the
institutional, as well as legal constraints of the implementing agencies prior to
launching a project. For instance, the Basic Education Project had the advantage of
being operational within a legal framework compatible with the Project's goal and
objectives.
48.   Human Factor. Leadershlip is important in launching new  programs.
Visionary and effective leadership is a necessary, but not sufficient condition for
succesful project implementation. As change permiates all levels of an organization,
the assignment of qualified staff become involved in implementation of the Project on
a daily basis is a very important factor. The NEDP suffered a chronic shortage of
qualified full-time staff to work at the Project. This affected the institutional
strengthening of the implementirng agencies, especially in the case of MONE the
utilization of international and national consultants, as well as fellowships and study
tours.
49.   Project Coordination.  In  a  project which  had  multi-implementing
agencies/units such as the NEDP, the PCUs played a key role in administering and
20



coordinating the Project. Keeping the PCUs adequatelly staffed so that they could
work efficiently with both consultants and the implementing units become a critical
success factor of the Project.  In addition, ownership of the Project by the
implementing units was also crucially important and helped make collaboration
between the PCU, the consultants and implementing units to be beneficial.
21



Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial         Nelgible        Not alicable
Macro Policies                      []               a                ol
Sector Policies                     [                                El                 E
Financial Objectives                El               0                0l
Institutional Development           17              I                 a         
Physical Objectives                 El              [E3l                                El
Poverty Reduction                   [                 l               E                [
Gender Issues                       [7              El                E ox
Other Social Objectives              n              E                E                 I]
Environmental Objectives            E               E                 E                [E3
Public Sector Management            El                                E
Private Sector Development          El              E                 E                ixi
Other (specify)                     [7              E                 E                 E
(Continued)
22



B. Project Sustainability             Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
(V)                       (1)                       (vi)
C           C~~~~~~~~~~~LL
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 satisfactory              Satisfactory               Deficient
(1)               ~~~~~~(1)                  (/)
Identification                       0                        3                        i
Preparation Assistance              I                        IX                         0
Appraisal                             l                      E l
Supervision                         i                                                  EJ
Highlv
D. Borrower Performance             satisfactory              Satisfactory               Deficient
(V)                      (V ()
Preparation                         [2                       [ 
Implementation                                               [E l 
Covenant Compliance                 [                        m2
Operation (if applicable)                                     J                         i:i
Highly                                             Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome            Satisfactory    Satisfactorv    Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
(/)            (V)               (V)               (V)
23



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan Credit Title   Purpose              Year of Approval   Status
First Education   To improve the quality   1971             Closed
(Ln. 748-TU)      of educational programs
and to assist: in meeting
well-defined manpower
needs in growing
industrial areas.
Industrial Schools   To improve the quality   1985          Closed
(Ln. 2536-TU)     of programs, to increase
the quantity of trained
industrial manpower and
to improve ihe planning
and management
capacity of t:he
Directorate of Technical
and Vocational
Education in the
Ministry of national
Education.
Non-formal        To increase and improve  1987             Closed
Vocational        the supply of well-
Training          trained labo:- for
(Ln. 2776-TU)     manufacturing
industries, and to
improve employment
and income generating
opportunities for
disadvantaged groups
with little education and
training.
Industrial Training  To support the       1988              Closed
II (Ln. 2922-TU)    Governmeni's efforts to
improve the quality of
trained technicians for
the industrial sector, to
meet urgent needs for
well-trained technical
and vocational teachers
in secondary, and non-
formal
vocational/technical
training.
24



Employment and    To improve allocative                     Active
Training          efficiency through the
(Ln. 3541-TU)     diversification of
employment services; to
improve the absorption
of unemployed,
unskilled workers in
productive employment;
to improve the efficiency
of labor market decisions
by providing better
information on
employment prospects;
and to promote women's
productive employment.
Basic Education I   Achieve universal    1998               Active
coverage in an expanded,
8-year basic education
cycle (formerly 5-year);
to improve the quality
and relevannce of basic
education; and make the
basic education schools a
learning resource for the
community.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle  Date Planned             Date Actual
Identification                                   May, 1988
Preparation                                      February, 1989
Appraisal                                        November, 1989
Negotiations
Letter of Development
Policy (if applicable)
Board presentation               >               April 26, 1990
Sianing                                          May 18, 1990
Effectiveness                                    July 31, 1990
First tranche release (if
applicable)
Midterm review (if
applicable)
Second and third tranche
release (if applicable)
Project completion      December 31, 1996        June 30, 1999
Loan closing            June 30, 1997            October 31, 1999
25



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96   FY97   FY98  FY99  FY00
Appraisal   4.6   24.8  28.0  21.6  9.4   1.2         0.7
Estimate                _____
Actual      0.1   1.4   1.8   2.6   8.2   14.3    7.4    19.8   12.5   1.0
Actual as %  2.2   5.6   6.4   12.0  87.2  1191.6  1057.1
of Estimate I    I _I                 I     I
Date of final disbursement: 1 November 1999 (for Loan 3192S-TU) and
20 April 2000 for (for Loan 3192A-TU)
Table 5: Key Indicators for project Implementation
Indicators for project implementatiorn not included in the SAR.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Indicators for project operation not included in the SAR.
26



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study        Purpose as defined at        Status         Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
1. Teacher     Development of a teacher      Completed      Measurement   of
assessment     testing program to                           improvements  in
establish base-line data                   teacher    quality
against which to measure                    againts the base-
improvements in teacher                     line data has not
quality over the next                       been conducted yet.
several years as a result of                Therefore the effect
the proposed project                        of  the   project
activities.                                 activities     on
teacher quality has
not          been
determined.
2. School       Implement a school           Completed      Based on this
mapping         mapping study to                            study, MADU
determine projected                         prepared a draft
student growth patterns                     regulation on
and trends in population                    "ducation Districts
shifts and resulting unique                 and Education
education needs of the                      Councils". The
respective regions and                      draft regulation
provinces.                                  was submitted to
the approval of
MONE
administration.
3. In-service   Feasibility of including in-  Completed     Benefitting from
training for    service teacher training as                 the study, the
promotion       a factor for consideration                  regulation on the
in the promotion of                         "Appointment,
educational personnel.                      Evaluation,
Promotion and
Transfer of
Ministrty of
National Education
Administrator" was
prepared. The
regulation was
published in the
Official Gazette as
the decision of the
Council of
Ministers.
27



4. Teaching    Analysis of actual teaching  Completed     Based on the
loads          loads throughout the                       outcome of the
system and implications                    study, MONE
for increased efficiency                   provided incentives
and cost savings.                          to teachers who
were assigned extra
workload.
Workloads could
not be reduced due
to insufficient
number of teachers.
5. Science     An assessment of the         Completed     Based on the
laboratories for  extent to which science                  recommendations
demonstration   laboratories are used and                  of the study,
the advisability of a                      science laboratories
equipping schools with                     of 208 Curriculum
science equipmenl and                      Laboratory Schools
materials appropriate for                 in 23 provinces
teacher demonstrations                     were equipped with
instead of small groups or                 science laboratory
individual laboratory                      equipment and
work.                                      guidebook for
science laboratories
was published by
ERDD and
distributed to 208
schools.
6. Educational   This study was not         Completed     The conclusion of
studies program  envisaged in the SAR,                     the program  was
for Turkey     however, the purpose of                    used  in  research
the study was to provide a                 studies planned and
program to the MC)NE                       conducted     by
with regard to the                         ERDD, APK  and
educational studies.                       METARGEM.
28



Table 8: Project Costs
Implementing Agency       Appraisal Estimate      Actual (US$M)
(US$M)
Local   Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
MONE
ConstructionlRenovation    41.5            41.5   27.7            27.7
Classroom Furniture         8.1      -      8.1    8.1      -      8.1
Instructional Equipment     4.2    37.6   41.8   19.4   33.0    52.4
Instructional Materials     3.9     3.9    7.8    0.5    2.5       3.0
Technical Assistance
Consultant Services      -      4.1    4.1    0.5    8.0       8.5
Fellowships             0.3      3.2    3.5     -      5.1     5.1
Local Training              0.4      -      0.4    2.2      -      2.2
Development Support          -      2.3    2.3    5.0       -      5.0
MONE Base Cost          60.7    48.8   109.5  63.4   48.6   112.0
Physical Contingencies    6.1  4.9*    11.0    -       -       -
Price Contingencies   12.0    9.4*    21.4     -       -
MONE Sub-total             78.8    63.1   141.9  63.4   48.6   112.0
YOK                              ____    ____
Construction/Renovation     1.6      -      1.6   10.2      -      10.2
Classroom Furniture         0.9      -      0.9    2.9      -      2.9
Instructional Equipment     0.8     7.2    8.0    0.4    5.7       6.1
Instructional Materials     0.1     0.4    0.5      -      0.2     0.2
Technical Assistance
Consultant Services     0.1      2.5    2.6     -      4.6     4.6
Fellowships             2.4     10.9   13.3   1.1    9.1    10.2
Local Training              0.4      -      0.4    0.1      -      0.1
YOK Base Cost           6.3    21.0   27.3   14.7   19.6    34.3
Physical Contingencies    0.6  2.1    2.7      -       -
Price Contingencies    1.3     4.0    5.3    1.9    0.9       2.8
YOK Sub-total               8.2    27.1   35.3   16.6   20.5    37.1
Total: Baseline Costs      67.0    69.8   136.8  78.1   68.2   146.3
Physical Contingencies    6.7  7.0    13.7     -       -
Price Contingencies   13.3    13.4   26.7   1.9    0.9        2.8
TOTAL: PROJECT COSTS    87.0    90.2   177.2  80.0   69.1   149.1
* Allocated for TA and Basic Education Pilot Project (BEPP)
29



Table 9: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)      Actual (US$M)
Source      Local      Foreign    Total     Local     Foreign    Total
Costs     Costs                Costs     Costs
IBRD            -        90.2       90.2        -        69.1      69.1
Government    87.0         -        87.2      80.0        -        80.0
Total          87.0      90.2      177.2      80.0       69.1      149.1
Table 10: Financial and Econonmic Costs and Benefits
No formal financial or economic cost benefit analysis was undertaken for this Project.
Table 11: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement Section   Covenant Present  Original    Revised    Description  Comments
type     status   Fulfillment Fulfillment of covenant
Date       Date
Loan      Schedule  Impleme  Compil 09/01/90                Primary     None
Agreement 5, para.  ntation   ed with                       Teacher
B.2 (a)           after                          Education
delay                         Steering
Committee
to be
established
by YOK.
Loan      Schedule Impleme  Compil 09/01/90                 Secondary   None
Agreement 5, para.   ntation   ed with                      Teacher
B.2 (b)           after                          Education
delay                         Steering
Committee
to be
established
_ _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   by   Y O K .
30



Loan      Schedule Impleme Compil  09/01/90                 Board of
Agreement 5, para.   ntation   ed with                      Education
C.2 and           after                          to undertake
para.             delay                          review of
A.1 (a)                                          arrangement
s for
planning,
developing
& updating
curricula,
textbooks &
instructional
materials.
Loan      Schedule  Impleme  Compil              09/01/95   MONE        None
Agreement 5, para.   ntation   ed with                      shall
C.2 and                                          complete an
para.                                             assessment
A.3                                               of facilities
required for
project's
curriculum
laboratory
schools &
project's
computer
education
schools.
Loan      Schedule  Impleme Not                  06/10/96   MONE to
Agreement 5, para.   ntation   compile                      ensure
C.3 and           d with                         employment
Schedule                                          of not less
2, para.                                         than 3
A.3                                               qualified
specialists
in tests &
measureme
nts to assist
in ERDC's
testing and
evaluation
center.
31



Loan       Schedule  Monitori Compil  12/31/90                 PCUs of      None
Agreement 5, para.   ng,       ed with                         YOK and
C.4      review                                     MONE to
and                                       prepare and
reporting                                 furnish to
the Bank a
plan for
annual
assessment
of progress
in project
implementat
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ io n .   _ _ _ _ _
Table 12: Status of Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Project compliant with applicable Bank Operational Statements (OD or OP/BP)
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (actuals)
Stage of project cycle            Weeks                   US$(000)
Preparation to appraisal       Not available             Not available
Appraisal                      Not available             Not available
Negotiations through Board     Not available             Not available
Approval
Supervision                        46.6                     183.1
Completion                          5.2                      7.0
Total                              51.8                     190.1
32



Table 14: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of     Month/  No. of  Days   Specialized  Performance Rating         Types of
Project Cycle Year    Persons in      staff skills                          Problems
Field  represented  Status      Developms 
Through
Appraisal
Appraisal
Trough
Board
Approval
Supervision
1     06/1990  1                SES                                   Lack of
qualified
staff at
.________PCU.
2      12/1990  1               SES                                   Behind
schedule,
slow
implement
ation.
3     09/1991  2                SES, PROC                             Personel
changes in
the PCU.
Slow TA
selection
process.
4      02/1992  1        3.8    SES                                   Behind
schedule
slow
implement
ation.
5      09/1992  2       2.0    SES, PROC                              Considera
ble delay
(2 years)
in project
implement
______                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~ation.
6      01/1993  2        5.5    SES, 00
7      07/1993  3               SES, 00,                              Lack of
SA                                   cooperatio
n between
the
implement
ing units
of the
MONE.
33



8      10/1993  1              00                                   ERDD
implement
ation
_________                                    difficulties
9     05/1994  3               TM, SA,                               Implement
MS                                   ation
_______                                      problems
10      11/1994  2              TM, MS                               Lack of
achieveme
nt of
developme
nt
_                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~objectives.
11     02/1995  1               PO                                   Long
delays in
disbursem
ent and
implement
ation.
12     05/1995  2        6.3    TM, PO                               The
institution
al changes
the Project
was to
designed
to
facilitate
could not
be
achieved
and loan
funds
could not
be used
for the
purposes
originally
intended.
13      12/1995  5       4.6    DC, PPM,                              Initiation
TM, PO,                              of the
00                                   Loan
Amendme
nt to add
three new
componen
_________________                                                 ts.
14     05/1996  1            _  TM
15     07/1996  2               TM, 00
34



16      12/1996  1                  TM,                                      Procureme
nt delay of
FRTVC
equipment
17      05/1997  3                  TM, PEE,                                 Delay in
SITS                                     curriculum
developme
nt
18      11/1997  2                  TM, SITS                                 Slow
disbursem
ent
19      05/1998  2                  TM, SITS                                 Slow
disbursem
_______                         ___________                ent.
20       12/1998  5                 TM, PEE,                                  Delay in
PROC, PO,                                procureme
SITS                                     nt of
FRTVC
equipment
21      05/1999  3                  TM, PEE,                                  Seven
SITS                                     packages
of FRTVC
equipment
procureme
nt
cancelled.
Completion                                                                         .
09/1999  3                 TM, PEE,
SITS
Specialists:
SES   : Senior Education Specialist
00     Operations Officer
TM     Task Manager
MS    : Management Specialist
PO     : Project Officer
DC    : Division Chief
PPM   : Project Portfolio Manager
PEE   : Principal Education Economist
SITS   : Senior Information Technology Specialist
SA     : Systems Analyst
PROC  : Procurement Officer
35



Appendix: A
AIDE - MEMOIRE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN. 3192-TU)
World Bank Intplementation Completion Mission
13 September - 14 October 1999
Final
INTRODUCTION
1.    Based on the Terms of Reference dated 10 September 1999, the World Bank
conducted an Implementation Completion mission of the above Project between 13
September - 14 October 1999. The mission comprised of Ms. Ferda Sahmali (Mission
Leader and Human Development Specialist), Mr. Michael Mertaugh (Education Program
Team Leader) and Mr. Robert Schware (Senior Information Technology Specialist). The
team met with officials from the Ministry of National Education (MONE), the Council
for Higher Education (YOK) and che Treasury to discuss the achievements, outstanding
problems and likely sustainability of the NEDP, and to provide inputs to the
lmplementation Completion Report (ICR). The mission also made field trips to Istanbul,
Canakkale, Siirt, Aksaray, Adana, Mersin and Konya to visit Curriculum Laboratory
Schools, Computer Experimental and Laboratory Schools, Education Resource Centers,
MONE Printing House and Faculties of Education. The members of the mission wish to
express their sincere thanks to their counterparts for their assistance to the work of the
mission, and to the staff of the schools and institutions visited for their kind reception and
efforts made to contribute to the mission's work.
2.    Since this aide-memoire is a step in the preparation of the project ICR, it does not
follow the usual format previously used in supervision mission aide-memoires. The ICR
will follow the standard format, but this aide-memoire concentrates on the achievements,
outstanding problems, and likely sustainability of the Project's goals and objectives
implemented by different units of NIONE and YOK.
IMPROVING QUALITY OF EDUCATION
Curriculum Management and Policy Development:
3.    Achievements: The SAR oF the NEDP states that "All curriculum development
units/groups dispersed throughout the MONE would be consolidated into a unified
Education Research and Development Center (ERDC). The Center would have the
responsibility for all development activities in the education sector, including curricula,
textbooks, materials, educational research, testing and evaluation etc. In addition, the



ERDC would be the operational research and development arm of the MONE for
curriculum and instructional materials development, educational research, and evaluation.
Whereas the BOE would continue its leadership role of advising the Minister on approval
of curriculum and related development outputs". The Education Organization Law, Act
Number 3797, of April 30, 1992, failed to create the ERDC as a Center which would
assume the responsibilities mentioned above and would operate directly through the
leadership of the Undersecretary of the MONE. The ERDC was created as a department
which could not unify the curricula activity which is still dispersed throughout the
MONE. Accordingly, the BOE still continue to develop and approve curricula, textbooks
and educational materials, whereas the intend of the NEDP was to elevate the BOE's
image and stature within the Ministry and the Country as a whole by enabling the Board
to be a high level executive body which it should be a true policy, decision making, and
approval agency for the Ministry, without having the lower level charge/burden of
managing an operation whose own work it would have to approve.
4.    Problems: (i) The legislation instead of creating a Center unifying all development
activities in the education sector, and directly functioning under the leadership of the
Undersecretary, the legislation, added another unit developing curricula to those already
in existence. This led to a confusion and increased the lack of cooperation between those
units that are engaged in development activities. (ii) The legislation left BOE intact, and
accordingly, BOE continues to develop and approve curricula, textbooks and other related
educational materials.
5.    Sustainability: As ERDC could not be established the "center piece" unit foreseen
in the Project, and the BOE is functioning in the same old way, comments could not be
made about the sustainability of the curriculum management and policy development.
Curriculum Development:
6.    Achievements: The Education Research and Development Department (ERDD)
has developed a "Curriculum Development Model" under the Project to be used for
developing curriculum. This model has enabled the ERDD to increase the number of
curriculum to be developed by the unit. The Board of Education (BOE) recognized this
model and recommended it for curriculum development. ERDD, by using this model has
developed 21 curricula since the beginning of the project. Out of the 21 curricula, 7
curricula belong to basic education schools programs (Grades 1-8), and the remaining 15
curricula belong to secondary school programs (Grades 9-1 1). Primary Life Sciences
(Grades 1,2,3), Biology (Grades 9,10,11) and Mathematics (Grades 1-8) curricula have
been approved by the Board of Education (BOE) and are being implemented in schools.
7.    Problems: (i) Although initially ERDD was slow in developing curriculum for
various administrative reasons, later on the ERDD speeded up the development of
curricula and therefore increased the number of curricula to 21 to be presented to the
BOE, but the ERDD did not receive the same response and enthusiasm by the BOE which
has continuously impeded the work of the ERDD. The BOE has always been reluctant to



cooperate with ERDD and declined to send its expert personnel to work with ERDD in
the process of developing a curriculum. In fact, BOE all along, since the beginning of the
Project perceived ERDD as its rival and did all it can to slow down the work of ERDD;
for instance, there are still 18 curricula developed by ERDD awaiting the approval of the
BOE. (ii) Lack of adequate space, poorly furnished offices and lack of qualified experts
to assist ERDD in curriculum develepment commissions, have impeded the efficiency of
the ERDD.
8.    Sustainability: As rivalry and lack of cooperation continue to persist between
BOE, ERDD and other curriculum developing units of the MONE (e.g. Directorate
General for Basic Education, Directorate General for Secondary Education, etc.)
sustainability of curriculum development activity will remain unstable.
Curriculum Laboratory Schools (CLSs):
9.    Achievements: In 23 provinces, 208 Curriculum Laboratory Schools (CLSs) have
been selected covering the seven regions of Turkey. The selected CLSs include 147
Basic Education Schools, 37 General Secondary Schools, 16 Anatolian Secondary
Schools  and 8 Anatolian Teacher Training Schools.  Education Research and
Development Department (ERDD) which was established under the NEDP, developed
the "Model of the Curriculum Laboratory Schools". Based on the Model, the ERDD
developed a "CLSs Standards" concerning equipment, furnishing, facilities and building
standards. In line with the CLSs Standards, 208 schools have been provided with
educational equipment using the Loan funds. The educational equipment include
computers (PCs and lap-tops), printers, data show machine, fax machines, modems,
scanners, TV sets, video recorders and video cameras, overhead projectors and screens,
tape recorders, projectors, cameras, flip charts, and physics, chemistry and biology and
life sciences laboratory sets. School furniture (individual student desks, students lockers,
laboratory tables, library shelves etc:.) of the CLSs have been funded under the local
budget. Local funds have also been used to renovate and maintain CLSs so as to meet the
building standards concerned. In this context, music and drawing rooms, computer and
science laboratories, libraries, teacher study rooms and teacher common rooms have been
established. ERDD has also developed human resources standards and provided training
for administrators, teachers, counselors and inspectors based on the standards concerned.
Educational Technology Formators have been trained and appointed to every province.
The formators provided training to the teachers and administrators concerning the use of
equipment at CLSs. As part of the implementation of the CLSs a "School Development
Model" has been initiated so as to piovide flexibility to CLSs in adapting themselves to
new developments in the education sector. Within the framework of this model, annual
school development plans have been prepared and implemented. This model has resulted
in a close cooperation between the school administration, teachers, parent and students.
10.   Problems: (i) The popularity of the CLSs has increased the demand to these
schools. Parents who want to register their children to the CLSs at the beginning of every
school year caused an increase in the number of students planned in each classroom from



30 students to 40 per classroom. The CLSs are under immense pressure even to increase
the intake to each classroom above 40. (ii) The procurement of photocopy machines
could not be realized due to a disagreement between the supplier firm and the MONE.
The matter is being dealt with at the court.  (iii) The high turnover of  CLSs
administrators and teachers is also affecting the performance of these schools negatively.
(iv) Although CLSs have been selected in provinces where Faculties of Education
existed, cooperation between the two educational establishments has not been realized as
envisaged in the NEDP. Faculties of Education used CLSs as places for internship for
their students, but failed to provide support for the development of CLSs.
11.   Sustainability: There is evidence that the MONE has assumed ownership of
CLSs. In this regard, MONE has approved a regulation for the dissemination of the CLS
Model to be implemented in other non-CLS MONE schools so as to increase the
standards of non-CLSs through out the Country. This is a correct step in the right
direction. However, allocation of sufficient funds is crucially important to maintain the
current standards of CLSs and also to enable non-CLSs to reach the standards achieved
by the CLSs under the NEDP.
Computer Experimental Schools (CESs):
12.   Achievements: At the time of project preparation it was envisaged that there
would be a pilot project designed to fully equip 53 selected secondary schools with
Computer Laboratories. The schools were equipped with a computer laboratory which
contained 20 monitors, with one server, a printer, a modem, office suite software and
educational games. Teacher rooms were also equipped with a PC each. Assistance also
included instructor training, establishing criteria for instructional software selection, and
the development/adaptation of instructional software. A committed and enthusiastic
director of the CES Department advanced the pilot activities. An additional 182 schools
were included in an unplanned expansion of the pilot. Of the total 235 computer
laboratories, 118 are in general high schools, 72 in basic education schools, 32 in
Anatolian high schools, 13 in Anatolian Teacher Training high schools, and 1 is in a
Science high school. Nearly half the number of schools are also participating in the
Curriculum Laboratory Schools (CLS) component of the project, which provides them
with additional audio-visual equipment. Thus the component achieved a quantum leap
from what was envisaged at the beginning of the project in terms of building computer
laboratories. The project has also successfully provided the appropriate staff training to
laboratory coordinators ("Formators"), administrators and teachers. The Ministry
creatively adopted a cascade model whereby teachers from the 53 pilot school project
who passed an examination would become Formators, and would in turn receive
specialized training and then train both the students and teachers in their respective
schools. School directors and other administrators, as well as parents, were inforrned
about the objectives of the program. To a growing extent, parents want their children
enrolled in a well-equipped school, and teachers see opportunities for students and
themselves in being introduced to IT. The size of classes, the interests of students and
parents, and the need to provide greater access to the laboratories have resulted in



additional weekend classes, mostly in computer literacy. In most cases, the facilities are
well-used. An  evaluation  instrument to  assess attitudes of students, teachers,
administrators, and parents toward the introduction and use of computer laboratories in
schools was administered. Teachers, principals, and parents in general considered the use
of computer laboratories improved the quality and choice of educational options. PCU
staff have become very knowledgeable and proficient at handling equipment procurement
to the Bank's satisfaction, while at the same time meeting requirements of the Turkish
administrative procedures with respect to Ministry of Finance and customs clearances,
and VAT payments. Finally, the project has greatly increased the capacity of the Ministry
to articulate a vision of how computers should be used in schools, which has led to an IT
component of the Basic Education Program and the EU's Basic Education Supporting
Project.
13.   Problems: (i) A difficulty which manifested itself throughout the project was the
non-availability in the market of Turkish software, and also software closely related to the
curricula that could complement and reinforce the teaching provided in the schools. Due
to a lack of Turkish software, an estimated 10% of the original 53 schools were not
making effective use of the computer laboratories. A specific parallel problem was the
lengthy approval process for software once it was decided which software to procure--the
Board of Education took over a year to approve the software. (ii) The assessment
instrument did not evaluate how the program affects what and how students learn, and
whether the software has been useful in complementing classroom instruction. (iii)
Teachers have not been trained in use of subject-specific instructional software, and how
to integrate these tools into daily teaching practices. (iv) Training has been of uneven
quality, with some very good training provided by the contracted universities, and others
unsatisfactory. (v) Availability of teachers and/or formators t keep the laboratories open
and operational was less than fully e ffective, some schools without ministerial-appointed
teachers have had to hire computer trainers from the private sector. (vi) There is so far
little evidence that the PCs procured for principles are used for anything but object of
prestige.
14.   Sustainability: (i) The ability to upgrade equipment in existing schools in response
to technological progress will be a factor determining whether the schools maintain their
capacity to deliver IT-supported learning. (ii) Similarly, refresher training courses will
have to be provided to Formators., and pre- and post tests should be undertaken to
evaluate the quality of this training. Up until now, the Ministry has used universities
throughout the country to supply the training during the summer. To a growing extent,
future training should be undertaken with participation from qualified private sector
training firms in the IT sector, which generally have more experience in IT training than
universities, have the equipment at their disposal, and may be able to provide better pupil-
computer ratios. (iii) The role of teachers is also very important, and a considerably larger
number must be trained to use and operate laboratories. (iv) Pilot projects should be
planned that will lead to implementation of online learning, integration of IT in the
teaching role, and extension of the Formator program to teachers and students, all of
which will support further integration of IT into schools. (v) Careful selection in the



future of schools to be provided laboratories is required, since widespread diffusion of the
technology among those with financial resources who can afford it may diminish use of
the laboratories. (vi) The availability of formators or teachers to operate the laboratories
must be guaranteed before the school year, and action taken to obtain the services of
private instructors if they are unavailable. (vii) Due to language difficulties and the
inappropriateness of most overseas software to the existing curricula, the increasing
availability of Turkish instructional software, quality reference and educational game
software, will be a factor in determining whether future initiatives to computerize
schools can continue to operate viably.
Testing and Evaluation:
15.   Achievements: The ERDD has initiated Student Achievement Assessment Tests
(SAAT) as envisaged under NEDP on a national basis. SAATs have been regularly
conducted in Science (at Grades 5,8,9), Mathematics (at Grades 5,8), Social Sciences (at
Grades 5,8,11) and Turkish (at Grades 5,8). SAATs have been carried out on 347,222
CLSs students and 38,275 non-CLSs students totaling 385,497 students. By conducting
SAATs, ERDD has achieved a capability for researching, producing, validating and
standardizing tests for establishing national norms on student cognitive achievement, for
comparative analysis and interpretation of achievement test data, and for periodically
gauging the quality of the national education system - both in terms of achievement gains
in-country and as measured against comparators of selected other countries. SAATs have
been conducted in 208 CLSs, and ERDD has already started conducting SAATs in non-
CLSs since 1998. Within the context of SAATs, a Test Item Data Bank has been
developed by the ERDD. There are 6396 test items which have been stored at the Bank
of which 3137 test items have been piloted tested and validated. In addition, the ERDD
has conducted questionnaires on students in order to identify the elements which
influence the success of the students by comparing the test results with the outcome of the
questionnaires. The ERDD has successfully completed the mathematics and science
achievement tests under the Third International Mathematics and Science Study Repeat
(TIMSS-R) in 204 selected schools to 8000 13-year old students (Grade 8) in May 1999.
There are 41 countries which are participating in this study. TIMS-R data entry, totaling
10 million, have been completed and forwarded to Hamburg Data Processing Center and
to the National Research Center at University of Boston a branch of International
Association for the Evaluation of Student Achievement (IEA) in Holland. The result of
the assessment will be completed and forwarded to the ERDD by September 2000. The
ERDD is also in preparation of applying Program of International Student Assessment
(PISA) project tests to 15-year old students. PISA covers 32 countries 28 of which are
OECD member countries. The study will be conducted in Turkish reading skill,
mathematics and science. Schools selection and implementation will begin in the year
2000.
16.   Problems:  (i) ERDD  has been chronically suffering from  inadequate
infrastructure to carry out its duties professionally. For instance, ERDD still does not
have an access to e-mail so as to communicate with its international counterparts. In



addition, lack of PCs has been impeding the work of ERDD. (ii) ERDD has been
lacking, due to budgetary constraints, qualified consultants to assist its personnel in
carrying out their duties. (iii) The lack of cooperation and friction between ERDD and
related departments at MONE has been a continuous problem. As a result, ERDD has
been suffering from lack of recognition by other departments of MONE.
17.   Sustainability: The SAATs study has been initiated for the first time under
NEDP. ERDD has shown that it is capable of conducting tests and questionnaires to
assess student achievements. In order to continue developing the scope of the SAATs
the ERDD should be allocated adequate funds to conduct these important work. The
existing experience and knowledge accumulated through SAATs should be made use of
with regard to the implementation of the Basic Education Project.
Education Studies:
18.   Achievements: Six research studies that are outlined in the NEDP have been
contracted out by the MONE for the purpose of assisting the Ministry conceming its
sectoral development program. The studies carried out on (i) Development of a teacher
testing program to establish base-line data against which to measure improvements in
teacher quality; (ii) A school mapping study to determine projected student growth
patterns and trends in population shifts; (iii) In-service teacher training as a factor for
consideration in the promotion of education personnel; (iv) Analysis of actual teacher
loads throughout the system; (v) Inventory of instructional equipment and supplies in
schools to determine availability and extend of needs; (vi) Assessment of the use of
science laboratories. Upon the completion of the studies, ERDD continued to conduct
studies by carrying out research studies on its own, and providing in-kind support to
researchers from universities. ERDD due to budgetary constraint could not contract out
research studies to research organizations.
19.   Problems: Although the six research studies have been distributed to the related
departments of MONE, the recommendations of the studies have not been fully realized
due to financial, personnel, and administrative reasons.
20.   Sustainability: Research studies should be conducted continuously, as the
outcome of these studies will provide the MONE with a guide in pursuing the MONE's
decision making with regard to sectoral development program. The sustainability of
these studies can only be maintained so long as the decision takers make use of the
outcome of the studies concemed.
Quality of Textbooks and Materials:
21.   Achievements: The two studies to (i) investigate the range of specifications for
up-graded physical production quality textbooks, determine by volume and quality level
the cost of up-grading, and make recommendations for appropriate quality levels to adopt,
and to (ii) investigate textbook reni:al possibilities and make recommendations for a



textbook rental policy initiative have been carried out. Special emphasis on improving
the quality of textbooks with regard to content and physical production specifications and
with regard to the quality of book covers and papers as well as the type of binding, some
progress have been achieved albeit under different units of the Ministry and not under
ERDC as stipulated in the SAR. For instance, a Textbook Technical Quality Control
Unit to upgrade the physical production quality of textbooks, has been established
initially under ERDD, but transferred to the   Publications Department as the
establishment of the ERDD under The Education Organization Law, Act Number 3797,
of April 30, 1992, did not allow the Unit function through the ERDD. The outcome of
the second study on textbook rental possibilities and textbook rental policy initiative
implemented in a limited way which eventually let to the suspension of the textbook
rental activity. With regard to the transfer of textbooks printing load from MONE to the
private sector, although the SAR envisaged 80% of the textbooks to be printed by the
private sector, presently, 50% are being printed by the private sector.
22.   Problems: (i) Presently, the Textbook Technical Quality Control Unit operates
within the Publications Department bereft of its legal status. (ii) Lack of cooperation and
coordination between the BOE and Publications Department resulted in a slow down in
making available the books at the beginning of every school year. (iii) With regard to the
production of non-textbook teaching and learning materials, the MONE's Film, Radio and
Television Center (FRTVC) could not produce the teaching and learning materials due to
delays in the procurement of the equipment concerned. However, five of the twelve
procurement packages have been realized towards the end of the Project. The main
procurement packages concerning the renovation of the FRTVC color TV studios did not
take place. The MONE is expected to procure the FRTVC color studio package under
Basic Education Project. (iv) Repeated cancellation of the procurement of FRTVC
equipment packages caused the resignation of several qualified personnel who went to
work at private sector. (v) High turnover in the management is also another significant
factor which has affected the implementation of the component.
23.   Sustainability: Several of the forgoing problems raise questions as to the
sustainability of this component of the Project. Undoubtedly, some achievements has
been realized, but the rift between the BOE and the Publications Department prevented
the Ministry from a potential gain with regard to the improvement in quality of textbooks
and materials.
Distribution of Textbooks and Materials:
24.   Achievements: In order to establish a modem textbook storage and distribution
system, the Publication Department and its 21 regional offices have been fully equipped
with computers and inventory control software and users of this system have received
specialized training to operate the system. During the implementation of the Project, the
system has been upgraded and the personnel have been re-trained.



25.   Problems: (i) Although the system  have been installed in the Publication
Department of the MONE and its 21 regional offices at the beginning of the Project,
numerous obstacles have been encountered with regard to making the system fully
operational. For instance, despite the training provided by the supplier firn and the
MONE's General Directorate of Educational Technology, due to the lack of qualified
technical personnel, the system is far from being fully operational. (ii) Lack of
commitment by the Publication Department with regard to the appointment of qualified
technical and administrative personnel to run the system has been a continuous problem
during the life of the Project.
26.   Sustainability: As the provision of improved warehousing and materials handling
equipment and facilities, and implementation of a modem computerized inventory,
ordering and distribution accounting capability and improved delivery and retailing
arrangements could not be fully attained, the sustainability of this component has been
poor.
IMPROVING QUALITY AND RELEVANCE OF TEACHER EDUCATION
Pre-Services Teacher Training:
27.   Achievements: Pre-Service Teacher Training component of the NEDP was
implemented by the Council for Higher Education (YOK). Although there has been
considerable delays in the start of implementation, the goals and objectives of have been
attained. Initially, the component covered 34 Faculties of Education and later on this
figure was increased to 42 Faculties. Equipment and educational materials including
books have been provided to all Faculties of Education. The curriculum and materials
development activities have been completed with the help of the subject panels,
expatriate and Turkish consultants. Urtder the component, 23 books have been published
including 19 books on the main subjects of the teacher education. Master program in
accordance with the project plan has been completed and 21 master fellows have obtained
their master degrees, in addition to 52 PhD fellows who have been awarded their
doctorate degrees. With regard to post-doctoral studies, 18 candidates have been sent
abroad to conduct research in their respective fields. Study and monitoring tours took
place to the USA and the UK to monitor the progress of the fellows. As an additional
activity of the extension of the YOK component of the NEDP, a faculty-school
partnerships program has been initiated with the schools of the MONE to set up an
internship system for student- teacher work in schools. Another additional activity in this
component was the agreement on standards for teacher education courses in the faculties
of education and to set up an accreclitation system by which the achievement of the
standards will be judged and teacher e6ucation programs accredited.
28.   Problems:  Acquiring Technical Assistance faces considerable delay at the
beginning of the Project. This let to delay in procurement as well sending the fellows
abroad for graduate and post-graduate studies. The two year extension enabled the
fellows to complete their studies abroad.



29.   Sustainability: The project has significantly increased the capacity of the faculties
of education to provide teacher education. This has been due to the improvements in
training facilities, procurement of relevant equipment and the realization of fellowships
abroad, course content and training, which resulted in institutional strengthening of the
faculties of the education. YOK accordingly has restructured the Faculties of Education
to cater for the new requirement of the pre-service teacher training and also established
the National Committee for Teacher Education.  This is an evidence that the
implementation of the goals and objectives of the Project have led YOK to a strong
commitment for the continuation of the Project activities after the completion of the
Project.
In-Service Teacher Education:
30.   Achievements: The NEDP assisted the In-service Training Department in
expanding and strengthening its capabilities for planning and conducting training needs
assessment and designing the implementing the in-service programs to meet the identified
needs. Training has been decentralized and accordingly in-service training has been
provided on a central and local level. MONE achieved in providing in-service training
577,766 trainees in 12529 courses. Centrally 251,476 trainees have been provided with
training and locally 326,290 trainees have been trained. Four Educational Resource
Centers (ERCs) in Aksaray, Ankara, Icel and Izmir have been established under the
NEDP. The ERCs have been furnished and equipped so as to carry out the special
purpose training on a selected basis for various groups of education personnel on topics
not normally covered in the other programs. ERCs provided in-service and special
purpose training for in-service teacher trainers, school inspectors, and provincial
directorate staff etc.
31.   Problems: (i) ERCs were supposed to assist in curriculum  and institutional
materials dissemination, to serve as regional depositories of teacher resource materials
which teachers could use independently of organized training programs and to assist the
ERDD and universities in school based research. The lack of qualified technical and
administrative personnel prevented these ERCs from fulfilling their duties.
32.   Sustainability: Except for the in-service training carried out at central and local
level in four ERCs, the ability of the ERCs to sustain the remaining activities is doubtful
due to the lack of commitment by the MONE.
IMPROVING MANAGEMENT SKILLS AND PRACTICES
Management Assessment and Development:
33.   Achievements: Management Assessment and Development Unit (MADU) was
established under the Project, in May 1994, by the approval of the Minister. With regard



to the assessment activities, MADU has developed a Model to be used in assessing the
units of the Ministry and applied this Model on the assessment of CLSs administrators'
level of independence. With regard to the development activities, MADU has completed
job descriptions of all positions covering total ministerial units and accordingly, an
important Regulation with regard to "Appointment, Evaluation, Promotion and Transfer
of Ministry of National Education Administrators" completed and published at the
Official Gazette on 30 April 1999. The regulation was published as a decision of the
Council of Ministers due to its importance. The aim of the regulation is to define the
qualifications of the administrators at every level of the MONE administration and to
regulate appointment, evaluation, transfer, recruiting and dismissal of the administrators
by taking into consideration the criteria of career, suitability, record, seniority,
examination grades etc. This achievement was accomplished through close cooperation
between MADU and General Directorate of Personnel of MONE. Another important
Regulation on the "Norm Cadres of the MONE Schools' Administrators and Teachers"
also published in the Official Gazette on 10 August 1999 to establish and identify the
rules of appointment of personnel to MONE schools. MADU has also been engaged in
promoting Total Quality Consciousness in Education Admninistration System and drafted
a "Regulation on Total Quality Control in Education". Another regulation on "Education
Districts and Education Councils" has also been drafted by MADU and presented to the
Undersecretary for approval.
34.   Problems: As MADU has been established by the approval of the Minister, it has
no legal status. The staff working in this department are secondments from the other
units of the MONE. The uncertainty of MADU's legal status is a cause of concern for the
future of this important unit.
35.   Sustainability: There is ample evidence that the MONE has assumed ownership of
MADU and the Ministry has shown its commitment concerning the activities of MADU
despite the uncertain legal status of the unit.
Research and Planning:
36.   Achievements: Research, Planning and Coordination Council (APK) of the
MONE improved the qualifications of its staff through external and locally organized
training so that it can upgrade its planning, research and coordination functions. The
cooperation with the State Planning Organization in preparation of the Education Master
Plan has been a major activity of the Council, however, upon the enactment of the eight
year continuous basic education law, the Council had to concentrate its time on the Basic
Education Program implementation activities.
37.   Problems: As the establishment of the Management Information System (MIS)
has significant implications for APK's functions, delays in the JLSIS applications directly
affected the collection and processing of statistical and budgetary data. The activities
outlined in the SAR was partially fulfilled as a result of this delay.



38.   Sustainability: The execution of the activities of the APK as outlined in the SAR
are contingent upon the appointment of qualified personnel. For instance, education
economists and researchers and education planners should be made available to assist
APK in carrying out its duties.
Management Information:
39.   Achievements: As part of a first stage devolution of planning and decision-
making responsibility from the central Ministry to the provincial directorates, the project
implemented a pilot MIS project called ILSIS (MIS for provincial and sub-provincial
directorates.) This pilot began in 1996 with provincial offices in Ankara and Cankiri, and
two sub-provincial offices in Polatli and Cankaya. The pilot was designed to support the
operations of the local offices, increase the speed and quality of services, streamline
work-flow within the local offices, support the transfer and authority of information
analysis and decision making to local offices, and train local and central personnel in the
use of information technology (IT) for improved decision making. Government decided
in 1997 to expand the pilot project to 80 provinces, 24 sub-provinces, and 34 secondary
schools, which were to be connected through a dedicated wide-area data communications
network (WAN). This would allow for integration of local and central level databases.
The project has fully equipped the provinces and sub-provinces, developed application
software modules (personnel, statistics, budget and accounting, facilities and others),
provided training to both network and data administrators, and, following recent delivery
of the application software, started to train MONE and provincial and sub-provincial staff
on ILSIS applications. Installation of the hardware and systems software was completed
in May 1999. There has been a progressive need for provincial and sub-provincial IT
staff to receive updating training, and the Ministry has taken action in this direction.
However, the project did not deliver the dedicated computer network that would link to
the provincial directorates of education.
40.   Problems: (i) There were continued delays in the ILSIS application software
development, many of which were due to factors beyond the control of the software
developer, such as modifications required in software modules due to changes in
regulations including new eight-year basic education schools. As a result, the final
application software was delivered 15 months later than scheduled. (ii) In the preparation
and procurement processes, the Ministry was planning to build its own computer network
for the WAN connectivity. However, Government decided instead to utilize TTnet, the
nationwide information technology infrastructure being developed by Turkish Telecom
because of the more expensive costs of deploying and sustaining a stand alone network.
This strategic shift required new technical specification requirements (broadband
switches and leased lines were no longer necessary), and subsequent procurement delays.
Educational access to this network was not available at the close of the project. However,
as part of the project completion process, MONE has provided the Bank with a request to
finance under the Basic Education Project the WAN connection with Turkish Telecom,
modems, and fiber-optic termination hardware, and has given assurances that application
has been made to Turkish Telecom for related approvals. (iii) The loss of technical



support staff to the private sector is a reality given the fact that with sufficient training in
use and management of computer networks qualified persons can eam up to three times a
monthly salary in the IT sector. High personnel turnover is particularly apparent in the
provinces.
41.   Sustainability: There is evidence that MONE has assumed ownership of the
ILSIS, and shows readiness to ensure continued maintenance and operation. The Ministry
has established a help-desk facility at EGITEK. The project's technical consultants and
software developer have trained 20 counterpart technical staff who will provide network
support and maintenance assistance to all directorates. There is a 3-year warranty on the
ILSIS application software. An evaluation process is in place to ascertain costs and
benefits of ILSIS, as measured by efficiency gains in work loads and flows of information
resulting from the fully implementec. ILSIS. Ongoing training for technical personnel is
planned in system maintenance and use of ILSIS application software modules, which
will meet the need for updating training. But the reality is that technical support salary
levels are not competitive with other career opportunities in the IT industry, and thus
technical support staff turnover will continue. If compensation cannot be changed, non-
monetary incentives need to be present (e.g., variety of work, size and variety of projects,
job security, opportunities to obtain experience/additional experience). The extent of
MONE's commitment to project sustainability remains open without offering sufficient
employment condition and salaries to attract qualified technicians.
Center for Research in Vocational-Technical Education:
42.   Achievements: The  Vocational and  Technical Education  Research  and
Development Center (METARGEMi, initially, provided administrative support for the
establishment of Project Management Unit to manage all of the MONE's education
development projects including those financed by the Bank.  METARGEM  has
conducted research activities in vocational and technical education.  The unit has
developed a model for re-structuring vocational and technical education in Turkey. The
Center has also been engaged in the program development activities with regard to
vocational and technical education.
43.   Problems: METARGEM has been established with Ministerial approval, but it
has not attain legal status yet.
44.   Sustainability: Despite the uncertain legal status of the unit, the Ministry has
committed itself to the activities of METARGEM.
ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES
45.   The NEDP was re-structured on 18 January 1996 so as to allow the inclusion of
three additional activities to be funded under the Project.



Basic Education Pilot Project:
46.   Achievements: Basic Education Pilot Project (BEPP) was a preliminary project
providing the grounds for the presently implemented Basic Education Project. With
regard to the rural education component of BEPP seminars, orientation, follow-up and
evaluation meetings were held in order to improve the knowledge and skills of the central
and provincial project implementation teams. Teachers guides and student activity books
were reproduced and distributed to teachers and students. Various educational materials
have been distributed to 276 village schools. In-service training for inspectors and
teachers to improve their understanding the philosophy and basic principles of active
learning have been provided. School funds program was initiated in thirty village schools
to enhance school-community cooperation, to increase enrolment and retention
(especially girls), to encourage the parents and the community to participate in school
related activities and get involved in decision making process. In addition, basic school
buildings handbook was developed. Upgrading and extension of 14 rural schools in three
provinces have been completed and furnished. Pre and post evaluation have been
conducted in order to measure the achievements of the rural education component of the
Project.
47.   Problems: During the course of the implementation of BEPP, architectural and
engineering projects for three new schools have been prepared and tendered. Due to the
enactment of the new Basic Education Law, the MONE cancelled the tenders and did not
go ahead with the construction.
48.   Sustainability: The signing of the Loan Agreement of the Basic Education Project,
provided the MONE with the opportunity to make a smooth passage with regard to
implement the new Project.
Secondary Education Studies:
49.   Achievements: The "Feasibility Studies on Secondary General and Vocational
Education" have been completed and based on the outcome of the Study, the MONE has
prepared a Concept Paper for Secondary Vocational and Technical Education Project and
submitted it to the consideration of the Bank
50.   Problems: Problems have not been encountered with regard to the preparation of
the feasibility studies.
51.   Sustainability: The MONE, in addition to the Basic Education Project, would like
to launch project preparation with the aim of signing a loan agreement to implement a
new project in the field of secondary vocational and technical education.



Mother and Child Development Program:
52.   Achievements: The Mother and Child Development Program has implemented
with the collaboration of the MONE and the Mother and Child Education Foundation
since 1994. The program is a 25-week program targeting mothers of five year old
children and to empower the mother to fulfil her role as a potential educator of her
children. The participants of the Program have trained in a wide range of child-rearing
topics, cognitive development of the child, family planning and reproductive health.
Initially, the Program has been funded through the Non-Formal Training Project and later
was extended under the NEDP as of 1996.  Over the past four years of its
implementation, the Program has covered 35,000 mothers and children in 59 provinces.
In terms of training, 92 coordinators and 400 teachers have been trained. In addition 300
teachers have participated in refreshment seminars. Nine orientation and evaluation
meetings have been conducted with the participation 574 Ministry officials. Twenty five
short films on mother and child education have been broadcasted on national and local
TV channels. An extensive evaluation of the Program has been conducted and the results
of the evaluation has shown that the Program was successful in fulfilling its main target.
53.   Problems: No  significant problems have been  encountered  during  the
implementation of the Program.
54.   Sustainability: Based on the successful implementation of the Program, the
MONE is considering the extension of the Program's activities under the Basic Education
Project.
World Link Program:
55.   Achievements: This activity was not envisaged under the NEDP, but MONE
decided a pilot should be launched. because of its new IT program which phases in
different instructional objectives starting with computer literacy and moving toward more
skill-based and subject matter related training, including use of the Intemet. WorLD is
establishing educational on-line  communities  for  secondary school students and
teachers around the world, in order to expand distance learning opportunities, improve
educational outcomes, facilitate cultural understanding across nations, and promote
broad-based support for economic development. The pilot project in 19 secondary
schools from 16 provinces started in September 1998. With extensive inputs from an
EGITEK team that is evolving to play the role of a "center of excellence" in relation to
use of the Intemet in schools, in-service training for directors, teachers and students has
been provided to the pilot schools, along with technical assistance. Because of the
general enthusiasm about the Internet, 12 new schools have requested Ministry approval
to join the program. Extra budgetary income for the pilot has come from WorLD, which
has also provided technical assistance to carry out a monitoring and evaluation study of
the pilot. The monitoring and evaluation protocol is likely to be used in the formative and
summative evaluation of the IT component of the Basic Education Program. EGITEK
has demonstrated commitment to provide pedagogical support to the schools in terms of



local training sessions, and implementing monitoring and evaluation instruments
designed to gather information about the achievements and changes to teachers, students
and parents of the courses worked on in the project.
56.   Problems: (i) The most serious immediate problem facing the program is the lack
of time teachers and students reportedly have for computer-related activities within their
school schedule in general, and to participate in the design of collaborative learning
projects in particular. When participation in a pilot is during "spare time", the scope for
realizing benefits may well be limited. (ii) A specific problem parallel to that is the lack
of familiarity with online learning settings, and the difficulties of using both the Internet
and Internet-based educational materials to improve curriculum usage. There remains a
question mark as to the effect of introducing an educational on-line community program
when the framework for IT use and collaborative learning has not been firmly established.
57.   Sustainability: An important aspect of the program is that schools need to have
Internet access, as well as visits by program coordinators to discuss with teachers and
students problems in use of the Internet in teaching, and ways to share information and
collaborate on projects. The first priority of the Ministry and WorLD should be to ensure
that existing schools and identified teachers and students continue to participate in the
program, and to provide training and learning events oriented towards the design and
implementation of collaborative interdisciplinary curriculum-based projects. Evidence
that the schools have assumed ownership of this activity and plan to continue it should be
demonstrated.
CONCLUSION
58.   Following the completion of this mission and receipt of final information from the
implementing agencies, an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be completed.
Implementation Completion Report will cover, inter alia, the achievement of project
objectives, the implementation record and major factors affecting the project, project
sustainability, an assessment of outcome, future operations and the key lessons learned.






Appendix: B
MONE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PRJECT
MONE COMPONENT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Like in many other developing countries, Curriculum Development, teacher training, equipment supply and using technology
in education seem to be the most important issues in Turkey
However, because of insufficiencies and deficiencies in pre-service teacher training, lack of equipment in schools, not using
the Educational Technology Means well enough, not upgrading the teachers continuously through in-service training and
other methods have come out as elements hindering expected developments in education process.
It has always been in the Governments Plans so far to support the education of young population and help them in becoming
productive, decision maker, problem solver and strong willed individuals by increasing their quality and skills parallel to the
development plans of the country. Delays occurred in upgrading curricula programs and not being able to provide a rapid
development because of the lack of sources to be used in order to increase the quality in pre-service and in-service training
have continuously affected the quality of the education in a negative way.
According to the data given in "National Education 1999 with Numerical Data" published by APAK of the MONE, there are
7,936 pre-schools, (7,389 are of state and 587 are of private) in the whole country; and there are 44,525 primary schools,
(43,874 are of state and 651 are of private); there are 2,611 general high schools, (2,170 are of state and 441 are of private).
Total number of the pre-schools, primary and high schools is 55,112. When we subtract the number of private schools, which
is 1,679, from this number, it becomes 53,433. Institutions giving vocational and technical training, Apprenticeship Training
Centers and Public Training Centers are not included in this number.
On looking at the number of the schools giving general education and the size of the education sector, the difficulty to man-
age them from the center can be understood easily.
National Education Development Project (NEDP) has been prepared in order to elevate the primary and secondary education
up to the averages of OECD countries by increasing the quality and accreditation, to elevate pre-service and in-service teacher
training up to the standards of OECD countries by increasing the quality and accreditation, to become more effective and
economical in resource use by improving administrative and operational skills and implementations of the Ministry of Na-
tional Education. It is envisaged that for establishing a new curriculum policy, increasing the quality of text-books and educa-
tion materials, establishing a new testing and evaluating approach in order to observe the quality of education continuously,
for researches to increase the quality of pre and in-service teacher training by means of establishing a new managerial ap-
proach to the education system and 177.2 Million USD source has been allocated.
15 Ministry Units, having a relationship with the Formal General Education directly or indirectly, have been included in the
NEDP and these units have been given service through "Technical Consultancy Services" and furnished and equipped
through national and international tenders realized within the scope of the project.
A- BACKGROUND AND PROJECT OBJECTIVES
According to the census done on 30 November 1997, the population of Turkey is 62,865,574 and the increasing rate of the
population is 1.62 % annually. 21,983,217 of the population live in rural regions while 40,882,357 live in cities. When the
annual increase rate taken into consideration, it is expected that the population in 2005 will be 69,825,000 and in 2010 it will
be 74,119,000.
Republic of Turkey gives priority to the education of the youth ( who make the 70% of the population) by increasing the edu-
cational level of its students. Though many improvements about this issue have been recorded when years are taken as the
basis, schooling rates in primary and secondary education are not yet as required. It should be increased. The government has
been trying to elevate the level of schooling rates up to the objectives defined in the Development Plans by signing agree-
ments with international financing institutions as well as making use of State Budget and Public Contribution. As of 1999, the
schooling rate in primary education has been 88.9 % and in secondary education it has been 54.7%, 23.9% of which belongs
to the vocational and technical education.
1



Schooling Rates And The Number Of Schools, Teachers And Students According To
The Grades Of Educational Institutions
EDUCATION GRADE               NUJMBER    NUMBER    NUMBER    SCHOOLING
OF          OF STU-        OF TEACH-         RATE (%)
SCHOOLS         DENTS             ERS
Pre-School                                 7,976          207,319          11,825                8.9
Primary Education                         44,525        9,512,044         316,991               88.9
Secondary Education                        5,708        2,013,152          39,644               54.7
General Secondary Education                2,611        1,094,610          70,936               30.8
Vocational Technical Secondary Edu-        3,097         918,542           68,728               23.9
cation
Sub Total                                 58,209       11,732,515        468,460
Non-Formal Education                       6,280        2,935,929          44,042
Higher Education"                          6,567        1,322,345          63,223               22.4
GRAND TOTAL                               64,556       15,980,789         575,725
* Rates are figures of the years 1996-1997 acadernic year. Source: APAK Numerical Data National Education 1999 (Ankara
1999)
** Figures about Higher Education belongs to the 1997-1998 academic year.
The governments have been aiming to decrease the general education share of the secondary education to 35 % but to in-
crease the share of vocational and technical education to 65 % in their Development Programs. According to the data of
1996-1997 academic year, the existing schooling mate of primary education throughout the country was 88.9 % and the objec-
tive for the year 2000 is 100%. Schooling rate of secondary education was 54.7%, 30.8% of which belongs to the general
high schools and 23.9 % belongs to the vocational and technical high schools. Development objective envisages the school-
ing rates for the secondary education as 75% and for the general high schools as 40.5 %, and for the vocational and technical
education as 34.5% by the year 2000. When we take the figures aimed for the year 2000 as the basis, we can see that the
schooling rate of the general high schools is 54% and of vocational and technical high schools to be 46%. Final objective of
the government is to decrease the schooling rate in secondary education to 35 % in general high schools and to increase it to
65% in vocational and technical high schools.
In order to reach planned objectives, new projects should be designed in addition to the present ones. Besides available man-
power (directors, teachers and other personnel) resources like buildings, institutions, time, money and every kind of equip-
ment, production and education tools should be used in all programs based on the cooperative working principles with the
organizations and institutions concerned. Besides these, with respect to the Development Plans, Government Programs and
the needs of business market, it is necessary to reclesign the process of vocational and technical education so that the students
can develop the problem solving and decision making skills and therefore to prevent huge crowds from entering universities
and to elevate the quality in education and training up to the averages of OECD countries. That is why, a number of meas-
urements should be taken in order to re-examine and re-structure both general education and vocational education with re-
spect to the pre-service and in-service teacher training, curricula programs, documents, physical facilities, financing and man-
agement issues so that the capacity of the education system can be upgraded to meet the needs of Turkey in the years of 2000s
at the international level.
1. National Education Development Project (Ln-3192-TU) has been proposed to the World Bank (WB) by the Turkish
Government in order (a) to elevate the primary and secondary education up to the averages of OECD countries by increasing
accreditation and quality. (b) to elevate teacher training up to the averages of OECD countries by increasing accreditation and
quality. (c) to increase the productivity and effectiveness in resource use by increasing the management and administrative
skills of the MONE. An "Appraisal Mission" formed by the WB visited Turkey in October and November 1989, and re-
viewed sectors dealing with the project and prepared Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) #8328-TU dated 18 May 1990 after the
proposal Republic of Turkey. According to the Loan Agreement, which was signed with respect to the objectives defined
above between the Republic of Turkey and the WB, the WB agreed to give US $ 90.2 Million of the total cost of the project,
which was US $ 177.2 Million. Remaining US $ 87 million was the commitment of the Republic of Turkey.
2. It has been envisaged that necessary studies should be done to review, renew and upgrade education programs, text-books
and education materials of each field, to establish of physical capacity of the project schools and equip them, automation of
stock control and delivering systems of text-books and to establish of a testing and evaluation unit within the ERDC to con-
nect extensively with the program and education material producers, to make necessary arrangements for each teacher to be
taken into the in-service training at least once in every five years, and to prepare new programs for this and build new In-
service Training Centers and widespread in-service training at the local level throughout the country; in order to widespread
authority and responsibility gradually into the provincial and sub-provincial level as well as the (Management Information
System) computer network to be established to increase the administrative and operational skills of the MONE. The following
2



objectives have been included in the project with the Loan Amendment dated January 29,1996: (i) spreading basic education
that was increased from 5 years to 8 years, (ii) a feasibility study in order to improve vocational technical education, (iii)
spreading pre-school education, through the Technical Consultancy Services and overseas fellowship training and the units
under the project improving the quality and accreditation in the primary and secondary education have all been envisaged.
B- ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
FIRST OBJECTIVE
3. Curriculum Development: The MONE has established Education Research and Development Directorate (ERDD) as it was
foreseen by the project. Studies of testing and evaluation, research and curriculum development within the ERDD, which was
established in 1992, have been continuing. It has been foreseen in the project that the curriculum developed by ERDD shall
be experimented in CLS and that successful ones shall be made widespread across the country. Primarily " Curriculum De-
velopment Model " was prepared by ERDD. The model in question was suggested by Board of Education to be used in the
activities for curriculum development. According to this model the following curriculum programs have been prepared by
ERDD: Secondary School Biology 1-2-3, Primary School Social Life Knowledge 1-2-3, Primary School Science 1-2-3 for
Combined Classes, Basic Education Mathematics 1-8, Foreign Languages ( English, French, German) 4-11, Secondary
School Geography 9-11, Secondary School Turkish Language and Literature 9-11, Basic Education Turkish 1-8, Secondary
School Physics 9-11, Secondary School Chemistry 9-11, Anatolian Secondary School Foreign Language( English, French,
German) 9-10-11. Among these programs curriculum for Primary School Social Science 1-2-3 and Basic Education Mathe-
matics 1-8 have been approved by the Board of Education and others are waiting to be approved. Not only the delay experi-
enced in the period of curriculum development, but also the delay experienced in the period of approval by the Board of Edu-
cation prevented from experimenting sufficient curriculum in the CLS. Although curriculum development phase of the project
seems to have remained incomplete, it is possible to compensate this component of the project.
4. Training Material Development: In order to reinforce the capacity of training material other than text-books of the MONE,
establishment of hardware in FRTED and Technical Consultancy and Scholarship were also foreseen for the same institution
in the project. For the equipment of FRTED, International bids which were conducted on 5 October 1994, and 16 June 1995,
were canceled. As a result of the international bid which was made on 15 April 1998, 5 packages (6, 8, 9, 11 and 12) could be
purchased out of 12 packages. Since other packages which the firms offered were not found suitable, they were canceled.
Although the WB did not admit to re-bid of these packages on the grounds of the closing date of project, the WB has declared
that the Bank will accept to re-bid these packages for this institution from the Basic Education Program's funds if the MONE
is eager to purchase these equipment. With this approach of the WB, it seems possible to enlarge the capacity to develop
training material other than text-books through the usage of the resources of Basic Education Program.. However, the delay
which occurred at this phase has to be ceased as soon as possible.
5. Testing and Evaluation : Testing and Evaluation Section was established within the ERDD. For this section so as to do the
functions foreseen in the project, 4 consultants were employed for 38 n/m in the Testing and Evaluation Section of the
ERDD. 9 staff were sent abroad for 72 n/m for education and they worked in this section after they completed their overseas
training. The section was made a member of the "International Evaluation and Measurement Institute" whose center is in
Netherlands so as to be able to compare with the other countries studies of testing and evaluation which were done or will be
done across the country, and also computer and software programs were purchased for this section through project funds.
6. As a result of the reinforcement given to the Testing and Evaluation Section, this section has improved and reached a ca-
pacity to make testing and evaluation at international standards. As a result of this input, this section has conducted lots of
pilot tests and final tests all over the country including CLS and non CLS. These studies of the Section have been presented
by both reports and briefings to the Senior Staff of the Ministry at various times. The studies which the Testing and Evalua-
tion Section has done and is still doing prove that the objectives set for this section in the project have been achieved. Besides
a great majority of CLS have formed their own Testing and Evaluation units within themselves. Schools are realizing and
evaluating the testing and evaluation studies in digital surroundings in these units.
7. Research Studies: The followings are the studies which were done by ERDD from the beginning of the project till 30 June
1999 according to the first objective of NEDP. Educational Investigation Program for Turkey, Inventory of Educational and
Instructional Materials, Enrollment Estimation/School Mapping : An Educational Planning Tool for Turkey, Demonstration
for Science Laboratories, Teacher Assessment, Analysis of Teaching Load, In-service Training as a Requirement for Promo-
tion, A Research for Course Promotion and Credit System, Comparison of Educational Indicators of Turkey and OECD
Countries, Curriculum Studies in MONE, Student Dresses in Primary Level, Collecting the Educational Researches in Tur-
key, Contemporary Teacher Profile Needed in Turkish Education System Towards 21. Century, Importance of Current Insti-
tutions Giving Private Courses in Turkish Education System. First seven of these studies were conducted by the coordination
of local and foreign specialists at the ERDD. The other seven were conducted by the Research Team of the ERDD. Beside
these researches, the ERDD has supported a lot of researches which were conducted by master and Ph degree students of
universities. The ERDD has still been doing 15 research studies, 11 of which will be finished by the end of 1999, and 4 of
them will be finished in 2000.
3



8. The ERDD is planning to support research studies in the following years. All these researches show that local and foreign
specialists who worked at ERDD assisted the research capacity of ERDD according to ISt objective of the project. Therefore,
it can be concluded that 15' phase of the project has been succeeded.
9. Improving Quality of Text-Books: There was a positive development in improving the quality of the text-books, that is, one
part of the project in processing levels of the prcject. In 1990s, books were printed in 3rd quality papers but nowadays they
are printed in 15' quality papers. To improve quality of books, personnel were educated in other countries and came to Publi-
cations Department with a Ministry Approval but the Board of Education do not let this authority transfer. As a result, quality
control of books' content is done by the Board of Education and press quality control is done by the Publication Department.
10. Textbook Distribution and Stock Control &Lstem: This system was set up to connect Publications Department and re-
gional chiefs in 21 provinces by computer network. For this purpose, an international bidding was held on 24 October 1994
and US $ 445,000.00 contract was signed for hanrware and software with the awarded firm. The firm fulfilled its responsibil-
ity and turned over the system in working condition. Afterwards, a US $ 30,000.00 equipment purchased from the same firm
to up-grade the system, and a training was given by this firm for staff who use the system. Despite the fact that the same
training was given by the General Directorate cf Educational Technologies personnel, except for Konya, there is no other
province using the system actively because they have not been able to employ the personnel with needed qualifications to use
the system.
11. Curriculum Laboratory Schools (CLS): After the physical capacities for 208 CLS, which were chosen in accordance with
the criteria defined in SAR ATTCH-8, were established with the resources from the general budget and local resources as a
conclusion of an international bidding realized on 15 August 1995 for the equipment of these schools, the needed equipment
were delivered to these schools. The related unit. under the light of the works of native and foreign experts, has determined
the equipment to be used more effectively and productively in education and training, CLS Section of ERDD has prepared the
guidelines of "CLS Model" and "Science Laboratory Usage Guide" and has distributed this to schools. Besides, regular in-
service training activities are being organized to educate school administrators and teachers on the effective and productive
usage of these equipment which have been purchased. These schools have become attractive in their surroundings and are
guiding other schools nearby. Hence, it is possible to say that this phase of the project is successful.
12. Computer Experimental Schools (CES): An international bid was organized in 1994, September 27. It was organized to
set up laboratories for the 53 CES which have 20+1 computers and various training material including educational software.
These schools were selected according to the criteria mentioned in the SAR Attach.-8, from 7 regions whose physical capaci-
ties were set up through State Budget and Local opportunities. Hardware and software have been distributed to 53 CES. It
was decided to set up 182 schools with 20+1 computers and other training materials including educational software across the
country with each city having at least one computer laboratory. As the implementation of CESs was found successful by the
consultants, this was the result achieved through mutual agreement between the MONE and the WB and it was run through
the approximately US $ 8 Million - resource which was estimated to have remained from project Loan an international bid
was organized on 18 March 1998. Hardware and software in this content of the bid were distributed to the 182 schools and
they are being used in education at the moment. It can be said that this phase is the least problematic and the most successful
phase of the project and it can be said that object.ives which were set in the project have been achieved. The success which
has been achieved by CES studies and carried out within the framework of NEDP has set the agenda for usage of computer
and software in education. It has leaded new pro ects, and Basic Education Project has been planned relying on experience,
success and result obtained from that. CES has taken the objective of priority role for the rest of the projects being imple-
mented by the MONE.
SECOND OBJECTIVE
13. In-service Teacher Training: It is stated in SAR that, according to the MONE the number of teachers that need in-service
training is too much (200,000) and this need can be met via 4 In-service Training (Education Resources Centers) to be estab-
lished under the project, as well as TV broadcast:, video cassette delivery, and distant-education implementations benefiting
from programs organized in the place by instructors. Within this context, in Ankara, Aksaray, icel and Izmir four Education
Resources Centers have been established and these centers have been equipped with the bidding conducted for both CESs and
CLSs. Besides the objective to train 57,000 teachers annually by giving in-service training authority to Provincial Director-
ates since 1995, the amount of in-service training courses and amount of trained teachers has been exceeded. From the begin-
ning of the project till 31 December 1999, a total of 998,203 teachers have been trained in 12,542 in-service training activi-
ties organized at central and local level. 420,437 teachers have completed their four year license education, therefore the rest
577,617 is the number of the teachers trained via in-service training. This number is more than the number of the teachers in
Turkey (which is 523,617). Though in SAR the number of the teachers that have to take in-service training has been foreseen
as 57,000 (24,000 of whom via in-service training and 33,000 of whom via Distance Education ), only in 1999, 71,319
teachers were given in-service training (13,440 of whom central, 57,879 of whom local level) except for those who have
completed their license education. Therefore it is possible to say that the amount foreseen has been exceeded and this compo-
nent is successful.
14. Equipping of Education Resources Center (E,): It is foreseen in SAR that ERCs should be equipped with staff and
equipment so that it will become the multi-purposed branch of the MONE in regional level. After establishing the necessary
physical capacity and physical places for four ERCs by the MONE, related equipment were provided witn the ICBs realized
4



firstly for 53 CES, and for 208 CLS. Moreover, "Being a Teacher with All Aspects" and "Guidelines to Prepare In-service
Training Program" have been prepared by native and foreign experts working under the Technical Consultancy Services in
In-service Training Department. These documents have been printed with the sources of the project and distributed. It is pos-
sible to say that activities done by the MONE in order to reach the project objectives are successful.
THIRD OBJECTIVE
15. Improving Management Skills and Practices: In this component of the project, Management Assessment and Develop-
ment Unit operating within the General Directorate of Personnel at the beginning, and this unit has been restructured by being
separated from this institution with the Ministry approval. As a result of the evaluations realized by the native and foreign
experts working at the MADU within the Technical Consultancy Services of the project, terms of references for the positions
in this unit and for the ministry units and performance assessment criteria have been established. The terms of references
established by MADU have been sent to the State Personnel Department to be approved. These terms of references have been
sent to all state organizations by the State Personnel Department. The Ministries and other organizations taking these terms of
references as the basis have improved their own terms of references and had them published in the Official Gazette. Moreover
MADU regularly gives in-service training to the personnel of both central and local offices and to the teachers on Total Qual-
ity Management. A monthly news bulletin is being published in order to inform Ministry central and local offices about the
activities of MADU, so it is possible to say that this component has been successful.
16. Combining Some of the Administrative Units With Similar Characteristics: These activities that should be realized under
the project are not said to be given enough importance. In approximately nine years during which this project was being im-
plemented, with respect to the Combining Some of the Administrative Units with Similar Characteristics, only legal regula-
tion realized was the combining General Directorate of Computer Education and Services and Film, Radio and Television
Education Center and establishing General Directorate of Education Technologies. Except for this, there are no other im-
provements and no other efforts in this direction because of bureaucratic obstacles. Therefore, it is not possible to say that this
component of the project has been successful.
17. Strengthening Strategically Planning and Education Research Functions: For this component of the project native and
foreign experts who worked at MADU and APAK, as well as the ministry personnel have realized important activities. The
activities realized by APAK are as follows: Preparing Education Master Plan, Preparing Education Master Plan Attachments,
Introducing Education Master Plan to the Public, Studies to Estimate Population of the Country and Provinces in Accordance
with the Age Groups by the year 2000, Research of Present Education Situation at Provincial Level, Annual Implementation
Plans of the MONE, Comparative Study of International Education System, Research for the Education Needs in the Whole
Country. Though Education Master Plan completed at the beginning of 1997, because of the 8-year Compulsory Education
Law, this plan has to be revised. Studies to revise this report have still been going on at the APAK. Education research func-
tions of the MONE have been strengthened by the overseas fellowship training and native and foreign consultants have been
appointed within the MADU and APAK under the project.
18. Improving and Expanding Management Information System: By means of Project Management Information System, it
has been envisaged to expand and develop present MIS of the MONE in order to improve the effectiveness, productivity and
coordination in the education system management. With the approval of the MONE and the World Bank, pilot implementa-
tion of Management Information System has first been applied in Ankara and qankiri provinces, and sub-provinces of An-
kara, Qankaya and Polatli. Pilot implementation has been found successful as a result of the experiments realized during the
software development phase and consultants' assessments; and it has been agreed to extend MIS implementations to the whole
country. In order to extend MIS, an international tender was realized on 7 April 1997. MIS, which has been functioning and
software of which can be used, has been completed in the provinces, studies necessary to make it work as WAN have been
going on. If TT-NET agreement is signed with Turk-Telekom, the system will be put into use. Why this system is not oper-
ating actively is because Turk-Telekom has left TURNET use for TT-NET. Because of this change, the MONE has not been
able to sing a contract with Turk-Telekom. However, the Ministry is about to make an agreement with Turk-Telekom by
using the Basic Education Project sources, in order to start this system to operate. It is possible to say that this component of
the project has been successful in equipment and software procurement, though it is not possible to neglect the delays in oper-
ating. The MONE is also eager to establish of Decision Support System in this scope through Basic Education Program's
fund.
19. Increasing the Research and Development Adequacy of METARGEM: It has been envisaged that this unit should provide
equipment that is necessary to analyze and operate basic data in order to support and strengthen this function, and also to
upgrade and strengthen the education data collection and analysis via project as well as its duty to prepare and steer the proj-
ects, purchase and keep the records. Research and development authority of this unit has been increased with overseas fellow-
ship training, equipment provided and also with the support of native and foreign consultants gained from the project, there-
fore objectives planned in the project have been reached
Amendment Done In The Project Loan
20. In the budget allocated in accordance with the planning realized during the project implementations, because of the
changes in needs, the categories of NEDP Loan were changed with the mutual agreement of the MONE and the WB January
29, 1996. In accordance with the needs occurred during the project Implementations, loan categories were changed on 13
February 1997.
5



Objectives Included In The Project With The Aniendment Made On 29 December 1996
21. Expanding Basic Education: Basic Education Project has been prepared in order to extend 8-year Compulsory education
and for this project US $ 13.1 Million resource has been allocated from the NEDP loan. Upper level management of the min-
istry has decided this project to be applied with the coordination of the General Directorate of Primary Education. Following
the 8-year Compulsory Education Law # 4306, published in the Official Gazette # 23,084 dated 18 August 1997, and also
after the Basic Education Project started to be applied, Basic Education Pilot Project has been stopped by the MONE.
22. Expanding Pre-school Education: Mother and Child Education Program, aiming to educate mothers and children living in
disadvantaged conditions, which previously was implemented under the Non-formal Vocational Training Project, has been
supported through NEDP with the mutual agreement of the Ministry and the World Bank since 1 January 1996 after the clos-
ing of Non-formal Vocational Training Project on '31 December 1995. Mother and Child Education Program was applied to
3628 mothers and children by 112 teachers in 23 provinces in the 1995-1996 academic year. Within the coming years this
implementation was widespread and finally in 1993-1999 academic year the number of the provinces became 59, teachers
became 269 and the number of educated mothers and children became 9324. During the implementation period of this pro-
gram, the number of the mothers and children has teached 26.053 This program has been implemented within the coordina-
tion between General Directorate of Apprenticeship and Non-formal Vocational Education and Mother and Child Education
Foundation, and success has become more than expected.
23. Feasibility Study: In order to improve Vocational Secondary Education in Turkey, by searching the background and pres-
ent situations of the sector, and as a result of this research, establishing of a system in which man power would be trained to
compete in the international business market in any way, and realizing a study with respect to the preparations of project
proposals to establish such a system were included in the project with a loan amendment made on 29 January 1996. In order
to make such a research a contract was signed with Center for Occupational Research and Development firm from the USA
that was awarded with the tenders realized with Short List method on 12 December 1997. During this study implemented
under the coordination of METARGEM, the background and present situation of the Vocational and Technical Education
have been examined. The findings gained from these researches have been submitted to the ministry in a report. These find-
ings have also been presented to senior officials of the ministry in a briefing. With respect to the data gained from these stud-
ies, a "Concept Paper", prepared by the MONE so that a new project can be prepared for the Vocational Secondary Education
development, has been sent to the World Bank.
24. Technical Consultancy Services: Within the scope of NEDP, foreign language training services have been purchased from
International Language Center and Turkish American Association as well as Technical Consultancy Services and training
services have been purchased from The Ohio State University, Bilkent University, Anadolu University, Center for Occupa-
tional Research and Development and Argon International Constancy Ltd. For the Technical Consultancy Services and Fel-
lowship training component of the project, a contract was signed with The Ohio State University on 11 June 1992, and studies
were started. Within the scope of the contract signed with The Ohio State University, consultancies needed by the ministry
units were purchased. Moreover, the necessary fellowship training taking place in the Technical Consultancy Services have
been used effectively and productively and required benefit has been gained from these, nevertheless, some of the fellowship
training has become a short-term study - tour, because foreign language knowledge of the staff has not been good enough.
Personnel who had overseas foreign language traini rig have worked in the fields they were educated at least twice as much as
their overseas training. However, these personnel h.ave not worked in the related units continuously after completing their
compulsory work period.
25. Use of Loan: US $ 67,100,000.00 of the (US$ 90,200,000.00) Loan was allocated for the MONE and 48,624,752.70 has
been used but US$ 18,475,247.30 has not been used. US$ 8,119,455.99 is the amount that has remained from the Basic Edu-
cation Pilot Project implementations including the US$ 476,391.01 repaid amount by the UNICEF to the W.B which had
been paid for the Basic Education Pilot Project to the UNICEF previously.
26. Use of Government Budget: Expenditure that should be made for the National Education Development Project has been
put into the annual Budget Laws (as often as MONE budget is convenient according to the years) since 1991. At the begin-
ning of the project, appropriations- added in the budaet under the name of "National Education Development Services" have
been added in the budget under the name of "National Education Development Project" since 1993. Except for personal ex-
penditures, which is US$ 68.2, Million the govermnent contribution is US$ 63.4 Million. Moreover, great resources have
been provided to change the physical capacity and to establish physical places in the 53 CESs, 208 CLSs and 183 CESs from
the local administrations and parents. In 1998 the contribution of the parents for the establishment of 182 CES's physical
capacity was US $ 700,000. In short, the expenditurL realized by MONE, local administrations and parents can be said to be
satisfactory.
C- MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
27. The MONE has established Project Coordination Unit in order to coordinate and implement the project financed by the
World Bank and the MONE. At the beginning of 1992, PCU was restructured and reinforced with the staff, most of whom
6



completed their master degrees and know a foreign language. It has been stated in the SAR that " Implementing activities
related to development, upgrading the quality in primary and secondary education, in-service teacher training, im-
proving the management shall be carried out by Education Research and Development Center, In-Service Training
Department and General Directorate of Personnel (Regulations Department) respectively".
28. It has been stated in Table 5 Implementation Program (A) Project Management Paragraph 2 of the Loan Agreement that"
MONE and YOK each shall establish a Consultancy Comniittee to monitor the developments in project implementa-
tions and to control whether these developments are proper to the project objectives and shall enable this committee
to continue until the completion of the project."
29. The MONE established Project Advisory Committee with the Ministry approval # 433 dated 6 May 1991. The meetings
of this Committee have been realized with difficulty most of the times because the approval for this Advisory Committee,
consisting of senior officials of the MONE, unit directors under the project, and the directors of other institutions, has been
taken according to the names and because of the changes occurred in the positions of these officials. That is why this Com-
mittee was renewed with approval of the MONE # 1223 dated 10 May 1994 with respect to the positions but because these
people are too busy, it has not been possible for them to meet. Directors of the ministry units under the project and those
responsible for the project have met every month at the PCU with the coordination of PCU.
30. Project management has been realized by the MONE units under the project coordinated by the Project Coordination
Unit and also with the guidance of the WB. During the implementation period of the project, 8 Ministers, 4 Undersecretaries,
3 Deputy Undersecretaries, 3 PCU Directors and 3 Project Directors have worked. During this period, there have been many
changes among the positions of the directors of the units under the project and those responsible for the project. These
changes have been the major factor delaying the project implementations.
31. Projects Department, previously working within the General Directorate of Boys' Technical Education, has been estab-
lished again with the ministry approval under the name "Project Coordination Unit", which has been directly connected to the
Undersecretary since 1990. Project Coordination Unit, which was re-structured again in 1992, consists of 1 Director, 2 Dep-
uty Directors, Project Directors responsible for each project and 8 Section Directors. Because the general policy of the min-
istry does not enable Project Coordination Unit to employ professional staff, teachers, who still belong to their schools,
mostly knowing a foreign language and having been trained on project implementation issues abroad had to be employed.
32. It has been thought to make use of the experience of the foreign and native consultants provided in the scope of the Tech-
nical Consultancy Services of NEDP in the Project Coordination Unit and other units of the MONE under the project. How-
ever, units of the MONE under the project have experienced difficulties in finding the qualified staff to work as the counter-
part of the consultants.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY:
33. Within the scope of the project, 147 primary education schools, 53 high schools (16 of these are Anatolian High Schools)
and 8 Anatolian Teachers High Schools have been chosen as CLS, the above mentioned schools have been chosen from 7
region and after the establishment of physical capacity of these schools, the necessary equipment have been procured in order
to test the developed curricula. Also within the scope of the project, after completion of the necessary physical capacity of the
53 CES chosen from 7 region, a computer laboratory consisting of 20+1 computers and peripheral equipment has been es-
tablished and they have been used in education. After the successful implementation of the CESs that has been registered by
the reports of the specialists, the MONE proposed to the WB to use the remaining money from the project fund and the WB
found the proposal acceptable. After the no-objection of the WB, 71 Primary Schools, 12 Anatolian Teacher High Schools,
98 High Schools and 1 Science High School (total of 182 schools) were chosen as CESs and equipped with computer labo-
ratory consisting of 20+1 computers. From the 182 schools 73 primary education school, 31 high school, among the 208 CLS
the ones with the appropriate physical capacity have been chosen and therefore the number of the computer laboratory estab-
lished within the scope of the NEDP has been increased to 235. The CESs and the CLSs have been found to be the favorite
among the existing schools in their region. Therefore, there is an increase in the demand of the parents of the students in order
to have their children enroll in one of these schools. The central administration and the local administration are conscious
about the situation of these schools and are trying to find ways to equip and spread these schools. Especially the voluntary
contribution of the parents to this matter is worth appraising.
34. Although the automation system of the computers in the Publication Department and the regional offices of the State
Textbooks at the 21 provinces, do not work functionally according to the project, as there shall be changes in the vision of the
people, this shall enable the system to work functionally in the near future.
35. There has been no result from two ICBs organized for equipping of the FRTVD within the scope of the project. As a
result of 3 tenders for 12 packages only equipment in 5 packages has been procured, and also the most important production
equipment constituting this tender has still not been procured. But the Ministry is willing to complete this component of the
project. Also the WB is in favor of completing this component of the project by procuring the related equipment under the
Basic Education Project (BEP). The procurement procedures shall be done in 2000 and the missing component of this proj-
ect is expected to be completed under BEP.
7



36. In order to reach to success in the In-service Training of the Teachers, by the help of the international tender for equip-
ping the 208 CLSs and 53 CESs, the ERCs have been equipped in Ankara, Aksaray, izmnir and Mersin. At these centers, not
only in-service training for project schools' teachers and principals has been given, but also regular in-service training activi-
ties have been continuing. Within the period of the project, also the construction of the National Education Academny, which
could not be completed and begin to work, is continuing. With the help of the local administrations, by starting the in-service
training for the teachers at least once in 5 years which is anticipated in the project, has helped to quicken the objectives.
37. There has also been a development in the increasing of the efficiency of the Administrative and General Management of
the system within the scope of the project. A lot of research and development studies have been conducted successfully by
the specialists and by the MONE staff working within the scope of the project technical consultancy services at ETGEM,
APAK, MADU and METARGEM. These research and development studies shall continue after completion of the project.
The Ministry shall continue to develop and widen these studies. Education Master Plan, establishing of the Terms of Refer-
ence for the personal of the Ministry, Total Quality Management and spreading the MIS throughout the country, establish-
ment of Decision Support System are some exampl-s of these studies. Continuing the development of these studies is the
primaty objective of the Ministry. After the Terms of Reference for Ministry's Units prepared by the Management Assessment
and Development Unit (MADU) within the scope of the NEDP have been sent to the State Personal Unit in order to get ap-
proval, both the State Personal Unit and the other Ministries took the Terms of Reference as a model for the preparation of
their own Terms of References and published them at the Official Gazette with this example, it is easily understood that,
NEDP made changes not only in the education system but also in all the State organizations.
38. With the help of the following studies; develop:mg the curriculum, testing and evaluating, developing the quality of the
textbooks, increasing the success of the students by spreading the usage of technology within the education, increasing the
quality of the teachers by spreading the in-service training and also establishing of country's biggest computer network,
preparation of the education master plan and the other studies related to the development of the management, NEDP has
given opportunity for the future studies and also by the help of the gained experiences, the MONE has a chance to use them
in the future studies. The project schools chosen among the schools within the scope of the Basic Education Project, the
above mentioned schools both have been continuing to be equipped just like the equipment within the scope of the NEDP
benefiting from the resources of the Loan and the general budget is also another source to be taken into consideration.
E- BANK PERFORMANCE
39. Education has been the most effective process within the social development because of its importance in establishing
social structure and directly effecting future lives of i:he individuals. That is why countries give the necessary importance to
the education and allocate the required sources, and put their investment with great patience in this field because education is
a long process, the outcome of which takes too long to get the expected results. The purposes of NEDP have been deter-
mined as: (a) to make student success closer to the averages in the OECD countries by increasing the quality in primary and
secondary education (b) to make teacher standards similar to the norms and standards in the OECD countries by increasing
the quality and accreditation in teacher trading (c) to make it possible to become more economical and more effective in
source use by improving managerial and administrative skills and implementations within the MONE. That is why it is the
best designed project with respect to elimination of the deficiencies in the education sector.
40. It has always been difficult and sensitive matter to add new functions and institutions to the system. Societies have always
resisted against the changes. This is a general rule and not limited with this project. Although it has been agreed to make
several modifications in the system with this project, some of these modifications have been realized while some have not.
Sources that the project envisaged and the strategy have been insufficient in order to realize the changes. The Bank has
monitored and oriented in a satisfactory way with respect to the guidance and assessment matters so as to provide a good
personnel attendance and to implement project effectively. When the whole performance of the project taken into considera-
tion, preparation and supervising activities can be said to be satisfactory.
F- BORROWER PERFORMANCE
41. During 1980s, the Government started implementing structural modification programs in the economy and accelerated the
opening of Turkish economy to the international maikets, therefore for the international competition. In order to stimulate
export, it is necessary to develop and support the Small and Medium Sized Enterprises. Establishing new technological ca-
pacity should be given priority and investment should be done on well-educated, qualified and skilled man power that is able
to solve problems, give and carry on decisions. This is necessary to meet the needs of the industry. In the scope of this policy
followed, the MONE started to adapt NEDP in 1990 in order to make general education reach at the same level as the OECD
countries. For this reason the project has been prepared in accordance with the development policies of the country. In order
to carry out the project effectively within the existing system, the MONE, as it is envisaged in the project, has established a
Project Coordination Unit under the Undersecretary of the MONE.
42. On the other hand, within the framework of ministry personnel policy, the staff of the PCU have temporarily been ap-
pointed with the Ministry approval, responsibilities of these staff have been hindered. However, since 1992, the Unit has been
re-structured within itself and a Service-Directive has been prepared. Terms of Reference of the staff have been done in this
8



Directive and appointments have been realized in accordance with these references. The PCU does not have any legal support
except for the Loan Agreements. As PCU does not exist in the Law # 3797 dated 1992 about the Organizations and Duties of
the MONE, projects implemented under the Loan Agreements should be carried out again by the teachers temporarily ap-
pointed with the Ministry approval. All the staff working at PCU, especially the key personnel are temporarily appointed
teachers. These staff have been working with great effort and sacrifice though they get nothing extra but their monthly sala-
ries.
43. The PCU has established a Project Follow-up Section in order to make effectively use of the equipment purchased under
the project. However, as PCU does not exist in the Law #3797, it does not have its own budget, therefore it is difficult for
PCU to control the use of equipment in the schools. But, by means of the in-service courses prepared by ERDD and ET-
GEM, and the documents delivered during these courses as well as the guidelines prepared by these units have made it possi-
ble for this equiprment purchased under the project to be effectively used for training and education. Effectively use of this
equipment have also been noticed during the visits realized by the WB to the project schools and this matter has been stated
in the Aide Memoires.
44. It has been envisaged that during the project implementations it is necessary to meet the expertise needs of the units under
the project within the scope of the Technical Constancy Services and to support them with the training for the fellowship in
order to increase the capacity of the project implementations of the Ministry. The idea to employ one native consultants with
the foreign consultants has come out for the first time with the NEDP and it has been put into practice. However if some of
the Ministry Units receiving consultancy support had provided qualified counterparts for these experts, productivity and the
theoretical benefits demanded from this consultancy would have been as it was required. Those who were sent abroad for
fellowship training, because they knew the language well, have completed their training in a year and got their "Masters"
Degrees. The personnel returned from overseas training have to work in the related unit twice as much as the period they
spent for their training abroad. This legal necessity has been applied for all of the NEDP fellowship. But, because of the per-
sonnel policy of the MONE, some of these staff have left the units after completing their compulsory working periods. In fact
the Ministry should have taken necessary precautions to keep these staff as they had received overseas training and gained the
required experience by working in the fields related to the education they had. It will be possible to reach the planned level in
the sector and benefit from these well-educated and experienced staff only after employing them in the places for which they
had been trained. Training of fellowship first in the country, then abroad costs a lot for the borrower, and that makes it more
costly for the government to let them leave (if the position of these people had been upgraded, they would not have left) with-
out taking advantage of them. Very few personnel at the PCU (all of whom are teachers) have tried hard to complete the ac-
tivities like purchasing equipment, counseling, and also realizing coordination between the units under the project as well as
finishing all activities within the project duration. They have tried to economize as much as they can while purchasing the
equipment and good quality equipment and services have been purchased with cheaper prices. With a little more of the money
of the FRTVD equipment that couldn't be purchased, labs consisting of 20 +1 computers have been established in 182 CES.
So it is possible to say that the performance of the borrower is satisfactory.
G- ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
45. Within the National Education Development Project, it is possible to say all of the physical restoration and equipping
objectives (except for the equipping of FRTVD) as well as some of the objectives oriented institutional development have
been achieved. Students of the project schools equipped under the project have met computers and started to have better edu-
cation by using technology in training and education. These schools have become the example for the other schools in their
regions and school management and the parents have been trying to make their schools similar to the CLS and CES. Again
within the scope of the MIS, Ministry units under the project have been equipped with the necessary computer supplies. Other
Ministry units under the project have been equipped with not only computer and office equipment but also other audio-visual
equipment and other necessary software. While the project was being implemented in its original design, with the Loan
Agreement amendment made on 29 January 1996, Basic Education Pilot Project (US $ 13.1 Million), Mother-Child Program
(US $ 3.3 Million), Vocational Secondary School Study (US $ 0.5 Million) were added to the project. The Ministry has
continued to realize necessary studies to be done within the scope of Loan Agreement amendment dated 29 January 1996,
besides the objectives defined in original design of the project. General Directorate of Primary Education has implemented
Basic Education Pilot Project included in the project with the Loan Agreement amendment. Long term overseas and in-
country training realized under the technical Consultancy Services of the personnel National Education Development Project
increased the experience and knowledge of the staff on different implementations in the fields they were trained. Moreover,
again under the Technical Consultancy Services of the Project, short term study tours organized for the personnel chosen
from Ministry units under the project and for the directors of the project schools increased the knowledge and experience of
these personnel. Some of these personnel have become successful in transferring the experience they gained to their institu-
tions.
46. Mother and Child Program, that was added to the project with the Loan Agreement amendment dated 29 January 1996,
was implemented in 18 provinces and 1751 mothers and children were reached, however, during the three and a half years
that the program has been implemented within the National Education Development Project the number of the provinces has
increased to 59 and the number of the mothers and children has become more than 26.053. For the Vocational Secondary
9



Education feasibility study included in the project with the same amendment a contract has been signed with an American
Firm called CORD and within the framework of the data gained through the studies realized in the scope of this project "Con-
cept Paper" has been prepared by the Ministry ancl submitted to the World Bank.
47. Evaluation tests prepared by the ERDD under the project have been regularly used and monitored both in project schools
and non-project schools. Evaluation and Testing Section of ERDD has implemented pilot tests for the 64,581 students from
5h to I Ih grades in Science, Maths, Social sciences and Turkish. Results of these tests have been submitted regularly to the
Bank's Missions along with the Progress Reports prepared by the MONE. A total of 3137 items chosen from 6396 items have
been written in these tests. These items have been collected in 44 books. The same Section implemented "Final Tests" to
361,323 students from 5., 8., 10. and 11. Grades of CES and non-CES in fields of Science, Maths, Social sciences and Turk-
ish in 22 provinces of 7 regions from May 1995 till the closing date of the project.
48. On the other hand, Development Objectives Assessment Process that has been prepared by the native and foreign experts
as well as the authorities working in the Ministry units under the project and approved by the first level superiors has not been
pursued and implemented well enough. It has not been yet completed to measure "the development of the quality" resulted
during the implementation of the project because the related units have not practiced this performance assessment criteria as
required.
49. It is observed that the project has been accelerated during the recent years and disbursement as well as the procurement
activities of the project have increased because of this acceleration following the completion of the studies by the consultants
worked under the Technical Consultancy Services. Because the equipment purchased has reached schools only towards the
end of the project, and success of the students has been affected directly. Teachers and students of these schools have been
able to use this equipment any time they want. Students and public have also used this equipment after the school time; and by
opening the use of the equipment for the public and organizing courses at the weekends have made it possible for these
schools to gain financial support. These improvements will affect the outcomes of the project in a positive way. However,
shortening the approval period for the curricula models developed within the scope of curricula development models prepared
by ERDD is another matter to improve the success in the schools and should be solved by the Ministry as soon as possible.
50. The second objective of the project, which is to increase the quality and accreditation of teacher training through in-
service training has been achieved both in quantity and quality by transferring the authorization of in-service training activi-
ties from the central offices to the local ones. Native and foreign experts working in the In-service Training Unit have pre-
pared two books named " Being A Teacher With All Aspects" and "Guidelines of In-service Program Development" have
contributed a lot to the in-service training of the teachers in a positive way. These books have been printed in a great many
numbers with the own sources of the project and delivered to schools and In-service Training Centers. During the imple-
mentation process of the project all teachers graduated from two-year teacher training faculties have completed their license
completion education program.
51. As the third objective of the project most of the activities have been completed; however activities started within the proj-
ect but not yet completed at the closing date of the project and also the activities that were completed before but have to be
reviewed because of the 8-year compulsory education have still going on. It is the priority of the MONE to realize TT Net
contract to be made between Turk Telekom in the scope of the MIS especially with the funds of Basic Education Program
Funds and to start MIS operate actively. The MONE also has been trying to establish of Decision Support System which is
second step of MIS.
H- FUTURE OPERATION OF PROJECT DELIVERABLES
52. Project Coordination Unit of the MONE has been going on its studies. PCU will be able to make use of equipment pro-
vided by the project in effectively by working in coordination with the Ministry units under the project in the project objec-
tives direction, also PCU will be able to organize in-service training activities which will be necessary for this. Moreover the
PCU will get the failure which occurred within the guarantee period of the products to be repaired and will inform the firms
about the failure, and get the firms to repair the failure during the expiration of the guarantee period.
53. In order to increase the outcomes of the project in positive way it is very important to solve the teacher problem in proj-
ect schools and to obey the regulations prepared by ERDD when appointing teachers and directors in these schools. In order
to provide this it is necessary to work in-coordination with the local management and also with both ERDD and ETGEM. It is
also important to obey the regulations about transferring teachers and directors of the CLS and CES from one project school
to another.
54. Within the coordination mentioned above, in-service training should be performed in coordination with the In-service
Training Department in the Education Resources Cznters equipped with the project sources, and in cases where these centers
cannot meet the needs ( during the in-service traini ig activities organized by local administrations), works to meet in-service
training needs regularly by using project schools as in-service training centers. Employing teachers received overseas and in-
country training as formator teachers in these centers will increase the benefits of the in-service training.
10



55. It is necessary for the related units to add sufficient appropriations into their budgets in order to realize the activities
mentioned above and to supply the schools with the additional education materials they may need. On the other hand, the
MONE will take into consideration all reports and deliverables which have been prepared by the MONE's staff and consult-
ants provided under the TA contracts of NEDP in its future operations. As a sample; a copy of OSU's consultancy services
reports has been received by ERDD from the PCU.
1- LESSONS LEARNED
56. National Education Development Project has been planned as a social sector project aiming to develop the quality of the
Turkish National Education and to improve the central and local management of education. In order to realize the project
objectives studies have been done in 443 primary and secondary schools in all the provinces (80) as 15 General Director-
ates/Head of Departments and as Local Offices at the Central offices of the Ministry.
57. A great deal of experience has been gained through these studies, besides it will be useful to take this experience into
consideration for the future planning. Therefore, both the creditor and the borrower will search ways to prevent from wasting
time and source in the projects to be implemented in the future by aiming to get maximum profit and by taking negative and
positive aspects gained from the project into consideration e.g. the MONE has been trying to establish of Decision Support
System related to the MIS, and to use the ILSIS system effectively by using the Basic Education Program's sources, and the
MONE has been trying to allocate the necessary fund from the Basic Education Program in order to make an agreement with
Tuirk-Telekom which allows to use the TT-Net line for ILSIS.
58. Project Manageme t: National Education Development Project has been realized following a-nine-year implementation
project done by the project implementation team and project directorate formed by the Project Coordination Unit established
with the approval of the Ministry; but several problems have been experienced during the implementation of the projects and
establishing a coordination. Because of these problems, it seems necessary to establish of a legal Project Implementation unit,
to account the government supported budgets under this unit, to identify the Terms of Reference of this unit as well as the
staff working within this unit legally and to include the responsibilities of the other units under the project in details for the
projects to be implemented with the loans from the World Bank. Besides the establishment of a project executive council
formed by 8 (eight) people who will observe the project implementations and review them by meeting at least once a week
will make these implementations more productive. Moreover, it is also important for the unit responsible for the project im-
plementations to have the authority on the budget that the project activities envisage. It will be possible to reach an effective
and productive conclusion with the project management and coordination for which these provided.
59. Since NEDP foresees some institutional changes (establishment of new unit, making some laws etc.) and as these institu-
tional changes are important factors to achieve the aims of the project, it will be harder because of bureaucratic difficulties to
reach the project aims. These difficulties have been experienced in practice by both the units of the Ministry which are within
the context of the project and by also the Projects Coordination Unit which coordinates the projects among the related units.
60. Technical Consultancv Services: It has been envisaged that the studies realized by the consultants to be employed in the
fields determined as a need for the sectoral development should be prepared with more details under the project. It is neces-
sary to define the Ministry officials to be employed as counterparts according to the Terms of Reference to be prepared.
These staff should be prepared through in-service training and should not be put in any other charges during their mission if
necessary. This condition is important if the Ministry should get the expected results from the project. It will increase the
productivity if well-educated staff that will able to work continuously are recruited in the units benefiting from native and
foreign experts within the scope of the Technical Consultancy.
61. Overseas Fellowship Training: As the cost of abroad training of fellows is too expensive, the objective of this training
should be determined more carefully in SAR. Choosing the staff to be trained is also important. Staff who will apply for
planned activities within the related units should be sent for overseas training. Especially with the insufficient language
knowledge, the training to be obtained abroad will not be good enough. For the overseas training of the staff, good quality
and high level courses should be organized and following these courses a limit should be decided. Those who can pass this
limit should be sent abroad for training and if needed, those who cannot pass should be trained by receiving services from the
universities. By doing this, sources of the country would not be wasted. For this reason, it is very important to specify the
qualities that the staff should have and the scope of the overseas training in parallel to the project objectives. To detail these
in the project will make the fellowship training more productive.
62. Procurement Activities: In order to reach the objectives defined in the project, seven (7) international competitive bid
procedures have been realized under NEDP. When equipment tenders of the Film Radio and Television Education Center that
have been done three times are taken into consideration, the number of ICBs realized under NEDP becomes nine (9). Techni-
cal Consultancy Tenders are not included in this number. In the scope of the project, Technical Consultancy Contracts, except
for the individual consultancy contracts, have been signed between the Ohio State University, Bilkent University and Anadolu
University. Furthermore, in order to equip ministry offices under the project a lot of equipment has been purchased through
national bidding or direct purchase. Using technology in general education has been put on the agenda extensively for the first
time with the NEDP. Almost all the equipment purchased under the NEDP has been used in project schools and ministry units
under the project in accordance with the objectives of the project.
11



63. On the other hand, for the project implemented after the Loan Agreements, the Borrower has to fulfill the commitments
arousing from the regulations and laws in his own country, the Borrower also has to complete all the procedures of the credi-
tor in purchasing goods and services. Because of these, at least six months of time is wasted when doing each procurement
for the project implementations. To remove this condition will accelerate project implementations and will prevent source and
time from being wasted.
12



Appendix: C
YOK IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRE-SERVICE TEACHER EDUCATION COMPONENT
Loan No. 3192-TU
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
1     The project development objective was to contribute to the improvement of pre-
service teacher education at primary and secondary levels. It did this by (a) upgrading the
facilities of all faculties of education, (b) curriculum development and materials production in
the teaching of the major school curriculum areas, as well as development work on student-
teacher experience in schools, (c) the provision of long-term fellowships for those beginning a
career in teacher education and short-term fellowships for those in mid-career and
management, (d) setting up a system of faculty-school partnerships to assist student-teacher
work in schools, (e) developing and agreeing standards in teacher education and setting up an
accreditation system. The last two objectives were those of the extensions.
Implementation Experience and Results
2     It is YOK's opinion that this has been one of the more successful World Bank
projects. During the life of the project, there was general consensus that it was making good
progress, and qualitatively as well as quantitatively fulfilling its objectives in a well-planned
and timely manner. The report, while discussing issues and areas of concern nevertheless
presents project accomplishments in a positive light. Evidence for this opinion is summarized
in the report. It may also be found in World Bank Aide- Memoires, in the Quarterly Reports
and the Evaluation files, and in other reports and communications.
3     There were considerable delays in the start of implementation. The World Bank
identification missions in 1988 were followed by preparation and pre-appraisal missions in
1989. The Staff Appraisal Report and the Loan Agreement are dated April and May 1990.
Project implementation did not then proceed as planned. It was delayed until December 1994
because of the cancellation of the Technical Assistance (TA) bidding process in April 1992,
followed by delays of nearly one and a half years as amendments to the TA contract were
negotiated at the request of the Ministry of Finance. The TA contract was signed on October
3, 1994.
4     Following the establishment of the TA office on December 1, 1994, and the start of
the work of the expatriate and national consultants and teams, implementation of the
curriculum  objective (b above) proceeded smoothly.  Project books were published
embodying the new approach, and four series of training workshops were sequenced with
pilot activities and revision of materials.
5     The fellowship component was faced with problems of timing, and the location and
language training of suitable fellows, but 42% of the masters quota and 84% of the doctoral
quota were achieved. To meet developing project needs, fellowship funds were then
redirected to the provision of 222 short-term fellowships, itself a major factor in
sustainability. The short-term fellowships were for six groups of people: in 1997, 88 deans
and department heads, then 45 rectors and YOK members had short study tours, and 51



people had a 10-week training. In 1998, there was a 4-week training for the Partnership
Working Party and a study visit on accreditation for the National Committee. In 1999, the
Accreditation Working Party had a 10-day study visit.
6      Procurement activity was slow in starting, due to the lack of a procurement specialist
within the PCU for the first ten months of the project. However, progress, albeit slow, was
made during these early months in planning and drawing up lists of equipment. An expatriate
consultant was employed to assist with the essential steps in procurement in its mniddle stages.
Procurement was completed by the end of the project.
7      All these three project cornponents were widened early in the project from the
original planned seventeen project faculties of education, to embrace all 34 faculties. Eight
new faculties of education were then included in 1997-98. They received some equipment,
and other project benefits.
8      The two major extension objectives of faculty-school partnerships, and teacher
education standards and accreditation were achieved in full. A national system of faculty-
school partnerships was set up after nation-wide training courses in 38 faculties in 1998, run
by the Partnership Working Party. T7hey had previously piloted the course, and completed a
book giving full guidelines for setting up partnerships. The standards and accreditation work
formed the subject of an international and national conference. The proposed approach to
accreditation was successfully piloted in six faculties in February 1999, and a comprehensive
book on standards and accreditation published as the basic reference for future accreditation
activity.
9      The third extension work of' a distance-learning certificate program in computing,
organized and partly held at Middle East Technical university, was also successfully
accomplished.
10     One of the major factors affecting the project was the fact that it ran parallel with a
major national change in teacher education. In 1996, YOK constructed and established a new
system of teacher education, which tDok effect from the start of the 1998-99 academic year.
The restructuring successfully incorporated the project's ideas, publications and existing
fellowships. The terms of reference of the project's new short-term fellowships included the
needs of the national developments. A second factor in the success of the extension work,
particularly in faculty-school partnerships, was the increasing cooperation between YOK and
the Ministry of National Education (MONE).
11     Difficulties encountered in the implementation of the curriculum work included the
lack of counterpart Turkish colleagues to work with the foreign consultants. A further
problem in a project where books have to be translated was language. This was also a factor
inhibiting the full understanding of some of the participants of the short study visits. The
final major factor considered in the text is the kind of participation PCU members in full-time
jobs are available to give, and the need therefore for effective TA management.
Sustainability
12     The project is well-placed wilh regard to sustainability. The capacity of the faculties
of education has been significantly increased. This has occurred both through improvements
in facilities and equipment, and thrcugh institutional strengthening by fellowships, course
content and training. The short-term fellowships were designed with sustainability in mind,
and the masters/doctoral fellows will return to be distributed across almost all faculties,
offering new and up-to-date ideas to merge with the new developments in teacher education
here.



13    Further, over 3,600 academic staff from all faculties cooperated in the curriculum
development and partnership work, and worked with the project. Many of them wish to
continue the work after the end of the project, and are committed to the developments. The
accreditation studies of 1999 involved all deans and senior colleagues, plus 366 people from
all faculties in the dissemination courses, and the training of 23 assessors. This work will
continue as an accreditation system is set up.
14    Finally, and perhaps most importantly, project implementation has gone hand-in-hand
with national developments. These changes are now established, and development will
continue under YOK, thus ensuring the continuity of the work done under the project.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
15    The Project Director became a member of YOK Executive in May 1998, and has
overall responsibility for education. In addition, YOK has set up a National Committee for
Teacher Education. The future work in teacher education will be led by them, and YOK has
comnnitted itself to sustain and expand the achievements of its project. YOK will also
continue its co-operation with the Ministry of National Education.  The Ministry
representation on the National Conmmittee has been increased from one to four key people in
the Ministry.
16    The principal lessons learned during project implementation have been that project
resources combined with major developments, and with YOK/MONE cooperation, lead to
success. Further, that building on a project's achievements, as was done in the project
extension work of faculty-school partnerships and standards and accreditation, enables nation-
wide contacts to be maintained, participants of short-term fellowships to be utilized, and
mounting motivation and comrnitment to be hamessed to further progress.






MAP SECTION






lBRD 315501
'B-UtGARIA(UNT   ociisopsies4
S e a       2                                                             tlesostuoloso.Maocsadstsos                               '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GEORGIA---
>o  'F   ~~  eK$kkMt  B la c k                                                                   U          r                                                                   Hssss bnocsianychsscps(additioIs    e    a
GREECE  ) ~~~~~~~~i'  (.I                                                     ZosAoc5             7                                                     0                                               os:l5pcicncncy$ycN
1    r4QosamcL B6                                                                                             h-4~              ,79A2s '. APOascsm
/   -<>         !qK~~1a6IA     r                           -                                                                         <i<              '~~       'I          57b>
GREECEa~                                                                  -~~                               N ,yN'in                                                                                                                                              ,iL' 
(O4ucocaroGemini    '~~f    li.8tT~  %0kAc~a                                                                        /t-ua-'4'    Odo                            TrakiOo
Mau~~~  ~   ~ ~   2U7J1/31  iCaca        ~           ~           ~           ~           ~          ~          '-xffl.                          lt/h-.               -~~~~~~                      /           I            Joule '>~~~~AT-b-
&k   ~~  ~ ~ janSor'   1Z  7--Ae,nsyat    >   -~~~~~~~            '~~                   ~                                            j      ~~R/
Tk,.g, yuO9~ 5-                                                                                                        I- kOran
C>            ,lH   i2           ~         J7Y               0fAsponri  ~              ~                                                                                    -      ~     I                            JuiARMNI
,%A~~ la,'                              K-i>                ~     F477
(64  j A r <uA   77-                                              -,-                        ~oso    4'*Tkos                                                                         y&Gmcnty..
Mui,yne-i                       B4~~cku-2 130 1                                                                              T                                    ~I
7     :  K-                   214   r   pi~;i"                         27E034 ,   4~Lp~-30                                                        ii                 Cf -.~,                                                      j koc                              "\ '!
12 7 1      ~N                            C-4                                         ,f                                                                       '                                                                                           \BAIJAN
1K                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
psehir   (   '                 L            0        /                                                            k,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISLAMIC
-                                   /             cs % ia-Qjy)            \*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~#l .....                                         REP.   O F
~~.  t~~~~i  N  ,  K~~~~~~~A  '>  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       '-1                                                                 .4                                                  ,-,           ,          , ~~~~~~~~~~IRAN
240                    J-                                                               S)~~~~~~~~  /kss  ~m                                              --    2 1                                                                    1      ~     j
02  '~~~~~~~~~ 121  ~~~~~~~~~~   )  I?                                     Ti                                            C'>             fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17 1M oHty '                        '            \'
MOXI  G61    ~      'Iu 34                                               OX>@h Nigd.                                                                                                           u 
U                                                      2         K--                         I                                 G.--.i-:st
OuT   l                                  AI1y /I057$                                                                                                   RY A0 irii                                                           Xm       /.
4,1                                                                                           _vJ                                                        T   U     R   K   E Y~~~~~O'    iT 
2      2 
-Jut        Sea                                                      -,                    5 ]                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATON' [MONO):
Mediterranean  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I                                        SYRIAN                          U~~~~~~~~~  208 CURRICULUM LABORATORY SCHOOLS                 PRVNECITL'
S I   ARAB  REP.                        0     232 COMPUTER LABORATORY SCHOOLS                                                            35ATOALCPIA
05'-,>   -                                 ,               I               .                                                                                                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  RIVERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RVR
f                                                                                                                        ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A EDUCATION RESOURCE CENTERS
Thssspaasd-cebyt$s*RqSsisvs,toSThWaI RaisE                                                             YPRU          K                                                 N--.d----t  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES"
th.l'c4sris~cdoca,dsomhiasionsns4ocy-tIuseisRqpPioHonshos                                                                                         Numbsrs ad jocaCOtoCCOUNCIL                 HIRHHIGERUECUCATN'N (YOK)
cosisis sop sic coticcp& ontls.pastoEThswosldOackGroapm an~~~~~~-  ~~   T90    ~o    ~c  CYPRUS               U                   symomis educate the -m                                                                -  INTERNATIONALATIOALOBNUNDARIE
io4nsctc0ItssspItatpnls~Pscitcsasosync4sssmstn             KLMETnERS                              ~                                                               quatity at -hc 1ocoto.,         fACULTIES OF EDUCATION
05'                                 s~~~~~~~~he p-oinc capitols,5
1010 2000



