Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8328-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APRIL 3, 1990
Country Department I
Population and Human Resources Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
Its           not         be



REPUBLIC OF TUXRBYR
Currencl Equivalents
Turkish Lira (TL) 1,000 - US$ 0.43
US$1.00 - TL 2,300 (November 1989)
Principal Acronyms Used
BOE         Board of Education
CRPC        Council for Research, Planning, and Coordination
ERC         Education Resource Center
ERDC        Education Research and Development Center
FRTVC       Film, Radio and Television Center
HCTEE       Higher Council for Teacher Education and
Employment
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
MM          Man-months
MIS         Management Information System
NEDP        National Education Development Program
HOE         Ministry of National Education
OECD        Organization of Economic Cooperation and
Development
PTA         Parent-Teachers Association
PTC         Primary Teachers' College
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PTESC       Primary Teacher Education Steering
Committee
SPO         State Planning Organization
STESC       Secondary Teacher Education Steering
Committee
TEC         Testing and Evaluation Center
TDP         Trade Development Program
YoK         Council of Higher Education
Fiscal Year                                              mv
January i - December 31



FOR OFFCAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT'
Table of Contents
Basic Data
Loan and Proieot Summary
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   I
A.   Introductior    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
B. The Education System .... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    2
Primary and Secondary Education . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Education Administrfttion and Management. . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Training of Education Personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Education Finance ................... .    6
C. Sectoral lssues  ...................                          .    8
D. Government Plans and Policies for Education Development  . . . .  11
E. Bank Strategy for Educational Development  . . . . . . . . . . .  13
1I.  THE PROJECT   ..........................   15
A. Project Origin ........................  .   15
B. Project Objectives   .............  .....  ...                    .   15
C. Project Description  .............  .....  ...                    .   15
D. Detailed Features of the Project . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . 15
Improving Quality of Primary and Secondary Education . . . . . 15
Improving Quality and Relevance of Teacher Education . . . . . 21
Improving Management Skills and Practices. . . . . . . . . . . 25
1II. PROGRAM COSTS. FINANCING. MaNAGEMENT AND
IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2 8
A. Program Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
B. Project Financing  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   31
C. Project Management and Implementation  ... .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   32
D. Project Procurement Arrangements ................ . 35
E. Project Supervision and Evaluation ............... . 38
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS  . ....  .         .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  38
A. Benefits ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   38
B. Risks  ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   39
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .  . .. . .. . .. .  39
'This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Turkey in October and Niovember of 1989. The mission comprised Messrs.
L. Briggs (Sr. Education Specialist and Mission Leader), G. Za'rour (Sr.
General Educator), J. Renner (Management Specialist/Cons.), A. Read (Editorial
and Distribution Specialist), and A. Buchan (Publications Specialist/Cons.).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance.
|of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



1.   Structure of the Education System. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
2.   Education Summary Data:  Public and Private. . . . . . . . . . 42
3.   Ministry of Education:  Organizational Structure . . . . . . . 43
4.   Primary Teacher Training Enrollments and Graduates . . . . . . 44
5.   Faculties of Education Enrollments and Graduates . . . . . . . 45
6.   Trends in Public Education Expenditures. . . . . . . . . . . . 46
7.   Education Research and Development Center. . . . . . . . . . . 48
8.   Criteria for Selection of Laboratory Schools . . . . . . . . . 49
9.   Primary and Secondary Teacher Education Steering Committees. . 50
10.   Guidelines for Selection of Faculties of Education . . . . . . 51
11.   Implementation Schedule and Action Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . 54
12.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
13.   Project Organizational Structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
14.   Technical Assistance Program .....   . .........  .   .  57
15.   Disbursements by Source of Funding and Semester. . . . . . . . 60
16.   Bibliography   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   61
MAP: Location of Project Institutions (IBRD. No. 22035)
I



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEVELOOMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Basic Data
(1989)
Country Data
Per-Capita GNP (1987)                                                US$1,240
Total Population (1989)                                              54 million
Population Growth Rate                                               2.2% p.a.
Total Labor Force (1987)                                             18.8 million
Literacy Rate (% of Adults)                                          70%
School Enrollment and Expenditure Data (1988)
Enrollments
Level and                           Total         Enrollment as    Female as
Age-Groups                      Enrollments  X of Aee-Groups  % of total
Primary (grades 1-5, ages 7-11)         7 million         97                47
Middle (grades 6-8, ages 12-14)         2 million          56               35
Secondary (grades 9-11, ages 15-17) 1.7 million            33               36
Higher (grade 12+, ages 18+)          0.5 million           8               33
VA
Public Expenditure on Education (1988)
Central government expenditure on education as percent
of total government expenditures                                      12.2
Central government expenditure on education as percent
of GNP                                                                 2.6
Central government capital expenditure on education as
percent of total government capital expenditures                        5.9
Central government recurrent expenditures on education
as percent of total government recurrent expenditures                  7.2
A



REPUBLIC OF TURIKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEBVLOPHENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Republic of Turkey
Anount:      US$90.2 million
Terms:      Seventeen Years, including a five-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:      The proposed project supports the Government's efforts to
improve student learning and achievement throughout the
country by focusing on policy and operational measures for
improving the quality of primary and secondary education,
the quality and relevance of teacher education, and t'e
effectiveness of management and administration as follows:
(a) Quality of Primarv and Secondary Education would be
improved by: establishing a framework for reviewing, up-
grading, and up-dating curricula, instructional materials,
and evaluation procedures on a continuing basis; following
through on the first stages of revising and up-dating
national curricula and textbooks; strengthening technical
capabilities for instructional materials design and
development; improving the system for textbook and materials
distribution; and strengthening the MOE's testing and
evaluation capabilities; (b) Oualitv and Relevance of
Teacher Education would be improved by: revising and up-
grading pre-service teacher training curricula, textbooks,
and instructional materials in the university Faculties of
Education; establishing a system for assessing development
needs of in-service teachers and other educational
personnel; and following through with appropriate training
programs; and (c) Effectiveness of Management and
Administration in the Ministry of Education would be
improved by: establishing a mechanism for strengthening
internal communications within the MOE; initiating an MOE
management assessment and development program; consolidating
administrative units for increased management efficiencies;
expanding and improving the MOE management information
system (MIS); moving selected aspects of basic planning and
decision making to the provincial education directorates;
providing training for school administrators; strengthening
the MOE National Center for Research anc Development in Vo-
Tech Education; and up-grading key staff of the MOE
Inspectorate.
In the above context, the proposed project would include a
number of policy initiatives for strengthening the education
system, plus minor renovation, furnishing, and equipping of
200 curriculum laboratory schools for field testing the



ii
curriculum and materials to be developed and 53 experimental
schools for the pilot computer education program (25 of the
latter are included in the curriculum schools); construction
and renovation of four education resource centers to assist
in the in-service training effort; and equipment for up-
dating and expanding the management information system. The
project would also include minor renovations and equipping
of 25 primary teacher training colleges and 17 university
Faculties of Education, along with technical assistance to
support the total development effort.
Benefits
and Risks:        Benefits. The proposed project would be the first step in
establishing appropriate standards of quality in the
education sector to raise the level of human resources as
required for achievement of its national development
objectives. It would be a major undertaking in institution
building and for promoting quality education to enable the
country to compete in the World Market. And finally, it
would improve and strengthen education services, i.e.,
extend the school year by about 14%, extend basic education
from 5 to 8 years, require primary teachers to be trained at
the university level, promote teacher participation in
refresher and up-date training, and implement measures to
improve cost effectiveness in the education system,
including a shift of textbook printing to the private
sector, and the gradual delegation of more planning and
decision making authority to the provincial levels.
Risks. There is the risk of budget allocations not keeping
pace with the proposed new emphasis on high quality
education. However, the education sector has received an
increase in total budget allocations during each of the past
three years, the Treasury has indicated that this is a high
priority investment project for the Government, and the
recurrent costs of the proposed operation are relatively
low, so this risk is considered to be minimal. There is a
risk that political pressures may make it difficult to Laks
appropriate measures for bringing about operational and
financial efficiencies in the sector, i.e., declaring
teaching positions in some schools redundant where
appropriate, re-deployment of teachers and administrators
from areas of excess personnel to locations/schools where
shortages exist, etc. However, present procedures already
recognize the need to provide special incentives to
educational personnel to induce them to work in less
attractive areas of the country, and hence the risk of
political pressure is considered minimal.



iii
Estimated Project Costs A/
Local Foreign Total
-US$ million-------
Improving the Quality of Education                 26.7    30.3    57.0
(Curriculum, Textbook, and Materials
Development and Evaluation)
Improving the Quality of Teacher Education         38.8    25.0    63.8
(Up-grading of Pre-service and
In-service Teacher Education)
Improving Management Skills and Practices           1.5    14.5    16.0
(Management Assessment and Development
and Administrator Training)
Base Cost                                        67.0    69.8   136.8
Physical Contingencies                              6.7      7.0    13.7
Price Contingencies                                13.3    13.4    26.7
Total Project Costs                              87.0    90.2   177.2
a/ Inclusive of taxes and duties which are negligible
Financdina Plan:
IBRD                                                 0.0    90.2    90.2
Government                                          87.0      0.0    87.0
Total                                            87.0    90.2   177.2
Estimated Disbursement
IBRD FY
91      92       93      94       2f     29       2E
-------------------- US$ million --      -----
Annual             4.6      24.8    28.0    21.6      9.4      1.2     0.7
Cumulative         4.6     29.4    57.4    79.0    88.4    89.5    90.2
Economic Rate of Return:                       Not Applicable



REPUBLIC OF _TRKEY
.2XQJN;L  EDUCATION DRVE 0PN5N! PROJ7ECT
T. SECTORAL BACGROUN0D
A. Introduction
1.01        The Republic of Turkey is a medium to large country with a
moderate base of natural resources, a 1989 p-pulation of about 54 million
people (53% urban), and a population growth rate of about 2.2% p.a. The
Government is in the process of up-grading e.nd strengthening the Country's
education system consistent with development efforts in other sectors. The
ultimate goal is to have an education system capable of producing young men
and women with the broad range of knowledge and skills required to meet its
national development objectives. During recent years, particularly within the
past two decades, increased emphasis has been placed on establishing a modern
education system to include universal primary education, increased access to
secondary education, a broader provision of university programs, a teacher
training system, and a wide range of vocational and technical education
programs to meet the manpower needs of the economy. As a result, by 1989, the
national adult literacy rate had reached an estimated 70% (49% of whom are
female), enrollment in primary education was virtually universal (estimated
97%), and middle and secondary schools were expanding at a steady pace (the
beginning of school year 1988/89 saw the opening of 300 new schools -- an
addition of about 150,000 new student places). However, while improve-ents
within the sector as a whole are substa.atial, they are less than adequate to
meet the Country's overall development needs, and hence quality of education
has suffered somewhat.
1.02        Full realization of the country's long-term economic development
goals will depend in great measure on a well-educated, highly trained human
resource base to conceptualize, organize, plan, and execute the various
design, coordination, and management functions required in the development
process. Implicit in this spectrum of activities is the need for a highly
diversified workforce ranging from semi-skilled to the highest level of
professional expertise. The common element for these levels of m..npower
development is the need for a solid foundation in general education; i.e.,
social, numeracy, and literacy skills; critical thinking, analytical, and
problem solving abilities; capacity for creative and productive application of
information; and an understanding of the environment and its impact on
society. Thus, a sound school system, with a strong, high quality general
education core, is fundamental to the overall development process. The
Government therefore plans to expand its on-going education development
program, which durlng the last 4-5 years concentrated primarily on school
construction and development of vocational education, to include improvements
in quality of general education and overall management of the system. These
new elements of thte development program, i.e., education quality and
management enhancement, would be accomplished through a proposed National
Education Development Project (NEDP) for which World Bank financing has been



- 2 -
requested. The proposed prcject has been declared a high priority on the
country's national development agenda.
1.03        A few selected characteristics of the country are worth noting, as
they have direct implications for the proposed education project.' The labor
market, though gradually diversifying, continues to be dominated by the
agriculture sector (56X of the employed la)-or force), with industry and
services following at about 14% and 29%, respectively. Agriculture's share of
the GNP i:i about 17%, with industry and services contributing about 36% and
47%, resp(ctively. The Government has taken measures to rejuvenate the
private sector by introducing new technology into manufacturing and commerce,
developing small scale industries for increased exports, and increasing
productivity of the labor force. While there has been growth in output from
certain sectors during recent years, technological innovation and development
in each has been limited by the relatively low level of education among the
workforce; i.e., with a 56% enrollment rate for the middle school age-group ifn
1987 and a 68% pass/completion rate, less than 38% of today's work force
entrants have as much as an eighth grade education. Additionally, with a 33%
enrollment of the secondary school age-group (for general and vocational
schools combined) and a 71% pass/completion rate, less than 23% of the current
labor market entrants have completed secondary education, and only about 9% of
the age-group are currently going on for higher education.
B. The Education System
Primary and Se-ondary Education
1.04        The Country's pre-tertiary public education system (both general
and vocational education) is administered by the Ministry of Education (MOE).
Vocational education is being developed under other sources of funding,
including- Bank financing (Loans 2399-, 2536-, 2776-, and 2922-TU) and, except
for as  - mince to the National Center for Research and Development in Vo-Tech
Educati-:.. (para. 2.39), is therefore not addressed under the proposed project.
The system's general education component comprises schools at the pre-school,
primary (grades 1-5), middle (grades 6-8), and secondary (grades 9-11) levels
(Annex 1). The Government is exterding basic education from 5 to 8 years,
thereby combining all primary and middle school education into a unified basic
education system (Crades 1-8). School attendance is already compulsory
through basic education (Grade 8), but this is not presently enforceable due
to the shortage of classrooms. In 1988-89, the general education system
included some 54,000 primary and pre-schools with almost seven million
students and 227,000 teachers; about 5,700 middle schools with two million
students and 42,000 teachers; And 1,450 general secondary schools with about
700,000 students and almost 57,000 teachers (Annex 2).
1.05          General secondary education is provided through a variety of
school types, including (in 1988-89): (a) 1,300 general secondary schools with
almost 650,000 students; (b) 98 Anatolia Schools (combined middle and general.
secondary schools in which mathematics and science are taught in a foreign
'The latest economic information is contained in the Country Brief of
1990.



language - - English, French, or German) with over 45,000 students; (c) seven
Science Secondary Schools for grades 9-11 (some with limited boarding
facilities to accommodate talented students from outside the immediate
vicinity) providing emphasis on matheTnatics and scie-nces for about 1,600
highly selected students expecting to pursue university studies and eventually
careers in this area; (d) 28 teachers' high schools (formerly primary teacher
t.raining "normal schools" but now serving as general secondary schools
providing "pre-teacher-education" elective courses for some lA.,OQ0 students
wishing to explore teaching careers); ar.: (e) 10 evening schools with about
3,000 students and 90 teachers. The private schools accounted in 1987-88 for
a relatively small portion of the total formal enrollment: pre-primary 5%,
primary 1%, middle school 3%, and secondary 41. However, private "prep"
schools at the secondary level are just now emerging and rapidly gaining in
popularity, mainly in urban areas.
1.06        The Science and Anatolia Schools, while being part of the regular
public school system, operate under somewhat different conditions from the
other schools. They accept, through highly competitive entrance examinations,
only the highest achieving students; special dispensation is given for keeping
class sizes small (official policy calls for a student-teacher ratio of 20:1
in these schools); and, due to the prestige of teaching in these schools, they
attract and retain teachers who are among the country's finest. The Anatolia
sC:ioos accept students upon completion of grade 5 and provide an interim year
c,f intensive training in the foreign language used by the respective school,
followed by the middle school component (grade 6-8) of the curriculum, and
ultimate progression to the secondary level. The Science Schools provide only
secondary education (grades 9-11). Students who complete the Anatolia middle
school grades may, upon passing the appropriate examination, transfer to one
of the Science Secondary Schools if they desire and are accepted.  Graduates
of the general middle schools also have the right, though less probability, to
enter at the upper secondary level of the Anatolia Schools as well as the
Science schools.  T'he Science and Anatolia Schools combined accommodate about
7% of the total general education enrollment at the secondary level.
1.07        Gross enrollment rates for 1988-1989 (based on known enrollments
and approximate age-group population) were: primary - 971 of the age-group;
middle school - 56%; and secondary (general and vocational combined) - 33%.
Female enrollment averages 43X of the total for the system as a whole (47%,
35%, and 36%, respectively, of primary, middle, and secondary school
enrollments). The heavy demand for education at all levels in the larger
urban areas, such as Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir, and Bursa, is considerably
greater than available capacity, resulting in many classes with as many as 60-
80 students, even for schools operating with two four-hour shifts per day.
This is not the case in some of the more remote areas of the country where
class size is usually smaller. Schools with high enrollments generally
operate in a single grade teaching mode, whereas those with fewer students
normally use multi-grade teaching. Many rural schools have been closed
recently due to decreasing enrollments as families move to more populous and
economically active areas looking for higher paying jobs and better living
conditions.



-4-
Education Administration and Wanagement
1.08        Admh pistration of Publie Educatoln in Turkey is centralized under
the MOE, with each of the 71 provinces maintaining an Education Directorate
which reports, officially, through the Provincial Governor to the central
Ministry. Upper echelons of management in the MOE include, in addition to the
Minister, an Under-Secretary of State, as operational manager of the system,
and five Assistant Under-Secretaries responsible for t±e areas of general
education, vocational education, personnel, education administration and
finance, and youth activities (Annex 3). Some Ministry groups, such as the
Council for Research, Planning, and Coordination (CRPC), report directly to
the Undersecretary. The Board of Educat.on (BOE) is a semi-autonomous agency
within the MOE reporting directly to the Minister and, while assigned some
operational functions, its major responsibility deals with MOE policy
formulation and the review and oversibht of most other operational activities
within the Ministry. The MOE central Directorate of School Inspection is
responsible for periodic review of the public secondary schools -- their
ir.structional programs, equipment, materials, libraries, teacher performance,
management, school maintenance, etc., and for making recommendations as
appropriate for improvements. Review of the pre-school, primary and middle
school operation is a responsibility of Provincial Directorates to be
accomplished through their own staffs of school inspectors. The central
directorates of primary, secondary, and vocational education are responsible
for following up on the Inspectorate reports and for reviews and
recommendations relative to policy, planning and funding for their respective
school levels and types of education. The Provincial Director of Education
serves primarily as a facilitator to implement in his/her province the various
policy decisions taken at the central Ministry level. The individuals in
these positions have not traditionally been involved in the planning and
decision-making process, though this is changing (para. 1.30).
Trainina of Education Personnel
1.09        Pre-service teacher education is a responsibility of the
university Faculties of Education, operating under authority of the Council of
Higher Education (Y6K). Training of primary teachers is provided by 25
primary teachers' colleges (PTCs) each of which is an integral part of a
university, operating as a department or school within the institution's
Faculty of Education. Primary teacher certification requirements are being
extended in the 1989-90 school year, as part of the national education reform
program, from two years of post-secondary training to completion of a four-
year teacher training curriculum. This change is being made as a means of
broadening the teachers' knowledge, enhancing their teaching skills, and thus
helping to improve the quality of instruction in primary .ducation. The
change is consistent with the Government's desire for an education system
which approximates the education norms of European countries. The higher
teaching credential (4-year degree) will result in primary teacher salaries
being adjusted, upon their completion of the higher degree requirement, to the
secondary teacher salary range. In response to this change, academic programs
of these colleges are being transformed, beginning with school year 1989-90,
inco 4-year curricula. The PTCP will continue as administrative and
professional units of their respective university Faculties of Education and
graduates of the new four-year programs will be awarded university B.A.



degrees in education, along with graduates from other departments of the
Faculty.
1.10        As a result of extending the primary teacher training curriculum,
there will be no graduates from the progra,>s in 1991 and 1992. The Government
will use this opportunity to re-assign and balance the loads of existing
teachers. Remaining vacancies during these two years will be filled from the
pool of teacher education graduates who have already passed the teacher
employment examination but are not currently in the system (about 20,000). In
1987-88, the PTCs enrolled a total of some 16,000 students (of which 41% were
female) and graduated 6,500 (Annex 4), which is about 30X less than the
anticipated need (based on attrition and population growth). The shortfall in
new teacher output will continue over the next two or three years; however,
measures are currently being taken, with a moderate dbgree of success, to
increase enrollments in teacher education -- the number has been increasing by
about 5 per year. Also, a special scholarship/stipend program, with high
scholastic requirements, is being initiated by the Government in school year
1989-90, as part of the education reform, to attract more (initially 4,000 per
year) and better students into teaching. As there is a near 100%
participation rate for the primary school age-group, no major school expansion
will be necessary at this level. Thur considering the potential for re-
deployment of teachers with less than Lull-time teaching loads (para. 1.26),
the additional training capacity available in the colleges, and the current
excess of trained teachers, the teacher supply problem is, at this point,
manageable.  Therefore, ihe principal need at this level of teacher training
is for increasing enrollments and focusing on quality enhancement rather than
for program expansion.
1.11        Training of teachers and other education personnel for middle and
general secondary schools is provided by the nation's 17 Faculties of
Education. Certification requirements for middle and secondary school
teachers were up graded ixN 1984 to completton of a four-year university BA
degree program in teacher education, or in a recognized teaching subject area
with the addition of specified professional education coursework. The four-
year teacher training and certification program may take one of three possible
forms: (a) regular enrollment in a university Faculty of Education BA Degree
program combining subject specialty and pedagogy in the same faculty; (b)
enrollment in a departmental degree program of another Faculty in the
university; e.g., physics, history, French, etc. with concurrent enrollment in
the required teacher certification courses of the institution's Faculty of
Education; or (c) completion of a four-year degree program in a recognized
teaching subject area; e.g., mathematics, chemistry, geography, etc. of a non-
education faculty, with subsequent enrollment after graduation in the required
teacher certification courses, usually requiring one additional academic year.
All applicants for teaching positions must satisfactorily pass a teacher
certification examination required and administered by the MOE.
1.12        The middle and secondary school teacher training programs enrolled
in 1987-88 about 34,000 students (Annex 5), of which 47Z were female, and
graduated just under 6,500. The number of graduati..s is about equal to the
current annual incremental need for replacements due to attrition and
classroom expansions. Growing enrollments among the middle- and secondary-
school age group will cause a continuing increase in the demand for teachers



at this level; however, most of the university Faculties of Education have
ample capacity for expanding enrollments as the need arises. Thus the major
emphasis for investment in teacher education at this level also should be on
quality improvement. To assist with policy advisement in this regard, YOK and
the MOE jointly created, in late 1988, the Higher Council for Teacher
Education and Employment (HCTEE). The HCTEE is a formally appointed
interagency group/committee with representation from tIOE, Y6K, State Planning
Organization (SPO), the university Faculties of Education, and others
interested in the quality of teacher education. The group, which began to
function only in mid-1989, has responsibility for reviewing policies,
procedures, and programs for teacher education and making recommendations
jointly to both YoK and MOE for ensuring a sufficient supply of properly
qualified teachers for the school system.
1.13        In-service teacher training is a formally assigned function of the
MOE, though the university Faculties of Education may, and do, provide some
courses of an in-service nature, either independently or under contract with
the MOE (usually the latter). In-service training is seen by the MOE as being
crucial to improving quality of education and has high priority in the
education reform program. The MOE in-service training function includes
responsibility for upgrading the qualifications of teachers, administrators,
and other education personnel (e.g., counselors and librarians) through
programs which are responsive and relevant to the changing needs of the system
and its staff.
1.14        Current in-service training activities being implemented by or for
the MOE include: (a) a program to enable secondary teachers with three year
training to obtain the recently required (1984) fourth year of trrining
through part-time university studies; (b) a televised distance education
program, initiated in 1985 under MOE contract with Anadolu University, for
upgrading the qualifications, over a four-year period, of approximately
140,000 primary school teachers; (c) a short-term residential program of
courses offered to secondary school teachers during the summer vacation period
(about 31,000 teachers and administrators participated during the summer of
1989 at various sites throughout the country); (d) a summer program for
primary school teachers arranged through the provincial directorates; (e) a
special training program for teachers of English; (f) a small scholarship
program to enable a limited number of secondary teachers to obtain additional
leadership skills and teaching qualifications (usually non-degree) from local
or overseas universities (about 250 teachers received fellowships for study
abroad during the past five years, ranging from six to eighteen months each);
and (g) a special training program of information dissemination and skills
upgrading each summer for about 2,000 administrators from provincial education
directorates and local schools.
Education Finance
1.15        Education is financed primarily by the public sector, with the
private sector making its greatest, though limited, enntribution in pre-
schooling (4% of the pre-primary schools were private in 1987-88, serving 5%
of the pre-primary school enrollment) and in secondary education (8% of
secondary schools were private during the same year, serving 4% of the total
secondary school enrollment). The education share of public funds has



decreased consistently, in real terms, for more than a decade (with only a
slight up-turn in 1987/88) during a period in which there has been
considerable growth and expansion of enrollment in the system as a 'hole
(Annex 6).
1.16        Turkey lags other countries with a comparable income level by a
substantial amount in the distribution of national funds for the support of
education.  The average expenditure on education as a percent of GNP and as a
percent of total government expenditure for the five similar middle-income
countries of Jordan, Tunisia, Korea, Portugal, and Mexico i3 5.5% and 15.1%,
respectively. In Turkey, education expenditures for all levels, including
higher education, decreased from 3.4% of GNP and 13.6% of total government
expenditures in 1980 to 2.4% and 11.4%, respectively, in 1Q86 (Annex 6), a
period of relative prosperity in the country. The downward trend was reversed
from the low point of 1986, rising in 1988 to an improved, but still low 2.6%
and 12.2%, respectively. It is difficult to conclude, therefore, whether the
Government has a clear policy to allocate higher resources for education.
1.17        The MOE total expenditures of US$1,383 million equivalent in 1988
included US$237 million for caRital investments, US$50.6 million for
"transfers", i.e., payment of other commitments, and US$1,095 million for
recurrent costs. MOE investments, averaging 16% of total sector expenditures
over the 3-year period, included mostly school construction and furniture with
very little, if any, going for instructional equipment or other quality inputs
to the system. Recurrent expenditures, averaging 80% of total expenditures
over the period, were distributed as 93% for personnel and 7% for consumables.
The remaining 4% of total expenditures was allocated for transfers. Taken as
a whole, this amounted to a total recurrent expenditure averaging US$91
equivalent per stuient in 1988, which was mainly for personnel salaries and
benefits. (The average for low-middle and high-middle income countries is
US$102 and US$297, respectively). The consumables portion of recurrent
expenditures amounted to an average of about US$6 equivalent per student that
year and covered such items as materials, supplies, a 30-50% subsidy of
textbook production costs, maintenance, and overheads. Textbooks are
purchased by the parents at the discounted rate, or by the parent-teacher
associations (PTAs) for families which cannot afford the book costs.
Recurrent expenditures for these latter items are extremely low and must be
increased substantially if the Government's expectation of improving and
maintaining the quality of education for a rapidly increasing school
population is to be fulfilled.
1.18        Increased alloca.ions will be required for recurrent expenditures
in subsequent years to cover additional quality improvements and sector needs,
including incremental recurrent costs to be generated by the proposed project
(para. 3.08), plus the costs of additional teachers to accommodate the on-
going school construction/expansion program (para. 1.29). The current rate of
classroom additions increases the recurrent budget needs by about 4-5% p.a.
(in real terms) or almost half of the average annual recurrent budget
increases (11% in real terms) experienced over the past three years. The
other half of this amount has been used primarily for teacher salary
increases. The Government will meet part of the additional recurrent funding
needs through savings to accrue from selected policy measures such as
tightening up teaching assignments/loads and re-assigning teachers for more



- 8 -
equitable distribution and greater efficiency. The remaining needs will be
met through careful analysis of budget needs and increased provision of
resources (para. 3.27). The Government, under its new policy of assigning
high budget priority to education and health, is taking a new look at
education finance in the country with the expectation of augmenting
allocations and putting education back on a firmer financial footing.
1.19        Some improvement is already being observed in education finance,
especially in regard to teacher salaries which, because they conform to the
civil servant scale, have traditionally been low in comparison with salaries
o- the private sector -- a phenomenon common to most countries. A general
salary increase was provided for civil servants in January of 1989 averaging
about 25-30 percent of current base salary and another increase in June of
1989 averaged about 100 percent of base salary, with teachers being favored on
the high side. A further increase is included in ths budget for 1990. While
this is minimal in real terms for "keeping up" with inflation, it is a "good
faith effort" in the right direction (para. 1.20). Also, legislation in 1987
designated tax revenues from the sale of alcohol and tobacco products for
support of improvements in the education and health sectors. These additional
resources are enabling MOE to accelerate its school construction program aimed
at decreasing over-crowdedness and making education more accessible to the
school-age population. These budget supplements are expected to have a
significant impact on both sectors.
1.20        The level of teacher salaries, while low, has not been a major
obstacle in the recruitment of teachers for general education. Special "add
on"s to the base salary for location of teaching assignment, additional
teaching load, and other unique conditions can amount to as much as 30-40% of
base salary in some cases. And, while teacher salaries follow the civil
servant scale, the special "add on" provision results in most teachers
receiving higher total salaries than other civil servants with comparable
credentials. Further, while most teachers are obligated to work 9-months per
year, they are paid on a 12-month basis, so the remuneration for time worked
is actually more than might normally be assumed. Teacher salaries are not, at
this point, a major issue in general education.
C. 8ectoral Issues
1.21        Despite the significant gains achieved in recent years, Turkey's
education indicators compare unfavorably with those of other middle-income
countries. A gradual worsening of teaching and learning conditions over the
past two decades, caused partially by underfunding of the sector and other
related factors, has lessened the effectiveness of the system for meeting the
country's education and economic development needs. The major sectoral
concerns center around five critical issues: (a) the need for improved student
achievement, (b) the need for greater access to educational opportunity, (c)
the need for increased efficiency within the system, (d) the need for improved
organizational management, and (e) the need for increased financial support of
the education sector.
1.22        Student Achievement.  The need for improvements in student
achievement is indicated by the relatively low student performance on national
examinations (though these are non-standardized tests), high repetition and



-9-
drop-out rates, low performance in foreign language studies, low acceptance
rates to foreign universities, and inadequacies on other standard education
indicators. While there are little, if any, valid normative data in Turkey on
which to base inferences of student learning and cognitive achievement on a
national basis, or to use with comparative data from other countries, other
indicators show quality of education to be an area in considerable need of
improvement. Serious efforts need to be made for improving the quality inputs
to the system; i.e., curriculum, textbooks, teaching materials and equipment,
and teacher performance, all of which have been determined by extensive
international research to be major contributors to student learning and
achievement.  Other areas of needed improvement have been for extended student
exposure to the educative process, i.e., a longer school year and an extension
of basic education, each of which is now being incorporated under the
education reform program.
1.23        Access to Educational Opportunity.  Limited access to educational
opportunity results from shortages of schools and classroom space in certain
areas, long travel distances to schools for many rural children, shortages of
quality teaching and learning materials and equipment, and to a certain extent
lack of teacher motivation to live and teach in the more remote areas of the
country. All of these factors are involved in the Turkish educational context
and most students are affected by one or more to seme degree. The shortage of
schools and classrooms curtails educational opportunity for children beyond
the primary school level, a partial cause of the low participation rates at
the middle- and secondary levels of education (para. 1.07) and a serious
national concern. The other factors affect most students to a greater or
lesser degree at all levels of the educational spectrum. Part of the problem
can be attributed to the increased pressure for education services in a period
of heavy financial retrenchment and the chronic under-financing of the sector
(para. 1.15 through 1.20).
1.24        Education Efficiency.  Internal efficiency, as well as efficiency
of staff utilization, throughout the system is lower than for most middle-
income countries. Student failure rates for the system as a whole average 31%
and 26% respectively, for boys and girls. Repetition rates averaged 8%, 19%,
and 19% respectively in 1986, for primary, middle, and secondary schools and
drop-out rates averaged 11%, 6%, and 12%, respectively. Internal efficiency
is influenced partially by the quality of education, including quality of
instruction, and the relative ease of accessing the system; however, other
factors need to be explored with an eye toward improvement.
1.25        Student-teacher ratios are somewhat out-of-line with the
Government's policy goal of 25:1, 40:1, 30:1, and 30:1, respectively, for pre-
school, primary, middle, and secondary schools, which the Bank considers
reasonable. System-wide, the overall average student-teacher ratio in 1988
was 17:1, 31:1, 49:1, and 13:1, respectively, (Annex 2). Based on 1987-88
enrollments and numbers of employed teachers, strict adherence to the policy
goal for student-teacher ratios on a system-wide basis in general education
alone would result in the current number of employed teachers being in excess
of need by some 57,000, or 21% over the policy goal. While the middle schools
are understaffed by about 27,000 teachers, the pre-schools and primary and
secondary schools have excesses in the order of 2,000, 49,000, and 33,000,
respectively, based on the policy goal. More than 33,000 of these are the



- 10 -
higher paid secondary school teachers, while 22,000 and 2,000, respectively,
are primary and pre-school teachers. Middle school programs, on the other
hand, are understaffed by some 27,000 teachers. The potential for cost
savings in teacher utilization, while at the same time relieving the middle
school teachers' excessive load burden, is therefore great.
1.26        Further to the teacher efficiency concern, the standard full-time
teaching assignment in Turkey is 18 hours per week for primary teachers and 15
hours per week for middle and secondary school teachers. Many teachers accept
over-time assignments and teach the maximum load allowance of 27 hours per
week for additional remuneration. However, it is not uncommon because of
scheduling conflicts or an excess of teachers for a particular subject in a
given school to result in some "full-time" teachers having a teaching load of
as few as 10-12 hours per week. Similar situations exist in school
administration where the number of assistant principals assigned to a school
is based on the size of school enrollment rather than in accordance with
required administrative functions. A school with relatively large enrollment
may therefore have 7-10 assistant principals when, in fact, only 3-4 may
actually be needed for effective management of the school. The
teacher/administrator utilization factor is therefore quite low in some cases,
indicating a need for re-deployment of teaching staff to improve efficiency at
the primary and secondary school levels, to address teacher shortages in some
locations, and to help relieve some of the burden at the middle school level.
1.27        Organizational Management.  In order to facilitate improved
management within the MOE system it is important to promote a more collegial
approach at the various management levels to planning and decision making,
increase expertise in institutional research, sectoral analysis, long-term
planning, managerial assessment and staff development, emphasize delegation of
authority, and improve capacity for data collection and analysis.
Consideration should be given to organizational and structural modifications
within the system to engender stronger cooperation and mutual support among
the various administrative units. Skills and capabilities of unit managers,
as well as administrators at all levels, including the provincial and local
levels, need to be up-graded and expanded to strengthen leadership
capabilities and elicit greater participation and innovation in the planning
and decision-making process. And, while the MOE has established an elementary
computer-based management information system (MIS), it needs to be expanded
and up-graded for increased effectiveness and management support.
1.28        Education Finance.  While minimal increases have been made in the
funding of education during recent years, they have not kept pace with growth
in the sector and the need to up-grade the quality of the system.
Furthermore, fund allocations for education have not kept abreast of real
growth in the economy. On the other hand, considerable room exists in the
system for using available funds more effectively through more efficient
teacher/administrator utilization (para. 1.25 and 1.26). Balancing teacher
loads and per student costs through re-deployment of staff needs to be
explored thoroughly. The gradual movement of planning and decision making
authority to the provincial governments should result in more efficient
utilization of resources. However, while improvements in efficiency of staff
utilization are being planned to help lighten the financial burden, it is
clear that improved quality and increased enrollments will require additional



- 11 -
budget resources if the Government's goals for educational development are to
be realized.
D. Government Plans and Policies for Education Development
1.29        Sectoral Plans.  The Government of Turkey has formally declared
education and health as top priorities for public sector investment. Almost
all education expenditures of an investment nature during recent years have
focused on quantitative concerns; e.g., providing more schools and classrooms
and expanding vocational education facilities, with little investment in the
development, maintenance, and im'rovement of the quality inputs to general
education. Under the Government s plans for development of the sector,
construction of additional school facilities will continue for the next
several years at a rate similar to that of the past 3-4 years. Also,
vocational education will continue as an area of special emphasis. However,
the Government will now add a general education up-dating and qualitj
improvement component to the investment progr&m, along with special efforts to
improve sectoral management and decision-making, procedures.
1.30        In the above context, the Government's major goals for education
during the next two Five-Year Development Plan periods (1990-1999) are to
have: (a) a modern education system which provides appropriate educational
services comparable in quality, level, and scope to those of European and
other advanced countries; (b) a strong pre-service and in-service teacher
education capability with high quality programs relevant to local school
needs; (c) an effectively managed education system with participation of
provincial and local administrators in planning and decision-making; (d)
efficient and effective utilization of sector resources; (e) vocational
education programs and services for about 50 percent of the secondary school
enrollment; (f) quality educational services for an increasing number of
students with physical and learning disabilities; and (g) education facilities
sufficient for 100 percent of the middle school age-group and 75 percent of
the secondary school age-group.
1.31        Phase I (1990-94) of the sectoral development program will
continue to concentrate on the original program items (school construction,
education for students with physical and learning disabilities, and continued
development of vocational education). However, it will also take on a quality
and management improvement dimension to include revamping of school curricula,
textbooks, and materials, a first-stage upgrading of university pre-service
teacher training, development of a systematic program for in-service teacher
training, and special efforts to improve management and administrative skills
and practices within the MOE. The school facilities expansion program, as
well as the special education program for students with learning disabilities
will continue to be funded by local resources. The vocational education
expansion program will continue, as currently, with financing under local and
other resources (para. 1.04). However, in recognition of the sector's need
for substantial quality and organizational improvements and the Bank's
potential contribution in this regard, the Government is seeking Bank
assistance for the planned quality enhan^.ement and the management and
administration improvement which would be undertaken under the proposed
National Education Development Project.



- 12 -
1.32        Present capital expenditure in the total education development
program is about US$ 322 million equivalent p.a., i.e., MOE - $237 million in
1988 and Y8K - $85.3 million in 1987 (latest data on YOK). Extending this
amount over the implementation period of Phase I (assuming no significant
increases in real terms) and adding the estimated cost of the proposed project
for the 5-year period, would result in a total Phase I cost of some US$1,785
million equivalent, averaging US$357 p.a., or an increase of about 11% per
year over present expenditures. Incremental recurrent costs to be generated
by the development program (including the proposed project) are estimated to
be in the order of 4% per year in real terms (3% for MOE and 1% for Y6K).
Investment requirements for the first phase development measures described
above have been included in the Sixth Five-Year Development Plan (1990-1994).
1.33        Phase II of the program (1995-99) will continue the school
construction effort to eliminate double and triple shifting of school
schedules and assure student places by the year 2000 for all of the basic- and
about 75% of the secondary-school age-group. It will continue the provision
of instructional equipment to supplement what is contributed locally by
supportive groups and organizations, the on-going review and revision of
curricula in accordance with the previously adopted plan, the revisions of
textbooks and materials, and support for continued up-grading of teacher
education. The extent of these activities and additional items to be included
in Phase II will be determined by the state of development about mid-way, or
near the end of, this initial operation.  While it is too early to project
cost estimates for Phase II with any certainty, current thinking is that, for
effective implementation, the scope and cost should be in the order of that
planned for Phase I.
1.34        Policy Initi&tives.  The Government of Turkey has a well-defined
policy framework unde. 4hich the education system operates. Policies are
reviewed periodically by the National Board of Education (para. 1.08) which
makes recommendations for revisions by the Higher Council of Education as
deemed appropriate. The Bank has reviewed basic education policies with the
relevant agencies and discussed needed and planned changes for improving
quality and management of the system. Implementation of the proposed project
would therefore involve a series of selected and important policy changes and
transitional arrangements as indicated below to support the sectoral
development program. The policy changes indicated below would be, or are
already being, implemented in conjunction with the reform operation and are
supported by the project objectives:
(a)   The school year is being extended from 163 days to 185 days for
increased student exposure to and involvement in the education
process;
(b)   Basic education is being extended from 5 years to 8 years of
mandatory schooling in an effort to raise the overall level of
educational attainment in the country;
(c)   Primary teacher certification requirements are being increased
from two years of teacher training to four years for better
teacher preparation -.n terms of general knowledge and pedagogical
skill development;



- 13 -
(d)   Teachers will be required to participate in a two-week intensive
training/refresher course (as a minimum) at least every five
years;
(e)   The printing of textbooks will be gradually shifted over the next
5-7 years to the private sector, enabling the MOE to get out of
the printing business; and
(f)   Selected aspects of education planning and decision-making will
gradually be delegated to the provinces and sub-provinces in an
effort to elicit more local input to the education process and
allow some flexibility for adaptation to local cultural
differences and other local needs and conditions.
In addition, specific organizational and procedural changes will be undertaken
by the proposed project to support implementation of these and other existing
policies and for overall improvement of the sector as a whole. During
Negotiations, the Government provided assurance that the policy adopted by MOE
requiring teachers to participate in an intensive two-week refresher course
(as a minimum) at least once every five years would be formally initiated
under the project (para. 5.01 (a)).
B. Bank Stratm  and Rationale for Educational Develo]. et
1.35        Previous Experience.  The Bank has provided five educational loans
to Turkey (Loans 748-, 2399-, 2536-, 2776-, and 2922-TU), all of which were
designed to improve the country's vocational education and manpower training
capabilities.   The first loan (Ln 748-TU), signed in 1971 and completed in
1981, supported the development of secondary vocational education and trade
schools and a vocational teacher education college. Two subsequent loans
(Lns. 2536- and 2776-TU), signed in 1985 and 1987, respectively, are building
on the first by continuing to support the up-grading and expansion of
secondary vocational schools and trade programs under auspices of the Ministry
of Education and the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIT).  The other two
loans (Lns. 2399- and 2922-TU), signed in 1984 and 1988, respectively, are
supporting the development of post-secondary technical institutes fot training
technicians, four university vocational-technical teacher training colleges
under YWK, and special programs for tourism training under the Ministry of
Culture and Tourism.
1.36        The Project Completion Report of June 1981 and the Performance
Audit Report No. 4018 (PPAR), dated June 28, 1982 for the first project (Ln
748-TU) noted that the educational impact of the project was considerable,
particularly on the secondary vocational schools, with project equipment well
used and maintained and enrollment in the project schools as anticipated at
appraisal. The major problems experienced in the first project were delays in
construction of project schools and a weak project unit which was unable to
provide adequate support services to both project ministries, i.e., the MOE
and MIT. Subsequent proiects experienced, to a lesser extent, similar
problems in tne initial stages of implementation, including poor management of
equipment procurement and in some cases teachers not being adequately tralned
to effectively utilize equipment provided under the projects. Further, some
I



- 14 -
management and coordination problems have been experienced in the YoK
Technician Training II project (Ln. 2922-TU). However, the MOE Project Unit
has been reorganized and relocated within the Ministry, Project Unit staff
have been trained in project planning and management procedures, and the
teacher-equipment utilization problem is currently being resolved. Also, the
YaK Project Unit has identified and is correcting its management problems and
is functioning well in the implementation of its technician training projects
(Lns. 2399- and 2922-TJ). Experience with the earlier projects has been taken
into account in this proposed operation as follows: (a) to ensure smoother
project implementation, The MOE and Y8K would each be .-esponsible for
implementing their own project components; (b) the YoK Project Coordination
Unit would draw upon YOK's now experienced Technician Training Unit for
support in the procurement of technical assistance and equipment; and (c)
teachers would be trained/oriented in advance on the operation of equipment to
be provided under the project.
1.37        Future Lending Strategy.  The Bank's previous financial support to
Turkey's education sector has focused primarily on the development and
expansion of vocational education and technician and manpower training.
Initial interventions in the sector were directed towarc' activities which
would have a direct and immediate impact on economic growth and development.
However, the Bank's more recent dialogue with the Government has included
extensive discussions on the critical need to improve quality in general and
higher education as well, to establish a broader foundatiLon for the country's
overall development. Therefore, during the next decade, the Bank proposes to
support general education and training in support of science and technology.
This strategy is consistent with the Government's long-term development
program for the education sector.
1.38        Rationale for Bank Support.  The Bank's previous support to
Turkey's education sector focused primarily on qualitative improvement and
expansion of vocational/technical education and manpower training. This was
due mainly to the Government's high priority of providing trained manpower
support to the productive sector and its previous reluctance to borrow for
general education. While Bank supported projects in vocational/technical
education have been generally successful, they have been intentionally limited
in scope. Continued dialogue with the Government has revealed the need for
education support of a much broader nature, resulting in the Bank's 1986
Education Sector Survey Report which made a wide range of recommendations for
sector reform and improvement. The Government's own evaluation of the system
confirms the Report's major conclusions and presents a plan for reform based
on its recommendations. The proposed project covers an important segment of
the Government's sectoral development plan, and its scope and content are
consistent with the country's development potential and implementation
capacity. The Bank can make a substantial contribution through this operation
by helping to formulate the Government's sectoral development strategy and
assisting in tackling serious sectoral issues and problems.



- 15 -
II. TE PROJECT
A. Project origin
2.01        The proposed project was prepared by the Government subsequent to
Bank identification missions in February and May 1988 and in conjunction with
preparation assistance missions in September 1988 and February 1989. Pre-
appraisal discussions were held in Ankara in June 1989 and the project was
appraised in October/November 1989.
B. Proiect Objectives
2.02        The project would focus on the quality enhancement and management
improvement aspects of the Government's broader sectoral development program.
It would address, through the objectives listed below, three of the major
sectoral issues, i.e., student achievement, educational efficiency, and
organizational management. The project objectives are as follows:
(a)   to improve the quality of Drimarv and secondary education for
increasing student achievement to a level approaching the average
of OECD countries;
(b)   to improve the quality and relevance of teacher education to a
level consistent with norms for such training in OECD countries;
(c)   to improve management and administrative skills and practices in
the Ministry of Education for more efficient and effective use of
resources.
C. Projegt DescriRtion
2.03        The project, to be implemented over a seven year period, would
focus on high priority medium-term sectoral development actions along with a
number of longer-term measures designed to strengthen various aspects of the
country's education infrastructure. Specifically, it would seek to improve
(a) the quality of primary and secondary education, (b) quality and relevance
of teacher education, and management and administration of the education
system.
D. Detailed Features of the Project
ImDroving Ouality of Primary and Seconfdary Education (U8S73.1 N)
2.04        Curriculum Management and Policy Development.  The Board of
Education (BOE), with consultative assistance to be provided under the
project, would initiate a special review of MOE policies, procedures, and
processes for planning, developing and periodically up-dating the national
curricula, textbooks, and support materials, and would make recommendations to
the Minister for policy and procedural changes as appropriate. This agency
would also make policy recommendations on appropriate curriculum emphases for
priority concerns such as the environment, development opportunities for
i



- 16 -
women; etc. The BOE would submit to the Minister at the end of each school
year an annual report listing accomplishments during the year toward
implementation of MOE curriculum and other educational policies, along with
recommendations for on-going curriculum revisions. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurance that the BOE's initial curriculum policy review
and recommendations would be completed no later than September 1, 1990 (para.
5.03 (b)).
2.05        All curriculum development units/groups presently dispersed
throughout the MOE would be consolidated into a unified Education Research and
Development Center (ERDC) which would have responsibility for all development
activities in the education sector, including curricula, textbooks, materials,
educational research, testing and evaluation, etc. The ERDC would be located
in MOE owned facilities in the Beseveler area of Ankara where the BOE, FRTVC,
TEC and a number of other MOE buildings are located. The project would
include a provision for renovating the assigned building.
2.06        Establisbment of the ERDC is intended to improve education
development and evaluation procedures and processes and serve as a first step
in streamlining selected MOE management functions (para. 2.32).  The ERDC
would be organized along functional lines described in Annex 7. The Bank
agreed during appraisal to the Government's terms of reference for the various
ERDC positions. ERDC would provide for better internal coLmunications and
coordination among the curriculum groups to develop higher quality curricula
and supporting materials, improve control over the developmental cycle of
curriculum and textbook revision. The ERDC would be the operational research
and development arm of the MOE for curriculum and instructional materials
development, educational research, and evaluation.  Its ini.ial function would
be to establish a plan, procedure, and schedule for continual review and
revision of the curriculum enabling the entire curriculum and school program
to be revised, each subject grouping in its turn, and adjusted as deemed
necessary to ensure a periodic re-visiting and up-dating of curricula. The
Ministry would therefore enhance through this mechanism the process for
continual review, planning, and up-dating of curricula, textbooks, and
supplementary instructional materials. The BOE (para. 1.08) would continue
its leadership role of advising the Minister on approval of curriculum and
related development outputs. All items under this project component would
therefore be implemented by the ERDC with logistical and technical support
services to be provided by the MOE Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
2.07        Curriculum P.eview and Development.  The ERDC staff, with technical
input and assistance from national subject panels, e.g., on social studies,
mathematics, science, and consultant specialists as required, would review,
revise, and up-date curriculum content, textbooks, and instructional materials
for the respective subject areas. Such revisions would be in accordance with
the formal plan and schedule to be developed by the ERDC and formally adopted
by the Ministry (para. 2.06). The review and up-date process would continue
on a periodic basis thereafter in accordance with the development plan and
schedule with the expected result of improving student achievement and
educational efficiency, i.e., lower failure, drop-out, and repetition rates.
The Government provided to the Bank, during loan negotiations, a preliminary
plan of work for the ERDC's first three years of operation, including BOE
plans to review MOE curriculum policies, procedures, and processes and the



- 17 -
ERDC's plans for subsequent up-grading of curriculum structure and content,
text books, and instructional materials; e.g., ERDC preparation of
manuscripts, teachers' guides, supplementary instructional materials -- both
print and non-print, including audio-visual materials, with which the Bank
agreed.
2.08        The ERDC would focus initially on up-grading the basic curriculum
structure and content, plus initiation of textbook and instructional materials
development for selected subject matter streams as per the action plan to be
adopted (Para, 2.06). Neu curriculum, textbooks, and classroom materials
would be disseminated system-wide only after they have been field tested in a
representative sample of curriculum laboratory schools and revised as
necessary based upon information from the evaluative process. The laboratory
schools to be selected for purposes of this project would include 98 primary
schools, 14 basic schools (primary and middle combined), 38 middle schools,
and 50 general secondary schools (including sixteen Anatolia secondary
schools). The Bank agreed during appraisal to the Government's criteria for
selection of the schools to be included in this component of the operation
(Annex 8).
2.09        Classrooms and other pertinent facilities of the laboratory
schools would be renovated and equipped as necessary to properly evaluate the
materials and to establish basic equipment and facilities standards for
continued development of the sector.   During Loan Negotiations, the
Government provided assurarces that the MOE would make an assessment of the
selected curriculum labora_ory schools' and computer experimental schools'
(para.2.12) facilities and that local funds would be provided to renovate and
furnish the respective schools in accordance with recommendations for meeting
mutually agreed classroom standards (para. 5.01 (c)). This initial provision
of equipment and facilities renovatiolL would serve as a. first step in the             p
long-term plan to provide basic instru tional equipment for all schools
according to a general plan and allocation formula based on individual school
enrollments, numbers of teachers, and potential contributions from local PTAs
and private organizations. The provision of instructional equipment would be
expanded to additional schools, to the extent possible, in subsequent MOE
operations. The proy3sed new equipment would be of such nature as to
facilitate use of the Film, Radio, and Television Center (FRTVC) produced
media materials (para. 2.15) and would include other priority items such as
basic science equipment, storage cabinets, improved chalk boards, etc. The
materials testing and revision process would be conducted by ERDC staff, under
cooperative arrangements with the provincial directorates of education and in
conjunction with teachers of the laboratory schools who would be trairned for
the purpose.
2.10        The curriculum and educational development effort would also
include a planned program for introducing comRuter literacy and computer aided
instruction (CAI) in grade 10 of selected secondary schools on a limited,
trial basis. This would be a two-stage program, the first stage of which
would begin with 15 Anatolia Schools (para. 1.06) which provide instruction in
English and could thus begin with existing and available software. Stage 2
would begin in year 2 or 3 of the project after new instructional software has
been developed and/or adapted for the Turkisb language. This computer
education program element would be implemented after completion of a



- 18 -
greliminary study and tralninR proRram to be funded by the U.S. Trade
Development Program (TDP) under a bilateral agreement with the Government.
The study would be conducted by a team of CAI consultant specialists working
with a Minister-appointed CAI Task force of 5-6 local specialists who would
receive special training for this purpose both in-country and abroad under the
TDP program. The task force would review the education system and proposed
program objectives, make policy recommendations on the prcoper role and use of
computers in the Turkish educational system, and develop a computer education
implementation plan. The preliminary study would also include preparation of
a computer education element for tie curriculum; a teacher training plan and
program; recommendations on needed software development activities; design of
an evaluation scheme for stage 1, to use as a basis for continuing with
initiation of stage 2; and a comprehensive evaluation plan to measure success
of the overall computer education component and on which to base further
development in this area. The Government confirmed during loan negotiations
that a firm has been contracted under the TDP grant to conduct the computer
education preliminary study, including a plan and schedule of work for
implementing the computer education component of the proposed project.
2.11        Fifty-three general secondary schools which do not already have
computer education programs (25 from the curriculum laboratory schools (para.
2.10) and 28 additional schools) would be selected to participate as
expc !ental schools for this pilot computer education program. The group of
25 experimental schools would include 17 general secondary and 8 Anatolia
schools. The other group of 28 schools (four from each of the seven Regions)
would include seven Anatolia schools and 21 general secondary schools. Seven
of these experimental schools, one in each of the seven regions of the country
and representing both urban and rural areas, would be designated as
demonstration schools. Each of the schools would be equipped with 20 basic
computers, two printars, and appropriate instructional software to meet the
objectives for this project activity. Approximately 225 teachers would be
chosen from the selected schools (two from the morning shift and two from the
afternoon shift) to be trained locally for implementing the program and
assisting in its ultimate evaluation.  The Bank agreed during appraisal to
Government's criteria for selection of schools to participate in this program
(Annex 8).
2.12        Imnrovement in Ouality of Textbooks and Materials.  This component
would place special emphasis on improving the quality of textbooks, both in
content and in physical production specifications. Improvements would also be
made in the quality of book covers (and possibly paper stock), as well as the
type of binding, in order to prolong the useful life of the books.
2.13        The currently used "perfect binding", which is unsuitable for
textbooks, would be replaced by an improved binding process. and book covers
would be subjected to a special surface treatment to improve durability. With
these minor but important physical improvements, along with possibly improved
paper stock, the books are expected to last about 3-4 years versus the present
textbook life of generally less than one year. The Government is considering
the feasibility of renting the better quality books each year over a three-
four year period for near full cost recovery as an alternative to the present
system of reprinting annually and selling only new books to students at
subsidized prices (about 30-50X subsidy, depending on the type of book). The



- 19 -
Government will conduct two studies as soon after project initiation as
possible to obtain information on which to base future policy decisions in
this regard. The first study would irnvestigate a range of specifications for
up-graded physical production quality of textbooks, determine by volume and
quality level the costs of up-grading, and make recommendations for
appropriate quality levels to adopt. The second study would investigate
textbook rental possibilities md make recommendations for a textbook rental
policy initiative. The Government agreed during Negotiationa that the studies
on up-grading physical quality of textbooks and implementing a textbook rental
and/or a used book re-sale scheme, along with the education studies described
in para. 2.18, would be completed by June 30, 1992, or other date as warranted
by circumstances (para. 5.01 (d)). Further, the Government has began to
gradually transfer (over a 5-7 year period) about 70-80% of its textbook
printing (not publications) load from MOE to the private sector. Small and/or
unusual printing jobs which are less attractive to private firms will continue
to be handled within the MOE.
2.14        All aspects of the gublications phase of textbook production,
i.e., contracting of authors, design, layout, s.diting, graphics, etc., will be
retained in the Ministry and assigned to the ERDC as a part of its overall
curriculum and materials development function.  This fuznction will include
provision of improved guidelines for textbook authors; better coordination of
content for curricula, textbooks, and instructional materials; and improved
procedures for quality control in layout, graphics, editing, etc. It will
also include the development of procedures for ensuring quality standards in
printing and binding of textbooks, contracted to private firms.  As the
curriculum revision begins to take sbape, the ERDC will initiate a textbook
development program which extends over the entire range of grade levels - -
primary, middle, and secondary. All of the developments described above will
require a highly competent staff with a broad range of publishing skills. A
comprehensive program of fellowships and consultancies would therefore.be
provided to train appointed staff in professional publishing skills so that
internationally accepted methods of textbook production can be developed and
applied to the Turkish educational system.
2.15        Capabilities for production of non-textbook teaching and learning
materials would be improved under the proposed project. The MOE Film. Radio.
and Television Center (FRTVC) produces a majority of the instructional
materials used in the education system, e.g., slides, tapes, films, maps,
charts, graphs, video cassettes, etc. The proposed project would assist the
MOE in irmproving the production capacity and capability of this facility
through the provision of modern, up-dated equipment for better quality
materials. It also would include technical assistance for in-plant training
and up-grading of general staff plus fellowship training abroad for up-
grading selected key staff.
2.16        Improved Distribution of Textbooks and Materials.  The  annual
increase in enrollments, with the requirement for more textbooks, of a greater
size and weight as a result of the quality up-grading, will create the need
for a more modern textbook storage and distribution system. The project would
*          therefore include the provision of improved warehousing and materials handling
equipment and facilities; implementation of a modern computerized inventory,
ordering, and distribution accounting capability; improved delivery and



- 20 -
retailing arrangements; up-dated overall management procedures; and technical
assistance to support the up-grading operation.
2.17        Testing and Evaluation.  The MOE would initiate under this project
component a technical capability for monitoring on a national basis the
quality of education in Turkey and for evaluating the system against those of
other countries. The Ministry would therefore expand the role, function, and
capability of its Testing and Evaluation Center (TEC) and re-assign the
Center, alo,ng with its present and projected functions, i.e., research,
development, and analysis of testing and evaluation instruments, to the ERDC
to form a testing and evaluation division for greater linkages with the
curriculum and materials producers. This new division, with consultative
assistance as required, would develop a capability for researching, producing,
validating, and standardizing tests for establishing national norms on student
cognitive achievement, for comparative analyses and interpretation of
achievement test data, and for periodically gauging the quality of the
national education system -- both in terms of achievement gains in-country and
as measured against comparators of selected other countries. During
negotiations, the Governmert provided assurance that no less than three
qua'ified Fiec0allsts in tests and measurements would be recruited by
September 1, 1991 to serve in the testing and evaluation division of the ERDC
(para. 5.01 (e)).
2.18        Education Studies.  During project implementation, the Government
would initiate a number of basic studies to help undergird the sectoral
develonment program. The planned studies would include the following: (a)
development of a teacher testing program to establish base-line data against
which to measure improvements in teacher quality over the next several years
as a result of the proposed project activities; (b) implement a school mapping
study to determine projected student growth patterns and trends in population
shifts and resulting unique education needs of the respective Regions and
provinces; (c) feasibility of including in-service teacher training as a
factor for consideration in the promotion of education personnel; (d) analysis
of actual teaching loads throughout the system and implications for increased
efficiency and cost savings; (e) an inventory of instructional equipment and
supplies in schools to determine availability and extent of needs; and (f) an
assessment of the extent to which science laboratories are used and the
advisability of equipping middle schools with science equipment and materials
appropriate for teacher demonstrations instead of small groups or individual
laboratory work.
2.19        In summary, this project component would include: (a) renovation,
furnishing, and equipping of special quarters in the BOE building to house the
ERDC; (b) equipment for curriculum, textbook, and instructional materials
development, testing, and evaluation; (c) renovation of classrooms and
terrhing laboratories as required for the curriculum and computer laboratory
schools; (d) improved textbook and materials storage facilities; (e)
instructional equipment as necessary and appropriate for the laboratory
schools; (f) materials and supplies for developmental purposes; and (g)
technical assistance in the form of fellowship training abroad (550.5 mm) to
train and up-date key staff in modern procedures and approaches for
curriculum, textbook, and materials development and production and consultant



- 21 -
specialists (175 mm) for staff training locally and for technical support in
implementing the sub-program activities (Annex 14).
ImRroving Quality and Relevanco of Thagher Education (U8S83.9 H)
2.20         The Government recognizes the critical importance of teacher
training for achieving a high quality education system. It has therefore
taken the position that teacher education will be given high priority in the
education reform program to ensure that teachers are adequately prepared for
their teaching tasks. In line with this concern and partially as a basis for
this proposed project compoinent, the MOE and YoK jointly convened, in June
1989, a national symposium on teacher education to seek input from teachers,
school administrators, university professors, and others on the perceived
current status of teaching, needs for improvement, and recommended actions.
Among important recommendations to come out of the symposium, e.g., those
concerning improved pre- and in-service teacher training curricula, materials,
and staff development, was the recommendation (subsequently approved by the
Parliament) to extend the pre-service training requirement for primary
teachers from two to four years (para. 1.09). The two-year PTCs of the
university Faculties of Education are also being converted to four-year
institutions ir response to this change in certification requirements.  The
project will address this and the broader teacher quality issue through the
provision of resources for improving pre-service and in-service teacher
training as indicated below. Project items related to pre-service training
will be implemented by Y6K, while those related to in-service training will be
implemented by the MOE.
2.21        Primary Teacher Training. Special efforts will be made under the
project to increase/expand the knowledge and professional skill levels of new
teachers being trained by the PTCs through improvements in the quality of
primary teacher training programs, facilities, and staff in each of the 25
colleges. This component would include: (a) basic renovation of existing
facilities; (b) instructional equipment and furniture; (c) library resource
materials; and (d) technical assistance in the form of consultant services for
curriculum and instructional materials development and local staff training.
The PTCs currently have basically the same teacher education curriculum,
textbooks, instructional materials, equipment, etc., and their staff
development needs are virtually identical. This similarity among primary
teacher training programs would continue under the project, as there is less
need for diversity among institutional programs at this level of teacher
training. Individual PTCs desiring to participate in the proposed project
would submit to the YoK Secretariat for Teacher Education a detailed
institutional development plan (IDP), specifying and justifying their
requested support for facility renovation, equipment, library materials, staff
training, etc. The IDP would be reviewed by a special committee (para. 2.22)
which would make recommendations to the Secretariat on the type and degree of
support to be provided under the project.
2.22        Curriculum, materials, and staff development activities to be
provided under the PTC comoonent would be implemented by a team of consultants
working with four 5-member subject area panels (mathematics, science, social
studies, and arts and music): Each panel would comprise four PTC teaching
staff members and one university professor recognized as a leader in primary



- 22 -
teacher education for the respective panel's subject area. Broad general
review and guidance for implementation of this component would be provided by
a Primary Teacher Education Steering Committee (PTESC) with member
representation as described in Annex 9. The PTESC, an operational level
committee to be established by YoK, would meet about 4 times per year to
review plans and achievements for the component and advise on implementation
activities. As part of its duties, the PTESC would review and make
recommendations on the PTCs' Institutional Development Plans. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurance that the Primary Teacher
Education Steering Committee and the Secondary Teacher Education Steering
Committee (para. 2.25) would be formally established by September 1, 1990
(para. 5.01 (f)). The consultant team would carry out its tasks with
logistical and other support services from the Council's Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) to be established in the YoK Secretariat for Teacher Education
(para. 3.11). The primary teachers' colleges would be responsible for
initiating and overseeing their own facility renovation as provided under
their sub-project contract with Y6K and with monitoring/supervision from the
PCU facilitiea specialist.
2.23        Training of Teachers for Middle and Secondary Schools.  Ten of the
17 university Faculties of Education would be selected, on the basis of agreed
criteria (para. 2.24), for major project support in expanding and/or enhancing
specific areas of their education personnel development programs. Each of the
10 Faculties selected would be provided assistance for developing strengths in
(ideally) at least three major areas of concentration; e.g., mathematics,
social studies, natural sciences, counseling and guidance, librarianship,
school administration (principalship) and each of the areas (especially those
in greatest demand) would be supported (ideally) in at least three
participating Faculties. In addition, limited project support would be
provided for the remaining seven faculties to develop and/or strengthen one
major area of concentration, generally in cooperation with one or more of the
10 initially selected Faculties. Additional resources for further development
of the latter seven Faculties would be sought through subsequent operations.
2.24        Faculties of Education desiring to participate in the project
would submit sub-project proposals to be evaluated by a special committee
(para. 2.25) according to agreed guidelines and criteria (Annex 10). Based on
results of proposal evaluations, the institutions would be approved for either
major developmental support or limited support. The costs of sub-projects
approved for major support are expected to average about US$0.9 million each
for the 10 faculties. Sub-projects of the remaining seven faculties approved
for limited support are expected to cost an average of about US$0.2 million
each. Unique elements of the individual sub-projects would be implemented by
the participating institutions under leadership of their designated sub-
project managers and staff. However, in most cases, three or more of the
institutions would develop a particular teacher training area/department
jointly. Common elements of such sub-projects, such as curriculum and
materials development would thus be accomplished centrally by consultant
teams. In such cases, project funding allocations for consultant services
would be managed centrally by the Council's PCU and the contracted consultants
would be located in the Y6K facilities for performance of their duties.
Institutional input to the consultants' work would be achieved through the use



- 23 -
of individual subject panels, each including a representative from the
institution receiving support for the respective subject area.
2.25        General guidance for this component would be provided through a
Secondary Teacher Education Steering Committee (STESC) to be formed with
membership representation as indicated in Annex 9. The STESC, to be an
operational level committee, would meet about 4 times per year to review plans
and achievements of the component and advise on implementation activities. It
would also serve as a peer-group panel to review and evaluate institutional
proposals from the various faculties (para. 2.24) and make recommendations, as
per agreed criteria at.d guidelines (Annex 10) on selection of the first 10
faculties to receive major developmental support and the extent of funding for
each of the proposed sub-projects. The PCU would provide logistical and other
support services to ensure smooth operation of the project.
2.26        The proposed project would assist selected Faculty of Education
subject area departments to develop/improve their approved programs through
the provision of: (a) renovation, furnishing, and equipping of teaching
facilities: (b) consultative assistance for curriculum and materials
development, staff training, and planning; (c) fellowship training both
locally and abroad for up-grading teacher training and research staff; and (d)
resources for copyrights, translations, and printing of textbooks for the
teacher education programs. In addition, twinning arrangements would be made
with selected universities of industrialized countries and/or with other local
institutions to establish a long-term relationship for continued development.
2.27        In-Service Teacher Education.  The KOE has adopted a policy
requiring all teachers to participate in an in-service refresher course at
least once every five years. The project would assist the In-service Training
Directorate in expanding and strengthening its capabilities for planning and
conducting training needs assessments and designing and implementing in-
service programs to meet the identified needs. The project would also include
provision for preparation and development of in-service teacher training
materials and programs. Due to the extremely large number of teaching staff
who currently need in-service training (MOE estimates upwards of 200,000),
priority groups of teachers and other education personnel would be identified,
along with the types of training required, and all available resources would
be brought to bear on the task at hand; i.e., staff and facilities of the
university faculties of education and primary teachers' colleges, distance
education programs utilizing television broadcasts and mail-out video
materials, master teachers conducting training in local school facilities, and
four education resource centers (ERCs) to be established under the project
(para. 2.29). Instructional materials and equipment would be provided in the
project to support the in-service training effort for up to 57,000 teachers
per year (up to 24,000 in the ERCs and 33,000 through existing facilities and
distance education). While in-service distance teaching would continue with
the project-developed materials, some resources currently supporting the
large-scale distance education program for primary teachers would be re-
channeled to the activities described above as the primary teachers' program
is now completing its fourth and final year.
2.1'8       The distance education program for in-service teacher training
will r-nuire administrative coordination and planning at the provincial and



- 24 -
local school levels. Establishment of a "master teacher" concept and approach
is therefore planned as an important element of the program. The master
teachers would serve as coordinators and resource persons for both the media-
and locally presented courses within their respective schools. Selected
inspectors from the central ministry and the provincial directorates would
serve as instructors for once- or twice-monthly face-to-face supplemental
training to support the television courses and for other regional in-service
activities.
2.29        The ERCs, operating under administration of the In-service
Training Directorate, woald be staffed and equipped to operate as multi-
purpose regional extension arms of the HOE. Two of the ERCs (a general
purpose center and a language training center) would share the same campus on
a site owned by the MOE in Hasanoglan (on the outskirts of Ankara), while the
other two centers will be located on MOE owned facilities in Istanbul and
Isparta, the latter two of which would be renovations. The ERCs would provide
in-service and special purpose training, on a selected basis, for various
groups of education personnel on topics not normally covered in the other                   -
programs. And finally, they would: (a) serve as special facilities for
selected training activities, such as training of in-service teacher trainers,
school inspectors, provincial directorate staff, etc.; (b) assist in
curriculum and instructional materials dissemination, implementation, and
evaluation; (c) serve as regional depositories of teacher resource materials
which teachers could use independently of organized training programs; and (d)
assist the ERDC and universities in school-based research.
2.30        The ERCs would be strategically located geographically to serve
those areas which can profit most from the ERC services and in which the ERCs
can effectively carry out the various functions of their intended mission. A
number of school inspectors and "master teachers" would be trained to assist
with planning and coordinating, and in some cases teaching, in those portions
of the in-service training program to be conducted through the ERCs and local
schools. School inspectors would be closely involved with regional training
activities, while the master teachers would contribute more to training and
other personnel development activities within their own respective schools.
Activities of the ERCs would be carefully monitored and their contribution to
extending and enhancing educational services of the MOE would be closely
evaluated to determine if there is justification for expanding their numbers
in future development operations.
2.31        In summary, the proposed project would include, for the Faculties
of Education and their primary teachers' colleges, renovation and equipping of
facilities; improvements in the quality of teacher education curricula, text
books, and instructional materials; staff training and development; fellowship
training abroad (3,166 mm) for up-grading and up-dating the planning,
teaching, and research skills of Faculty of Education and PTC staff and
consultant/expert services (370 mm) for staff training locally, for technical
support in curriculum and materials development, for assisting with the
institutional aspects of individual sub-projects, and for helping to arrange
twinning arrangements with other institutions, both in-country and abroad. In
support of in-service teacher training, the project would include
construction, furnishing and equipping of the proposed ERCs; equipment and
supplies for the ERDC and FRTVC to prepare textbooks and other teaching



- 25 -
materials for the in-service training activities; instructional equipment for
the In-service Training Directorate to use in implementing certain aspects of
the in-service pedagogy and foreign language training program; and technical
assistance in the form of consultants/experts (48 mm) to assist in
establishing organizational and management procedures for the Centers and in
needs assessment and planning, plus fellowship training abroad (12 mm) for
managers of the ERCs to enable them to observe other such training facilities
and learn more about their operations (Annex 14).
Improving Nana_Maent Skills and Praotioes  UB8820e2 3)
2.32        This project component, to be implemented under auspices of the
Deputy Undersecretariat for Administration, would concentrate on measures to
improve administrative efficiency and general management of the system. It
would support ;he Ministry's long-term goal of gradually shifting more
authority and responsibility to the provincial and sub-provincial levels for
managing local aspects of the education system. The key activities of this
component would involve: (a) improvements in management skills and motivation
by improving management assessment, training, and communications; (b)
organizational changes, i.e., consolidation of selected administrative units
for greater effectiveness; (c) strengthening the strategic planning and
educational research functions; (d) expanded and improved information systems
for management; and (e) improvement of research and development capabilities
in the National Center for Vo-Tech Educational Research and Development. The
Ministry intends, through this operation, to involve more of its managers, at
all levels, in key Ministry decisions, plans and operations. As managers at
the provincial and school levels become sufficiently skilled and motivated to
take on more planning and decision-making responsibility, and as the Ministry
makes appropriate changes in policies and regulations, the longer-term goal of
moving selected aspects of management to the provinces can be effectively
achieved, one goal of which would be to improve operational efficiencies in
the system.
2.33        Management Develooment.  As part of its management improvement
program, the MOE would establish a small Management Development Unit which
would provide: (a) advice on the training of entry level managers by the In-
service Training Directorate, and (b) the design, delivery, and coordination
of senior level management development activities. The unit would also have
responsibility for policy and operational decisions about trainee selection,
establishing priorities for various types and levels of management training,
analyzing the cost/benefits of such training, determining methods and
frequency of management development efforts, and coordinating career planning
for high potential managers. As development for senior managers requires more
than courses alone, training at this level would include, in addition to
courses, individual development programs suceh as secondments within the MOE,
fellowships, assignments to special task forces or other activities to
reinforce training course objectives and broaden the perspective of the
manager, or to provide special learning opportunities which are not available
in the manager's regular position. Identification of specific individual
development needs, and preparation of development plans, would be made jointly
by each manager and his/her next-in-line manager with information and guidance
from a management assessment unit to be established in the MOE (para. 2.35).



- 26 -
2.34        The Management Development Unit would operate with advice and
guidance from a specially appointed committee of managers within the Ministry.
Committee representation would consist of representatives from the various
Ministry agencies such as the Board of Education and the directorates of in-
service training, personnel, primary and secondary education, vocational
education, research and planning, etc. The Unit might appropriately be
located eventually in the Personnel Directorate or the Directorate of In-
service Teacher Training. Such a location determination would be made only
after the committee has had a chance to observe the nature of decisions being
made relative to development programs for senior managers in the Ministry.
2.35        To support the management improvement operation, a small
management assessment unit would be organized within the MOE to appraise
current skills of the Ministry's managers and management teams. This unit
would assist in: (a) identifying the personal qualities and management skills
which differentiate effective from less effective managers in the MOE; (b)
identifying each individual's training needs; and (c) improving the ability of
senior managers in the MOE to make better staff selection and promotion
decisions. In addition to providing information for improving decisions about
senior managers, the unit would assess the strengths and weaknesses of
management teams. Team assessments would be used in: (a) the design of team
training needs, (b) assembling sub-groups and leaders for different types of
management responsibilities and projects; and (c) guiding selection of
replacements for individual team members to help improve team productivity.
2.36        In further support of the management improvement effort, the
Ministry would initiate a communications Rrogram to: (a) inform managers of
all aspects of significant Ministry undertakings, such as the proposed
National Education Development Project; (b) motivate managers to support, and
assist others in understanding and supporting, the goals of the MOE projects
and programs; (c) create a mechanism for increased communications between and
among the various MOE aeencies and units; (d) motivate managers to contribute
their ideas and experiences for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of
the education system; and (e) support the goal of the MOE to shift more
responsibility for planning and decision-making to managers at the local
level. The planned communications program would be an expanded function of
the Board of Education, as the Board already provides managers with factual
information abotis MOE regulations. Effective implementation of this effort
would require the engagement of a communications specialist to help plan,
organize, and establish the program.
2.37        Research and Planning.  Special efforts would be made under this
project component to improve and strengthen capabilities of the MOE Council
for Research, Planning, and Coordination (CRPC) for: (a) designing and
conducting institutional research initiatives for underpinning the planning
process, e.g., school mapping studies, population/enrollment growth patterns,
educational funding and costs, etc.; (b) analyzing and disseminating research
results to relevant MOE groups/agencies; (c) evaluating development
alternatives; (d) recommending sectoral development priorities; (e) engaging
in long-range planning; (d) coordinating the management information system
(para. 2.38), etc. Technical assistance would be provided for consultative
support and for local training of selected key staff. The Ministry would also



- 27 -
recruit 1-2 high level research and planning staff from local 1.1iversities, on
either a permanent or a part-time basis, to assist in this important function.
2.38        Management Information.  The project would assist the MOE in
expanding and improving its management information system for greater
coordination and increased efficiency and effectiveness in managing the
sector. The system, to be operated under the CRPC, would improve and
strengthen the Ministry's planning process and initiate a first stage
devolution of planning and decision-making responsibility from the central
Ministry to the provincial directorates in order to bring them more directly
into the education management process. The system would be supported by a
computer network linked to the provincial directorates of education. Although
the computer system is managed centrally, each MOE directorate would have
access to the data unique to its specific management function and the
Directorate of Research and Planning would draw upon all information as needed
for its comprehensive planning process. Provision would be made in the
project for equipment and technical assistance to help expand and refine the
MIS as a central element of the MOE management structure. A consultant team
of management information specialists, supported by fsnds from other
resources, has been employed to review the Ministry's present information
system, analyze its management data requirements, and make recommendations for
expanding and up-dating the system. During loan negotiations, the Government
provided to the Bank the consultant team's preliminary report on developing
the MIS and its recommended time-frame for implementation.
2.39        Center for Research in Vocational-Technical Education.  This
center, while established for vocational and technical education related
activities, actually has a broader scope of assigned functions, including
administrative support for the Projects Management Unit which manages all of
the MOE's education development projects, including those financed by the
Bank. This agency is also linked to the CRPC for jointly developed and
managed activities.  Provision would be made through the project to up-date
and strengthen the Center's technical capabilities for educational data
gathering and analysis, as well as its capability for project preparation,
management, procurement and record-keeping. Basic data analysis and
processing equipment would be provided under the project to support and
strengthen this function.
2.40        In summary, the proposed project would include for this component
both equipment and technical assistance to support implementation of the
operation. Equipment would be provided for expanding and refining the
management information system and for improving management capabilities
related to other aspects of the component. Technical assistance would be
provided in the form of fellowship training abroad (321.5 mm) to up-grade key
staff in modern management techniques and procedures and consultants/experts
(135 mm) to assist in the planning and implementation of development
activities and in the local training of selected management staff (Annex 14).



- 28 -
III.  PROGRaM COSTS. VINANCING. MRNAGENENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Projeot Cost Eigtmates
3.01        Summary of Project Costs.  The total cost of the proposed project
is estimated to be TL 407.5 billion or US$177.2 million equivalent, of which
US$90.2 million would be foreign exchange. The estimated cost distribution by
project objective is shown in Table 3.01, while the summary of cost estimates
by category of expenditure appears in Table 3.02.
Table 3.01: Summary of Cost Estimates by Project Objective
(TL Billion)         (USS Million)        %   % of
Project Objective          Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total   For. Base
Improve Quality of Education
Curric. & Textbook Dev.      8.8   10.7   19.5    3.8    4.7    8.5    55       6
Instr. Materials Dev.        2.2   20.6   22.8    0.9    9.0    9.9    91       7
Curr. Lab. Schools/Testing 47.3   32.8   80.1   20.6   14.2   34.8    41    25
Computer Exp. Schools        3.2    5.5    8.7    1.4    2.4    3.8    63       3
Sub-Total                61.5   69.6  131.1   26.7   30.3   57.0    53    42
Imorove Teacher Education
Pre-Service Teacher Educ.  14.5   48.5   63.0    6.3   21.1   27.4    77    20
In-service Teacher Educ.   74.7    9.0   83.7   2.L5    3.9   36.4    11    27
Sub-Total                89.2   57.5  146.7   38.8   25.0   63.8    39    47
Improve Management & Admin.
Mgmt. Devel/Pl'ng/MIS        3.2   29.8   33.0    1.4   13.0   14.4    90    11
Vo-Tech. R&D Center          0.2    3.6    3.8    01    .5        1.6    94     1
Sub-Total                 3.4   33.4   36.8    1.5   14.5   16.0    91    12
Total: BASELINE COSTS      154.1  160.5  314.6   67.0   69.8  136.8    51   100
Physical Contingencies  15.4   16.1   31.5    6.7    7.0   13.7    51    10
Price Contingencies      30.4   31.0   61.4   13.3   13.4   26.7    50    20
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        199.9  207.6  407.5   87.0   90.2  177.2    51   130
3.02        A summary of project cost estimates by category of expenditure is
portrayed in Table 3.02. These costs include estimated expenditures for new
construction of the education resource centers and school and classroom
renovations; instructional and information technology equipment; instructional
materials, costs for book copyrights and translations, and technical
assistance (fellowships and consultative services).



- 29 -
Table 3.02: Summary of Cost Estimates by Category of Expenditure
Implementing Agency/          (lT  Billion)          (USS Million)        %   % of
Proiect Obiective          Local Foreign Total  Local Foreian Total   For. Base
Ministry of Education
Construction/Renovation    95.5    ---   95.5   41.5    ---   41.5    --    38
Classroom Furniture         18.7    ---   18.7    8.1    ---    8.1    --        8
Instructional Equipment      9.6   86.5   96.1    4.2   37.6   41.8    90    38
Instructional Materials      9.1    8.9   18.0    3.9    3.9    7.8    50        7
Technical Assistance
Consultant Services        ---    9.3    9.3    ---    4.1    4.1   ICO        4
Fellowships                0.6    7.3    7.9    0.3    3.2    3.5    95        3
Local Training               0.9    ---    0.9    0.4    ---    0.4              0
Development Support          5.3    ---    5.3  _ 3__22  -- -    23        -     2
MOE Base Cost            139.7  112.0  251.7   60.7   48.8  109.5    45   100
Physical Contingencies  14.0   11.2   25.2    6.1    4.9   11.0    45    10
Price Contingencies      27.    21.6   49.2   12.0    9.4  421        45    20
MOE Sub-Total for Project 181.3  144.8  326.1   78.8   63.1  141.9    45   130
Council of Higher Education
Construction/Renovation      3.7    ---    3.7    1.6    ---    1.6    --        6
Classroom Furniture          2.1    ---    2.1    0.9    ---    0.9    --        3
Instructional Equipment      1.9   16.6   18.5    0.8    7.2    8.0    90    29
Instructional Materials      0.2    1.0    1.2    0.1    0.4    0.5    80        2
Technical Assistance
Consultant Services        0.2    5.8    6.0    0.1    2.5    2.6   100    10
Fellowships                5.4   25.1   30.5    2.4   10.9   13.3    95    49
Local Training               0.9    --      0.9    0.4    ---    0.4    --       1
YOK Base Cost             14.4   48.5   62.9    6.3   21.0   27.3    77   100
Physical Contingencies   1.4    4.9    6.3    0.6    2.1    2.7    77    10
Price Contingencies       2.8    9.4   12.2    1.3    4.0    5.3    77    20
YOK Sub-Total for Project  18.6   62.8   81.4    8.2   27.1   35.3    77   130
Total: BASELINE COSTS      154.1  160.5  314.6   67.0   69.8  136.8    51   100
Physica: Contingencies  15.4   16.1   31.5    6.7    7.0   13.7    51    10
Price Cc.ntingencies     30.4   31.0   61.4   13 3   13.4   26.7    50    20
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        199.9  207.6  407.5   87.0   90.2  177.2    51   130
3.03        Basis of Cost Estimates.  Construction cost estimates for the ERDC
and the four ERCs are based on a review of MOE plans and recently awarded
iontracts for construction of similar facilities in the involved regions.
Cost estimates for renovation of classrooms in schools participating in
curriculum and materials testing and evaluation and in computer education are
based on MOE average costs for recent renovations of this nature.   Equipment,
furniture, and materials development cost estimates are based on detailed



- 30 -
analyses of unit costs and requirements for the sub-programs described in
Chapter II. Technical assistance costs (about 16X of project total) are
estimated at an average of US$11,000 per man-month of specialist services and
US$3,500 per month of fellowship training abroad. These estimates are based
on recent costs for comparable TA in the Industrial Schools Project (Ln 2536-
TU) and the Second Industrial Training Project (Ln 4922-TU).  The staff month
costs of foreign specialists include housing, relocation costs, salaries,
office services, fees, overheads, and recruitment costs.
3.04        Foreign Exchange Com,onent.  On the assumption that construction
and furniture, local speciaiists, and local training would have little or no
foreign costs, the foreign exchange component was estimated as follows: (a)
instructional materials - 70a; (L) instructional and materials production
equipment - 90X; (c) foreign specialists - 100X; and (d) fellowship training
abroad- 95%. These percentages were determined by assuming that instructional
and informational systems equipment and the majority of development materials
would be imported.
3.05        Contingency Allowances.  Project costs include a physical
contingency allowance equal to 10 percent of the estimated cost of all project
items. Price contingencies between the time of negotiations (February 1990)
and the end of project implementation (December 1996) are estimated to be US$
26.7 million equivalent, or 17 percent of base costs plus physical
contingencies. Total contingencies represent 30% of the base cost. The
estimated price contingency allowances for imported goods and services differ
from world-wide contingency estimates, as indicated in Table 3.03, because
Turkey's trade pattern is oriented predominately toward Europe.  By expressing             I
both foreign and local price contingencies in US$ equivalencies, it has been
assumed that the present policy of adjusting the Lira exchange rate to reflect
the exchange differential between Turkey and its major trading partners will
continue. The Lira has devalued in accordance with this pattern since 1980
and is now adjusted daily on a crawling-peg system. Thus, uncertainties about
large local cost escalations are expected to be off-set by exchange rate
adjustments to maintain purchasing power parity.
3.06        Customs. Duties. and Taxes.  Project costs would include an
estimated US$ 10.1 million in indirect taxes on locally procured civil works
and furniture. Project equipment would be imported free of taxes.
3.07        Project Uni.t Costs.  Renovation costs for the university faculties
of education as well as the MOE schools to be involved in field testing of
curricula and computer education programs relate exclusively to renovation of
existing facilities; therefore, calculations of construction costs per student
place are not applicable. Also, because the ERCs will function as
multipurpose facilities for in-service training arnd support of education
research and de-elopment and because the ERDC will be used for administrative
purposes, calculations of construction costs per student place would be
inappropriate in these cases as well. Instructional equipment to be provided
for the university faculties of education and primary teachers' colleges is
for program up-grading and supplemental to existing equipment; however, it is
estimated to cost an average of US$1,230 and US$500, respectively, per student
place. Equipment to be provided for the MOE laboratory schools involved in
field testing curriculum materials is predominately teacher-use related so



- 31 -
does not lend itself to calculations of per student costs. On the other hand,
equipment and software to be provided for the computer education program is
estimated to cost about US$1,000 per student place.
3.08        Recurrent Cost ImDlications.  Because this proposed project is for
auality and efficiency enhancement rather than expansion of the system, there
will be no additional teachers required so the incremental recurrent costs to
be! incurred are relatively minimal. Incremental recurrent costs for the MOE
would be generated by: (a) additional staff for the ERDC to augment those who
will be brought in from other directorates within the Ministry; (b) increased
staff (2-3 individuals) for the Project Management Unit which is already
functioning for other projects; (c) travel and subsistence as required for
national subject panels which will assist in curriculum development; (d)
consumable supplies for operation of the ERDC; (e) additional costs for higher
quality textbooks; and (f) local travel for field testing the newly developed
curriculum materials.  The total additional recurrent (base) costs to be
generated by these items for HOE will be in the order of US$6 million
equivalent per year (mostly for personuel salaries and increased textbook                  F
costs).  This sum represents less than one percent of MOE's total recurrent
budget for 1988. The same situation exists for YOK whose project component
deals strictly with quality enhancement rather than expansion of program
capacity. In the case of YOK, the additional recurrent costs would be
generated by: (a) increased staffing (4 staff) for t.he project management unit
to be established in the Secretariat for Teacher Education; (b) travel and
subsistence for specialist panels assisting in the development of teacher
education curricula; and (c) local travel in support of project
implementation. The total incremental recurrent cost to be generated for YOK
by these items is estimated to be aboutt US$1 million equivalent per year, or
less than one percent of YCK's recurrent budget for 1988. Total incremental
costs to be generated by the broader sectoral development program (including
the proposed project) are expected to be in the order of about 4% per year
(para. 1.32).
B. Prolset PinancinaT
3.09        The proposed Bank loan of US$90.2 million would finance 100% of
the project's foreign exchange component. The Government would finance the
balance of project costs. In order to accelerate project start-up and initial
disbursements, retroactive financing would be provided to cover technical
assistance costs for launchtng ERDC activities (about US$100,000) and for
initiating the Y6K pre-service teacher education program (about US$ 100,000)
between January 1, 1990 and the Loan Effectiveness date. Project financing
would be in accordance with Table 3.04.



- 32 -
Table 3.04: Financial Plan by Disbursement Category
(US$ millions)
Percent
Government            Proj.  of Bank
Categorv of Expenditure             MOE    YOK    Total  IBRD  Total  Financ.
Civil Works                          53.7    2.1   55.8    --    55.8    --
Furniture                            10.4    1.2   11.6    --    11.6    --
Equipment                             5.4    1.1    6.5   58.1   64.6    90
Materials                             5.3    0.1    5.4    5.5   10.9    50
Technical Assistance (Foreign)        0.2    0.8    1.0   26.6   27.6    96
Local Training, Cons., & Fellows.    0.6    3.0    3.6    --      3.6    --
Development Support (MOE Panels)      3.1           3.1     ._3.1 
Totals          78.7    8.3   87.0   90.2  177.2    51
C. Project Management an4 mnRelmentation
Managerment
3.10        The proposed project would be administered as two separate but
related components under two agencies: the Ministry of Education and the
Council of Higher Education, each managing its respective sub-programs as
described in Chapter II. General project support services and day-to-day
coordination of the overall operation would be provided by individual PCUs in
each agency. The Ministry of Education PCU, currently responsible for
implementing the Industrial Schools Project (Ln. 2536-TU) and the Non-Formal
Training Project (Ln. 2776-TU) and for coordinating all other MOE projects,
would be strengthened with the provision of 2-3 additional professional staff
to provide coordination and technical support for this proposed project
through the functions described below (para 3.11). The MOE PCU Director
reports to the Undersecretary. The Council of Higher Education PCU, to be
established in the Y6K Secretariat of Teacher Education, would be managed by
the Executive Secretary, assisted by four implementation specialists. The
four PCU specialist positions would be as follows: physical facilities
specialist, procurement specialirt, curriculum and materials development
specialist, and a staff training and development specialist. It was agreed
during Negotiations that the establishment of the Y6K Project Coordinating
Unit and formal appointment of the four specialists to coordinate renovation
of physical facilities, procurement of goods and services, curriculum and
materials development, and staff training and development would be a condition
of disbursement for the YoK project component (para. 5.03). The Y6K PCU
Director would report administratively to the Councilman for Teacher
Education. Each PCU would operate with a proiect advisory committee (para.
3.12) to review and advise on policies and overall project operations being
carried out by the implementing agencies and their respective PCUs.
3.11        The Proiect Coordination Units of the two agencies would have the
following responsibilities, as they relate to each PCU's project components:
(a) coordination of recruitment for project technical assistance; (b)
coordinating receipt and evaluation of sub-project proposals from the
!



- 33 -
university Faculties of Education, as well as IDPs from the PTCs (YOK only);
(c) organization of equipment lists and specifications; (d) coordination and
management of equipment procurement; (e) monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
on project implementation progress; (f) collection and analysis of project
related data as necessary; (g) logistical and other project support services;
(h) financial accounting of project expenditures; and (i) liaison with other
Government and external agencies, including the World Bank. (With respect to
procurement of technical assistance and equipment for the Y6K component, the
PCU would draw upon YOK's now experienced Industrial Technician Training Unit,
which was established to implement the first Industrial Training Project (Loan
2399-TU) and recently strengthened for implementing the Second Industrial
Training Project (Loan 2922-TU)).
3.12        Two groject advisory committees, each having representation from
the MOE, YOK, SPO, other Government agencies, and the private sector, would
periodically review, 2-3 times per year, project progress to ensure adherence
to project objectives and sectoral policies, as well as effective coordination
of implementation activities, in the respective implementing agencies. The
advisory committees would be: for YOK - the recently established HCTEE (para.
1.12); the MOE committee is yet to be appointed. During loan negotiations,
the Government provided evidence of the MOE having established the MOE p-roject
advisory committee and formally appointed all of its members.
3.13        Duties and responsibilities of the two project advisory
committees, would include but not be limited to the following: (a) The
advisory committee for the MOE would be responsible for reviewing activities
of the ERDC relative to the development, testing, and distribution of                     i
curriculum and instructional materials, as well as addressing the curriculum
implications for instructional equipment and facilities, teacher education,
other education quality related issues, adequacy of project response to these
concerns, etc. The committee would also review developments in the in-
service teacher education and education management components of the project
and, in all cases make formal recommendations to the Undersecretary for
improvements, as necessary, in project implementation; and (b) the advisory
committee for YoK (the HCTEE) would be responsible for addressing issues
related to:  determining and recommending measures for balancing the demand
and supply of trained teachers in the various teaching disciplines, quality of
pre-service and in-service teacher training, adequacy of project response to
these items, etc.
ImDlementation
3.14        Imolementation Procedures.  Development activities of the MOE
Rroiect component (quality improvement in primary and secondary education, in-
service teacher training, and management development) would be implemented by
the Education Research and Development Center, In-service Teacher Training
Directorate, and the Administration Department, respectively. Project
activities under the YOK comDonent (pre-service teacher education) would be
implemented basically by the participating institutions, with selected aspects
(curriculum and materials development) to be conducted centrally by the
consulting team under guidance of the PCU. Overall coordination, project
logistics, and support services for each agency would be provided by their                -
respective PCUa.



- 34 -
3.15        Two different arrangements would be employed for the Y8K pre-
service training component. Tne primary teachers' colleges portion would be
relatively straightforward in that the colleges have basically the same
teacher education curriculum, textbooks, instructional materials,
instructional equipment, etc. and their staff development needs are virtually
identical. These aspects of the colleges would continue to be similar among
all of the institutions, as there is less need for diversity at this level of
teacher training. All project activities for the primary colleges would thus
be implemented as a unit or "single package" operation with appropriate input
and guidance from the PTESC (para. 2.22) and support services from the
Council's PCU. The Faculties of Education secondary teacher training
component would be implemented as individual institutional sub-projects
(para.2.24) under contract with the respective participating Faculties
(para.3.16).  Common elements of the various sub-projects for specific subject
area groupings, e.g., curriculum and materials development and staff training,
would be implemented centrally by a consultant team with input and guidance
from the STESC and support services from the PCU (para. 2.25).
3.16        The YoK PCU would enter into contract with each of the primary
teachers' colleges and participating faculties of education, specifying the
development activities to be supported under project funding, to ensure
institutional provision of required counterpart funds allocated by SPO/YdK for
the agreed facility renovation, equipment installation, and personnel support.
The university/Faculty of Education would also agree in the contract to
implement the up-dated or newly developed curricula/programs, the basic
guidelines of which would be prepared jointly by the respective Steering
Committees (paras. 2.22 and 2.25) and the consultant team, with input from a
subject area panel (for each major area of study) comprising a subject area
representative from each of the Faculties particip4ting in the development of
that area (2.24).
3.17        Architectural Designs.  Designs and construction drawings for the
ERC to be located at Hasanoglan and for construction/renovation of the ERC
facilities to be located at Istanbul and Isparta have bcen contracted to a
single architectural firm in Ankara. Drawings for renovation of the facility
in Beseveler (Ankara) to be used for the ERDC have not been commissioned yet
because the actual amount of renovation to be needed has not been decided;
however, it is anticipated that the same architectural firm will be used for
this facility as well. Plans for renovation of the building selected to house
the ERDC and for the MOE curriculum and computer laboratory schools, as the
latter are in most cases expected to be relatively minor, will be prepared by
regional units of the MOE Directorate of School Construction in the provinces
in which the respective schools are located. During loan negotiatlons, the
Government provided to the Bank a preliminary set of construction design
drawings for the proposed ERCs.
3.18        Maintenance.  The Government has a good track record for
maintaining school and administrative facilities and its policies and
practices in this regard are expected to continue.
3.19        Environmental Imoact.  The environmental impact of the proposed
project is expezted to be neutral. The new construction will be primarily for



- 35
classrooms and for administrative facilities. And, as the sites are located
in major cities, the construction would conform to local building codes. The
proposed school and university renovations would comprise only inside work
with no negative implications for the environment. Also, local school
renovations would, where necessary, correct any problems which may exist with
sanitary facilities. Environmental awareness would be included as a concern
for the new curriculum and materials to be developed under the proposed
project.
D. Project Procurement Arrangements
3.20        Civil Works and Goods.  Items suitable for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May 1985), and
would account for about 90% of the total value of equipment. The remaining
lOX of the equipment items would be suitably packaged for procurement other
than ICB. Invitations to bid on equipment would be grouped by agency (MOE and
YOK) into pcckages of items which could typically be furnished by one
supplier. Contracts for civil works and furniture, to be financed from local
funds, would be awarded to local contractors and manufacturers in accordance
with local procedures.
3.21        In comparison of bids for goods to be procured through ICB,
domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15X, or the
existing customs duty, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. of competing
imports. Under ICB procedures, invitations to bid and proposed award of
contracts would be reviewed by the Bank prior to final award decision. It is
estimated that this review would cover all ICB procured equipment and selected
instructional materials financed by the Bank (US$62.1 million). All other
procurement documentation would be subject to selective post award reviews by             L
the Bank. Contracts for civil works and goods would be awarded as indicated
in Table 3.05.
3.22        Procurement of Technical Assistance.  Due to the diversity of
project components, the required fellowship training and technical specialist
services would be grouped into packages of services which are similar in
nature. The MOE, for example, would likely have three packages dealing with;
(a) curriculum, text books, and instructional materials and equipment, (b) in-
service teacher education, and (c) administration and management. Fellowships
and technical specialist services for YOK would probably be grouped into two
packages: (a) primary teacher education and (b) preparation of secondary
teachers and other education personnel. All technical assistance would be
procured in accordance with "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", dated August 1981 .
Technical assistance contracts would be awarded as shown in Table 3.05.



- 36 -
Table 3.05: Procurement Arrangements 1/
(Total Costs of Proposed Project Components Including Contingencies)
-------- US$ Millions-------
Procurement Method
Project Element                                   ICB       Other    Total Cost
Constructibn and Furniture                        0.0        67.4        67.4
(0.0)      (0.0)       (0.0)
Equipment                                        58.1         6.5        64.6
(56.1)      (2.0)      (58.1)
Materials                                         4.4         6.5        10.9
(3.5)      (2.0)       (5.5)
Technical Asst.                                   0.0        27.6        27.6
(0.0)     (26.6)      (26.6)
Training and Development                          0.0         6.7         6.7
Support                                        (0.0)       (0.0)       (0.0)
Total Cost                                       62.5       114.7       177.2
Bank Financing                                  (60.1)      (30.1)      (90.2)
j/    Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
The exceptions to ICB included under "Other" above would be as follows:
(a)   Government financed construction/renovation and furniture for: (a)
the four ERCs and the ERDC (US$38.9 million), (b) curriculum and
computer laboratory schools (US$25.2 million), and (c) the 25
primary teachers' colleges and 10 faculties of education (US$3.3
million) would be carried out in accordance with local procedures
which are designed to ensure economy and efficiency.
(b)   Government financed equipment manufactured locally (US$4.5
million) would be procured in accordance with local procei"s-es.
(c)   Sundry items of equipment not exceeding US$50,000 for each
contract and which in the aggregate would not exceed US$2 million
equivalent could be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three
quotations in accordance with local procurement procedures to be
acceptable to the Bank.
(d)   Contracts for intellectual properties such as text books,
copyrights, computer software, translation rights, and re-
printing, (US$4.5 million) would be awarded following negotiations
with such property owners.
(e)   Contracts for educational materials packages each estimated to
cost less than US$200,000 equivalent and not expected to interest
foreign suppliers because of the variety of goods, would be



- 37 -
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally,
using local competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to
the Bank. The aggregate of contract values for goods procured in
this manner would not exceed US$2 million equivalent.
(f)   Technical assistance (overseas fellowships and consultative
services), estimated to cost US$27.6 million, would be procured as
described in para. 3.22.
3.23        Implementation Schedule.  This proposed project is in a state of
preparation which would permit timely implementation because: (a) all project
building sites are already owned by the Government; (b) preliminary designs
for renovation ani construction of the ERCs have been approved by the Bank and
work on construction drawings was initiated by the contracted architectural
firm during appraisal; (c) preliminary equipment lists are completed for about
75% of equipment to be procured; (d) technical assistance requirements have
been fully defined; and (e) draft terms of reference for the technical
assistance have been prepared. The loan disbursement profile for the country
is six years (from date of Board presentation); however, due to the complexity
of the project and some novel development activities, it would be implemented
over a seven year period (1990-1996), in accordance with the Implementation
Schedule in Annex 11. The proposed loan is expected to be disbursed over a
period of about seven and one-half years (Annex 12), which is reasonable given
the advanced stage of preparation and the fact that both beneficiary agencies
have now developed implementation expertise based on their prior experience
with World Bank projects. Project completion is planned for December 31, 1996
and disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1997.
3.24        Disbursements.    Disbursements for equipment (estimated at
US$58.1 million equivalent), materials (US$5.5 million equivalent), and
technical assistance (US$26.6 million equivalent), would be made against:
(a)   Equipment and Materials: (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for directly imported items; (ii) 100 percent of ex-factory
expenditures for locally manufactured items; and (iii) 80 percent
of local expenditures for other items procured locally.
(b)   Specialist services and overseas fellowships: 100 percent of total
expenditures.
3.25        Disbursements on contracts for goods and services exceeding
US$50,000 equivalent would be made against normal documentation.
Disbursements for contracts at or below that level would be made on the basis
of Statements of Expenditures avail&ble for examination by Bank supervision
missions. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government would
establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, a Special Account with two sub-accounts in the Central Bank of
Turkey: one sub-account would be assigned to the MOE for project items under
its jurisdiction and the other assigned to YoK for project items which it will
implement. Upon Loan Effectiveness, the World Bank would make an initial
deposit to the Special Accounts equivalent to US$3.0 million for the MOE and
US$2.0 million for YoK (the average disbursement over a four-month period).
The Special Accounts would be replenished as appropriate in accordance with



- 38 -
established Bank guidelines. Withdrawal applications would be supported by
appropriate documentation.
3.26        Accounts and Audits.  The Project Implementation Units of both MOE
and YOK would maintain separate accounts for their respective project
components and would prepare and provide to the Bank semi-annual reports on
implementation progress toward achievement of the project objectives, along
with a financial statement of project expenditures. Project accounts,
including the Special Accounts (para. 3.25), would be audited in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank", dated March 1982. During Loan Negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that the project accounts would be audited
annually by the Treasury Controllers Department and that the resu)ting audit
report in such scope and detail as the Bank may reasorably request, including
a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against certified
statements of expenditure, will be provided to the Bank within six months of
the end of the Government's fiscal year (para. 5.01 (g)).
E. Project OuDervision and Evaluation
3.27        Supervision.  Bank supervision will concentrate on in-depth
reviews of the policy framework for sectoral improvements, the consistency of
sub-program activities with agreements reached during appraisal, performance
of the implementing groups, and assessment of emerging needs for adjustments
to program parameters. The bases for Bank supervision will be semiannual
progress reports and the annual evaluation of project activities (para. 3.28)
by the two PCUs with review comments by their respective project advisory
committees. This will be supplemented by a review of project expenditures and
availability of financial resources (Annex 15), plus substantive discussions
with groups implementing the various components and discussions with higher
echelon officials of the two beneficiary agencies. During Loan Negotiations,
the Government agreed to an annual Government-Bank review of project
implementation with a view to agreeing on resource requirements and other
actions necessary for the subsequent year to achieve the project objectives
(para. 5.02).
3.28        Evaluation.  Implementation of the proposed project, and the
extent to which it is achieving the stated objectives, would be reviewed and
evaluated annually and upon its completion. A joint Bank-Government mid-term
review of the development program would be conducted about three years into
the project as a basis for determining implementation progress and for making
mid-course adjustments, if and as necessary, in project procedures. The
Government agreed during negotiations to provide assurance that a plan for
annual assessments of implementation progress and a final evaluation of the
project will be jointly developed by the two project coordination units and
presented no later than December 31, 1990 for Bank review and comment (para.
5.01 (h)).
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.01        The proposed project would be the first step in establishing
appropriate standards of quality in the education sector to raise the level of



- 39 -
human resources as required for achievement of its national development
objectives. It would be a major undertaking in institution building and for
promoting quality education to enable the country to compete in the World
Market. And finally, it would improve and strengthen education services,
i.e., extend the school year by about 14X, extend basic education from 5 to 8
years, require primary teachers to be trained at the university level, promote
teacher participation in refresher and up-date training, and implement
measures to improve cost effectiveness in the education system, including a
shift of textbook printing to the private sector, and the gradual delegation
of more planning and decision making authority to the provincial levels.
B. Risks
4.02        There is the risk of budget allocations not keeping pace with the
proposed new emphasis on high quality education. However, the education
sector has received an increase in total budget allocations during each of the
past three years, the Treasury has indicated that this is a high priority
investment project for the Government, and the recurren. costs of the proposed
operation are relatively low, so this risk is considered to be minimal. There
is a risk that political pressures may make it difficult to take appropriate
measures for bringing about operational and financial efficiencies in the
sector, i.e., declaring teaching positions in some schools redundant where
appropriate, re-deployment of teachers and administrators from areas of excess
personnel to locations/schools where shortages exist, etc. However, present
procedures already recognize the need to provide special incentives to
educational personnel to induce them to work in less attractive areas of the
country, and hence the risk of political pressure is considered minimal.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOPImMNDATION8
5.01        During Negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)   the policy adopted by MOE requiring teachers to participate in a
two-week intensive/refresher course (as a minimum) at least every
five years would be formally implemented under the project (para.
1.34);
(b)   the BOE's initial curriculum policy review and recommendations
would be completed no later than September 1, 1990 (para. 2.04);
(c)   the MOE would make an assessment of the selected curriculum
laboratory schools' and computer experimental schools' facilities
and that local funds would be provided to renovate and furnish the
respective schools in accordance with recommendations for meeting
mutually agreed classroom standards (para. 2.09);
(d)   The Government agreed during Negotiations that the studies on up-
grading physical quality of textbooks and implementing a textbook
rental and/or a used book re-sale scheme, along with the education
studies described in para. 2.18, would be completed by June 30,
1992, or other date as warranted by circum.tances (para. 5.01
(d)).



- 40 -
(e)   no less than three qualified specialists in tests and measurements
would be recruited by September 1, 1991 to serve in the testing
and evaluation division of the ERDC (para. 2.17);
(f)   the Primarv Teacher Education Steering Committee and the Secondary
Education Steering Committee would be formally established by
September 1, 1990 (para. 2.22);
(g)   the project accounts would be audited annually by the Auditor
General's office and that the resulting audit report in such scope
and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a
separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against
certified statements of expenditure, would be provided to the Bank
within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year
(para. 3.26); and
(h)   a plan for annual assessments of implementation progress and a
final evaluation of the project would be developed by the two
project coordination units and presented no later than December
31, 1990 for Bank review and comment (para. 3.28).
5.02        The Government agreed during Negotiations to an annual Government-
Bank review of project implementation with a view to agreeing on resource
requirements and other actions necessiry for the subsequent year to achieve
the project objectives (para. 3.27).
5.03        It was agreed during N 6otiations that the establishment of the
YOK Project Coordinating Unit and iormal appointment of the four qualified
specialists to coordinate renovation of physical facilities, procurement of
goods and services, curriculum and materials development, and staff training
and development would be a condition of disbursement for the YOK project
component (para. 3.10).
5.04        The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$90.2 million equivalent to the Government of the Republic of Turkey.



RPIJLI C OF TIURKE
NATIONA M 1DUCATION DIVELOPME3NT PROJRCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Structure of the Education System
Phlmaty                    LoW.e SecondOW                         scon sye
Genercl Lycee
Vocatio c Lcee
Techniced tycce                           UWmf (4 ymi
ANADOLU Lse                    .uvWsy (2 Veotsl 
Nanformot Vondlonnl
A pp  TrO   C onteus               T n*- nt   C en ters
* Practdcl Trade Schools
*  Ptc -d     CeOntW
* PctIcal TuKad  Schod for Gui    _
* Acut lecmical trangCenter                            _
* Comce & Tlusm  Centel
*Makt Center
Grad 1       2        3      a       5         o       7       a            9                                                 30  4    W  2  Q  14
|  I    < '  I       I--~~~~~ i   I               I      -I                 I                         I   .I            I      I
Age   6        7       8              10        11     12       13          14       15     16                         I?      l8       19      20
wow  BMW -30495



- 42 -                          Annex 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKE
NATIONAL  MDUCTION DEVELOMENT PROJ=C
TAnn APPRAISAL REPORT
Education S&irr Data (01D): Public and Private (1987/88) 1/
_____~~~~~~~~ -- -- -                                   - _ ____-  -  _______ -------_
Type of                 Number of    Number of   S of      Number of   Stu-Tea.
School                  Schools 2j   Students    Age Gp.  Teachers    Ratio V
Formal Fducation
Pre-School                3,237        103.185       7         6,169       17
Primary                  50,457      6,880,304      97       220,943       31
Middle                     5,731     2,091,078      56        42,404       49
Secondary (General)        1,308       636,242                50,737       13
(Science)           7          1,579                  197         8
of     (Anatolia)         98         45,493      17        4,666        10
to     (Teacher)          28         10,841                  942        12
it     (Evening)          10          3,072                   89        35
Sub-tot. (Gen. Ed.)    60,876      9,771,794      -       326,147        -
Vocational (Secondary)    1,019        382,614      16        30,893       12
Religious  (Secondary)       342        87,972      xx        11,787        7
Spec. Educ.(Hand'capd)         7           544      -             57       10
Total (Pormal Educ.)   62,244    10,242,924       -        368,884       -
Non-Fomal Bducation       2,466      1,480,781      -         12,325      120
Grand Total            64,710    11,723,705       -        381,209       --
.1/   Source of data: Ministry of Education unpublished figures for 1987/88.
2/   There is some duplication of actual school facility count; i.e., some
pre-primary schools operated by vocational school child-care programs,
some middle schools administered in .secondary schools, and some non-
formal schools operating in other school facilities; however, each
maintains its individual identity under a separate administration.
3/    National averages; frequently range up to 60-80 and 50-60, respectively,
for middle and secondary schrols in densely populated urban areas.



IPULIC OF TREY
NA INA EUCTION DEVELOPMEN PROmC
STAIP APRAMISAL RSEPO
Orzanz&tionajL Structure of-the &Mistrz of Education
§b~~~~~~~~~rr    counwcil or'
Legal Mvia                Puplic Deletion 004 ~ ~ ~ gduttio
CH;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Avsr to th    ml - -    l                                                              i|hr t
I                                                                                                    a   P     s I
era    rtoIrt                                                      m e  - --  f   Iducation
PbyeWoat   lc tio                                             - 
Legal Advisors                                             itn n
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Pe --   -  | -r
Dlrf~~~~~~~~~ent torate| tot14l xtofs
5  oeera  Diectote  f||Ceprtxent of                       Deata   t >etms
F e ^ * ¢rwr * _ _ FtnQ,,n,¢^tal A,f,air,                                3       ,,   anS uiigftt8 n"
"^   D1   wetorat of r - .... [D~~~~~~hmameg^tmnt of Neatth 
MPOrtOmOnt of Hi*w  Rd.-of Bduestlon Abro M  Depasotc nt of etooiScrtI
-oteat tof--trlaate                                   Sa j   td.
|1duct,ion Insiuzp                      «n,  sc 
u m   Dlrectormth of            *    Cen*DIV.o  Highe!         E       Ofctnlott of Educationl   1       Provinclona1l and 8ub-Provin b
phyica  af_ _t=o                                                                                           01r. as  ttee|  ¢o fl or,lmat.2d.yotb}
r  naapra



Annex 4
- 44 -
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUION DEVELOPMENPROJECT
STAFF APERAISAL RUEIT
Primarr Teacher Training Colleaes. Enrollments. and Graduates ./
Name of             Teacher Trg.           Enrollments          Graduates
University          College                 (1987/88)             (1988)
__ __ __ __ __ __ __  __ __ __ __   -- __  _ -- - - -   -_______________________________--
Arkeniz:               Burdur                1166                  373
Ataturk Univ.            Agri                 818                  337
Erzincan                815                  272
Cukurova Univ:          Hatay                 794                  384                    -
Adana                214                  -!
Dicle Univ:             Siirt                 688                  345
Diyarbakir                215                   53
Dokuz Bylul Univ:     Demirci                 758                  364
Denizli                937                  498
Izmir                 46                   -
Gazi Univ:               Bo'Lu              1,113                  400
Kastamonu                979                  495
Kirsehir                921                  456
Kiz Sanat (Art Educ.)    519                  253
Karadeniz Univ:   Yuksekokulu                  -                   ---
Giresun              1,073                  325
Marmara Univ:     Yuksekokulu                 207                   26
Ondokuz Univ:          Amasya                 509                  285
Samsun                245                   79
Selcuk Univ:            Nigde                 910                  412
Kiz Sanat (Art Educ.)    591                  299
Trakya Univ:        Canakkale               1,052                  430
Uludag Univ:            Bursa                 315                  135
Yuzuncu Yil Univ.                             662                  257
Totals                                     15,547                6,478
J/ Source of Data: The 1987-19IR8 Academic Year Higher Education
Statistics, OSYM.



Annex 5
- 45-
REPUELIC OE TXURKE
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEELOPMEN  PROJECT
STAFF APP&RAISAL5RIB=
Pacul zy-of Bducation Bnrollments. Graduates. and Teaching Staff 16/
Name of                   Enrollments          Teaching          Graduates
University                 ('87-88)            Staff 2/            (1988)
Anadolu                      1,028                 45                 142
.............................................................................
Ankara                       1,106                 34                261
Ataturk                      4,816                 74              1,148
Bogazici                       701                 11                  4
Cukurova                       660                 32                140
Dicle                        1,731                 54                339
Dokuz Bylul                  2,721                146                600
Gazi                         4,623                246                936
Hacettepe                    1,947                 44                 94
Inonu                          377                 15                 11
Karadeniz                    1,382                 49                191
Marmara                      3,909                175                799                 B
Ondokuz Mayis                1,920                 80                542
Orta Dogu Tek                1,450                 38                 40
Selcuk                       2,471                 97                667
Uludag (Bursa)               1,403                 53                261
Uludag (N. B.)               1,410                 49                292
Totals                      33,655              1,084              6,467
X] Source of Data: The 1987-1988 Academic Year Highor Education Statistics,
OSYM. (Does not include data from PTCs).
2/ Total teaching staff, excluding staff assistants and not considering
partial time allocations for research and other institutional assignments.



Annex 6
- 46--                                        Page  I of 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATIONI  VELOPUENT PROCT
STAFF APPRAISAL RUMOR
FuAding of Educational 3erwices
Table 1: Trends in Total Public Education Experditures, 1980-88
Total Public  Total govt.   Total Educatioi.
Total          Education      budget as a   Expenditures as X of
GNP       Govt. budget   Expenditures  share of GNP  ------------------.-
Year   (1968 prices)  (1968 prices)  (1968 prices)         X        Total govt.
(million TL)   (million TL)   (million TL)                  budget             GNP
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............. ........................ .... ..... .. .............................. ..........................................
1980         206097           51924          7074        25.2          13.6           3.4
1981         214661           50390          6306        23.5          12.5           2.9
1982         224553           42622          5789        19.0          13.6           2.6
1983         231790           52714          6805        22.7          12.9           2.9
1984         244877           50588          6355        20.7          12.6           2.6
1985         257528           50130          6241        19.5          12.4           2.4
1986         278802           59145          6768        21.2          11.4           2.4
1987         297801           67815          8288        22.8          12.2           2.8
1988         321198           69455          8h92        21.6          12.2           2.6
Source: Ministry of Finance Turkey
Table II: Budget of the Ministry of Education, 1980-88 (1968 prices) tmillion TL)
.... .... ............ ...................... ........ .............. . ................................................................... .........
Recurrent       Personnel
as a share       Salaries
Year       Investment       Transfer      Recurrent         Total  of Total         as a share
Expenditures ot Recurrent
............ ..................... .... ..... .. ............................ ...................................... ... .....................................
1980            517              53          3325            3896         85.4           93.5
1981            701              94          3765            4560         82.6           92.6
1982            651              87          3931            4669        84.2            91.5
1983            722             189          4866            5776        84.2            93.2
1984            668             120          377             4565         82.7           93.8
1985            587             145          3597            4329        83.1            93.5
1986            616             183          3591            4390         81.8           92.5
1987            706             255          3805            4766         79.8           93.1
1988            991             211          4571            5774         79.2           92.8
............................................................................................... .
Source: Ministry of National Education, Turkey



- 47 -                                Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Table It: Budget of the Ministr" of Education, 1980-88 (current prices) (mitLion TL)
Recurrent    Persoinel
as a share   SaLaries
Year      Investment      Transfer      Recurrent        Total   of Total     as a X of
Expenditures Recurrent
1980         11121           1149         7tS62          a2          85.4           93.5
1981         21403           2865        114915         139183        82.6          92.6
1982         25354           3381        153018         181753        84.2          91.5
1983         35938           9407        242357         287702        84.2          93.2
1984         49947           8987        282622         34SS6        82.7          93.8
1965         63230          15655        387097         465982        83.1          93.5
1986         86812          25787        505925         618524        81.8          92.5
1987        137504          49700        741400         928604        79.8          93.1
1988        308559          65813       1423000        1797372        79.2          92.8



-48                             Annex 7
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
oraanizational Structure: Educational Research and Develooment Center
MINISTE
Undersecre
F                            I                            _
Director
Educ. Research and Devel. Center  **        Publications
* * * Department
Board of Education - - - - - - - -                             Film, Radio
& T.V. Ctr.
National Subject |i -  - - - - - - - -  A visory and    I1
I Panels                                                 Coordinat. Council
Deputy Director ||Deputy Direc7tor I
Curric. 6      Technical  |       Technical  |   Admin; and      Testing &|
Publ. Div.     Serv. Div.        Devel. Div.    Fin-n. Div.    Eval. Div.
Curriculum     Book Design &    Educational    Personnel         Tests and
Specialists    Illustration      Research &                      exams.
and Text Book                    Development    Budgeting and  devel.,
Editors        Computer                          accounting      validat'n,
for        Typesetting       Implications                    stan'zat'n.
Science,                         for Resource   Procurement    & norming
Mathematics,   Specifications,  Materials
Languages,     Scheduling, &                     Contracts and  Tests and
History, etc.  Quality Control  Implications   legal affairs  exams. doc.
for                            library
including      Print Buying      Teacher Trng.
- Author comm.
- Computerized
editing of
manuscripts
- Proofreading
to press
/ ERDC Advisory and Coordinating Council Membership:
ERDC Director (Chairperson), Representative of the Board of Education,
Director of Primary Education, Director of Secondary Education, Director
of Vocational and Technical Education, Director of In-Service Teacher
Education, Director of Publications Department, Director of Film, Radio,
and Television Center, and a Professor of Curriculum Development.



- 49 -                            Annex a
REPUBLIC OF TMREX
NATIONAL, EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRUISAL REPORT
Selection of Curriculu and Co muter Laboratorv Schools
1.          Some 200 curriculum laboratory schools would be selected for field
testing the curriculum and materials to be developed under the proposed
project. It is intended that the schools selected would be representative of
the broad range of schools, provinces, and regions throughout the country.
The selection would include 98 primary schools, 14 basic schools (primary and
middle comb..ned), 38 middle schools, and 50 general secondary schools (about
36 of which would include a middle school). In addition to the curriculum
laboratory schools, 53 general secondary schools would be selected to pilot
test the planned computer education component of the proposed project.
2.          The criteria for school selection are as follows:
Curriculum Laboratory Schools
- All seven political regions of the country would be represented;
- For logistical management purposes, schools would be
concentrated such that only two provinces would be included
per region;
- Each province from which schools are to be selected would have a
university Faculty of Education with which the testing
program could be associated;
- The urban vs rural relationship of school selection would be
such that 302 of the primary schools, 202 of the middle
schools, and 152 of the secondary schools would be in rural
areas;
Computer Experimental Schools
- 25 of the general secondary schools in the computer education
pilot program would be selected from the curriculum schools;
- The remaining 28 computer schools would be selected on the basis
of four from each of the seven regions with the number
divided equally between general secondary schools and
Anatolia schools.
- Each school selected would have a minimum of 200 students in
grade 10, the level at which the program would be
implemented;
- The 53 schools selected would not have computer education
programs already in existence.



-50 -                             Annex 9
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NAIT ONAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAEF  APPRAISAL REPORT
PrimarY and Secondary Teacher Rducation Steerint Cbmmittees
1.          Two committees, the Primary Teacher Education Steering Committee
(PTESC) and the Secondary Teacher Education Steering Committee (STESC), would
be appointed by Y8K to provide broad guidance for the two respective pre-
service teacher education components. The committees would function at an
operational level, meeting about 4 times per year to review plans and
achievements for the respective components and advise Y8K's Project
Coordination Unit and the consultant teams on the implementation activities.
Additionally, the STESC would review and evaluate the eaculty of Education
sub-project proposals and make recommendations on selection of Faculties to
receive major development support under the proposed project and the extent of
funding for each.
2.          Each of the two steering committees would have eight members
representing the various areas/groups indicated below:
A. Primary Teacher Education Steerinft Committee
To be annointed by MOE:  MOE Directorate of Primary Education
A Provincial Inspectorate
A Primary School Principal
A Practicing Primary School Teacher
To be aDoointed by YoK:  Two Instructors from the PTCs
A Faculty of Education Professor (recognized
as a leader in primary teacher education)
A Member of the Y8K PCU
B. Secondary Teacher Education Steering Comnuittee
To be appointed by MOE:  MOE Directorate of Secondary Education
MOE Directorate of Inspection
A Secondary School Principal
A Practicing Secondary School Teacher
To be anpointed bv YoK:  Three Paculty of Education Professors (From
different institutions and areas of
specialization)
A Member of the Y8K PCU



- 51 -                         Annex 10
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATIO  DEELOMENT PMROJCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Criteria for Selection of Faculties of Education
ProDosal Submission Procedure
1.          All university Faculties of Education operating training programs
for the preparation of secondary school teachers and other education support
personnel, i.e., school librarians, guidance counselors, etc. would be
eligible to apply for financial and professional assistance under the National
Education Development Project. Each institution desiring to participate in
the program would submit to the Y8K Secretariat of Teacher Education a
proposal outlining its planned areas of development, estimated costs, and
rationale for support, and the planned time-frame of implementation in
accordance with guidelines to be made available by the YoK Project
Coordinating Unit. Proposals would be evaluated by a Secondary Teacher
Education Steering Committee to be formed by YoK with representation from the
central Ministry of Education, secondary school teachers, secondary school
principals, and university Faculties of Education, taking into account the
proposal evaluation criteria and tLe subject area and Regional coverage
concerns described below.
Subiect Area and Regional Coveraae
2.          Thirty teaching subject departments/programs would be selected in
10 university Paculties of Education (from a total of 190 departments in the
17 faculties) for major developmental support under the project. One subject
department/program would be selected in each of the seven remaining Paculties
(total of seven programs) for limited support under the project as preparation
for expanded participation in subsequent operations of Y8K.
3.          To the extent possible, support would be provided for developing
three major areas of teaching emphasis in each of the first 10 Faculties
selected such that each, or most, of the subject areas (from those in greatest
demand/need) would be supported in at least three of the 10 respective
faculties.
4.          An attempt will be made to balance Faculty selection Regionally
(for those institutions to receive major development supporr) such that, to
the extent possible, one university Paculty of Education would be selected
from each region, except the Marmara Region from which two would be selected
and the Central Anatolia Region from which three would be selected due to the
large number of institutions in the two latter regions (See Table 1 below).
Provosal Evaluation Criteria
5.          Basic Criteria and Other Factors to Consider for Selection of the
First Ten Institutions (others to be added as agreed between YOK and the
Bank):



- 52                           Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PRmJECT
(a)   Demonstrated potential for growth and leadership in the respective
areas of emphasis proposed for strengthening:
(b)   An acceptable/viable plan for further development in the program
areas proposed;
(c)   Qualified faculty members (based on subject specializations, level
and recency of training, experience, and past performance) in the
proposed areas of emphasis to be developed and in selected support
areas;
(d)   Record of enrollments in proposed areas of emphasis in 1988-89 by
degree level (should be high enough for a critical mass of
students - at least 200 in all four years of the program), number
of graduates in the areas in 1988 and 1989 (minimum of 30 each
year), and types/levels of degrees offered through the program(s)
proposed for development; i.e., B.A., M.A., and Ph.D.
(e)   Plans for development: The Faculty would propose four or five
areas for desired support, in order of priority, to allow
selection flexibility in meeting conditions of paras. 3 and 4
above;
Table 1: Faculties of Education: Regional/City Location and Enrollments
(1988-89)
Region                      University Name         Location          Education
Enrollment
1. Marmara                     Bogazici              Istanbul               701
Marmara               Istanbul            3,909
Uludag                Bursa               1,403
Uludag                Balikesir           1,410
2. Agean                       Dokuz Bylul           Izmir                2,121
3. Mediterranean               Cukurova              Adana                  660
4. Central Anatolia            Anadolu               Eskishir             1,028
Ankara               Ankara                1,106
Gazi                 Ankara               4,623
Hacettepe            Ankara               1,947
Orta Dogu Tek        Ankara               1,450
Selcuk               Konya                2,471
5. Black Sea                   Karadeniz             Trabzon              1,382
Ondokuz Mayis         Samsun              1,920
6. Eastern Anatolia            Ataturk               Ezurum               4,816
Inonu                Malatya                377
7. So.Eastern Anatol.          Dicle                 Diyarbakir           1,731



- 53 -                        Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NATIONAL R WCATION DRVELOWPMET PROJECT
Contract Awards
6.          A contract would be made between YoK and the university Faculties
of Education selected to participate in the program, specifying the
development activities to be supported under project funding, ensuring
university provision of required counterpart funds allocated by SPO/Y8K for
the agreed facility renovation and equipment installation and the assignment
of faculty members as proposed and agreed in Y8R's approval of the sub-
project. The University or Faculty of Education would also agree in the
contract to implement the revised and/or developed curricula/programs, the
basic guidelines of which would be prepared jointly by the Secondary Teacher
Education Steering Committee (STESC)) and the consultant team, with input from
a subject panel (for each major subject area) comprising a minimum of one
subject area representative from each participating Faculty for the respective
teacher education subject areas to be developed.
i'



54                               Annex 11
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Iplementation Schedule and Action Plan
Fiscal Year   F YY91    F PY92 !  FPY93 I PY94 ' FY95 '?  FY96 I PY97
Calendar Year "90' CY91 ' CY92 ' CY93 ' CY94 ! CY95 I CY96 "'97'
'3'4'1'2!3!4'1'2'3'4'1'.2:3!4'1!2'3!4:1'2'3'4'1'2'3'4'1'.2',
A.  Ministry   of  Educ.  : g  *  '  '  '  ' a  ' a  : a  a  : a  ' a  a  ' a  '  : a  : s  :  :  a
T.A. TORs          :                     *            * a a a a a
Recruitment/Negot.:-:  : : '  :  : : : : : ' '   : : : : ' ' :   ' : : a         a
Consultant Serv. : : -:- - - - - '- - -'- - -'-'- - -'
Fellowships                :             : - -          ' : : : '  : : : '  '
Trng. Comp. Teach.:    : ,     : . .          :a
Trng. Curr. Teach.:   a a ' ' : : :-          ' a  s  a a  a
Constr. Drawings  :- -       :   :   a a a s
Bidding/Evaluation  : :: : : , ' ' : a   : : a          : : : a       ' a :  ' a
Constr./Renovation: : : :-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-,-  a a : a :   : a a a
Bquipmnt Specs.   -  : :-aa: :           ' ' :-:-: a  : ,   :' : : : : :   : a
Bidding Doc6e       :-      :                           
Bidding/Evaluation:  -:   a a                         ' a      * a        ' a
Contr. & Delivery  : : :.    :    :  -:-:-           - a
B. Council of H. E.               :    
T.A.  TORE s            :   a   a   :   :   :   a   a   a   :   a   a   a   a   a *  a   a   a   a   *   a   a   a   a
Recruitment/Negot.:-  :                           a
Consultant Serv.  : '-:::::- :-,:                                             a a
Fellowships        : a   ::::: - -                                        a
Trng. Pri. Te.Trs.: : : :            as
Renovation Drwgs. :        -:-' ' :      , a a m a a a
Implem. Renovation: a a a    a a a a a a s
Equipment Specs.  : a m a a a m
Bidding DOCs.      a a a a    asa
Bidding/Evaluation: a   : a a s a                 :   :            ' a a a
Contr.  &   Delivery   :  : a   a   :    - a a:   a  a   :       '   ' a   a   a   a   a
Board Presentation    :                            Project Completion          a   a
Closing Date           :



-55_                              Anne-  12
hEPUBLIC OP TURKEY
NUTIOWUL EB)UCAION DBVBELPMRNT PROJBCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
IERD Piscal                 Disbursements              Disbursements Profile
Year and          Semester            Cumulative   This Project   Country Avg.
Semester               --- US$ millions            --------   ------------  
1991
1st            2.3                  2.3            2.5           0.0
2nd            2.3                  4.6            5.0           3.0
1992
lst           12.4                 17.0           18.8           7.0
2nd           12.4                 29.4           32.6          12.0
1993
lst           14.0                 43.4          48.1           ;9.0
2nd           14.0                 57.4           63.6          27.0
1994
1st           10.8                 68.2           75.6          37.0
2nd           10.8                 79.0           87.6          51.0
1995
1st            4.7                 83.7          92.8           64.0
2nd            4.7                 88.4           98.0          77.0
1996
1st            0.6                 89.0           98.6          92.0
2nd            0.6                 89.5           99.2         100.0
1997
1st            0.4                 89.9          99.7            --
2nd            0.3                 90.2          100.0           --
a/   The profile shows cumulative disbursements in percentages.
k/   The profile was constructed using historical data as of March 10, 1988.
The disbursement profile of this proposed project is one year longer
than the country average due to the complexity of the project.



- 56 -                               Annex 13
REPUBLIC OP TLUREY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEVE'2DYQP_lX  J_ECT
Proiect Nana*ement Structure and Punctions
:                   :-------
:Functions and      :Management Structure
:Responsibilities
a                   a
*                   a
----------                                 -----------------__ _
:Policy Formulation :    a Ministry of Educ.'                            Council of
:and Coordination   a    a   and Youth       :                        Higher Education
(MOE)                                      (Y8K)
:Managemnt Units---------- ------------
:Trog  Inered
* , , , ~~-              -- -- -- -- - --                -- ,--- ---- --- ---
:Poect  Adior.O Project                                          Higherscrtay       Councilanfo
:Reavaeraaip        '                                               a        a. aeac
:SprovieIteo ragencty:        ----------- (MOE)---*-*---------
'Managermedt Orgnizs: '       -----------------                  ------------------_e
:Serve  s hanntelmd   :    :-Cne  fo*eerh                             ertra
:Funds ~  ~ an  prvd  --.Vc&Tc   u.adEpomn
:F rs     Lin   Supv         :--- - - - - -                         -- - - - - - -
:Evlaino   rj:Project Adioy :C  ooe      d            Project '     ihrCucoord
aemsean Aavise,       and,        (Mome                         :   eunti Y          :
'Prvid  Itergeny':   ---------------------                 :------------------:
:Coordination, eval.
',Inermd. Oganzs::'    ,--------- ME----------            --------- YK----------
:ImrPlemetaton Pofet :       'n  eeomn   n':frTahrEu. 
:Punds  and    atems           Sub-Prect                              Sub-project
,Pirs  lineSupv.&   -------------------,---               --@--------_-_-------
:Execuationgo Agencie      . : de Proes. Coode Cr.                  Unv Projcutie Coor.f
Itm   an Aciite                                                              a  nt(O)X  --   :--  nt(8)1
,~~~~~~~2  Fim  Rai & TVCr                                       dcto
3.  InSrvc Tn Dp.                       2.  Prmr   ece
.~ ~ ~~         ~4 Adiitrto  Deat                               Trg  Insitte
L                   a ,e:---------MOE---------   '            : :---------Y8Kn  ----
Advitory FuPnctin   a    : Undescrective                              CoAnctiita  for :a
'Exdeuting atece        a M.Eu.Re.mD. o  Educ.                  1. Unv TeachrEucatiesonf
Lanaee t oAunhoits ----- aJ ThaCsaelctdatiitaieyiah
ADvisorJ~~~~~~ aucto   a t                              *                        a    a epcieitreir   raiaiD 



Amnex  14-
- 57 -                         Page 1 of 3
R~ULTC OPTUKE
NAYTIONAL RDUCA TE  RNLNI    PRO3NCY
Technical Assistanme Protra
Program Component                  ConsAUltats                PellX wsta^
and Action Area              Number  Duration  Total   Number  Duration  Total
(m)(am)  (mm) (tn)    , i)
A. Ministry of Education
ERDC Consultants
Textbook Fin./Plg Spec.      1      2.5       2.5
Management Specialist        1      9.0       9.0
Organizational Spec.         1      3.5       3.5
Trainers (Induction Courses)2       1.5       3.0
Distribution Specialist      1      7.5      7.5
Curric. & Publishing Spec.  1      18.0      18.0
Technical Services Spec.    1      18.0      18.0
Illustration/Design Spec.   1       9.0      9.0
Field Testing Spes./Trainer 1       2.0      2.0
Test and Evaluation Spec.   2       7.5      15.0
Technical Development Spec. 1       9.0       9.0
Special Studies Experts      6      4.0     24.0
Special Study Expert         1      6.5      6.5
Laboratory Schools Expert   1      27.0     27.0
EMDC Fellowships
Deputy Director                                         1      1.5       1.S
HeRA, Curric. & Publishing                              1      2.0       2.0
Subject Editors                                         7      6.0     42.0
Book Designers                                          4      9.0     36.0
Head, Testing & Evaluaticin                             1      2.0      2.0
Head, Technical Development                             1      2.0      2.0
Head, Technical Servk..ib                               1      2.0      2.0
Head, Administration & Fin.                             1      2.0      2.0
Computer Typesetters                                    4      2.0      8.0
Photographer                                            2      6.0      12.0
Testing and Eval. Specs.                               12     11.0    132.0
Production Managers                                     2      9.0     18.0
ERC Consultants
Resource Center Spec.        2      6.0      12.0
In-Service Trng. Specs.      3      6.0     18.0
Subject Area Specialists    3       6.0     18.0
ERC Pellowships
Resource Center Directors                               4      3.0      12.0



- 58 -                         Annex-14
Page 2 of 3
RNPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DVELOMENT PROJECT
Program Component                  Consultants                  Fellowships
and Action Area              Number  Duration  Total   Number  Duration  Total
(mm)     (am)              (mm)     (mm)
A. Ministry of Education (Cont.)
PRTVC Consultants
Proj. Mgmt/Mat. Des. Spec.  1        7.0      7.0                                         P
Educational Tech. Spec.      1       7.0      7.0
Engr. Services/Trng. Spec.  1        7.0      7.0
B. FRTVC PellowshiDs
Director                                                 1      2.0      2.0
Materials Designers                                      8      9.0     81.0
Systems Analysts                                         8      9.0     81.0
Equipment Operators                                      7      3.0     21.0
Systems Engineers                                        6      6.0     36.0
Project Managers                                        4       6.0     24.0
Video Specialists                                        4      9.0     36.0
Maintenance Specialists                                  2      5.0     10.0
Manamement Coi.sultants
MIS Specialist               3       9.0     27.0
Research/Plng. Spec. (APK)  2       12.0     24.0
Management Specialists       4      12.0     48.0
Manaaement Fellowships
MIS T.¢velopment Staff                                   2      6.0     12.0
MIS Staff from Provinces                                10      1.0     10.0
MIS Staff                                                1      2.5      2.5
Central Management Staff                                4       9.0     36.0
Central Management Staff                                3       3.0      9.0
Central Inspectorate Staff                               5      2.0     10.0
Central Mgmt. Staff (Local)                             8      12.0     96.0
Vo-Tech R&D Center Consults.
Organiz. Mgmt Specialist    1       12.0     12.0
Research Specialist          1      12.0     12.0
Projects Management Spec.   1       12.0     12.0
Vo-Tech R&D Center Fellows.
Curric. Development Spec.                                3     12.0     36.0
Research & Planning Spec.                                3     12.0     36.0
Design & Development Spec.                               3     12.0     36.0
Technical Publications Spec.                             3     12.0     36.0
Testing and Eval. Spec.                                  2     12.'j    24.0
Educational Tech. Spec.                                 3      12.0     36.0
Short-Term Study                                        12      3.0     36.0
Short-Ter- Study                                         1      2.0      2.0



- 59 -                         Annex 14
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLIC OP TURKEY
NAlTIONAL EDCAT IO   DEVELOPMENT al09
Program Component                  Consultants                 Fellowships
and Action Area              Number  Duration  Total   Number  Duration  Total
(mm)     (mm)              (mm)     (mm)
B. Council of Higher Education
PTCs Consultants
Mathematics Educ. Spec.      1      18.0     18.0
Science Education Spec.      1      18.0     18.0
Social Studies Educ. Spec.  1       18.0     18.0
Music & Arts Educ. Spec.    1       18.0     18.0
Local Cons. (above specs.)  4      24.0      96.0
PTCs Pellowships
M.A. Degree Candidates                                  50     18.0    900.0
Doctoral Degree Candidates                             25      33.0    825.0
Pac. of Educ. Consultants
Natural Science Spec.        2      12.0     24.0
Subject Specialists          8      12.0     96.0
Short-Term Specialists      20      0.5      10.0
Lang. Trng. Spec. (Local)   2      36.0      72.0
Pac. of Edue. Pellowships
Post-Doctoral Study                                    20      11.0    220.0
Doctoral Study                                         37      33.0   1221.0



- 60 -Ann2x 1
RP LICOFTRE
STAF  APPRAI SL REPOT
Dinbu8emutacq    bi Faudia  Dowi-co and Smater 1/
(US$ Millions)
Semester            IBRD              NoR             Y8K           Total
1                  2.3              2.3             0.2             4.8
2                  2.3              2.3             0.2             4.8
3                 12.4              9.1             1.0            22.5
4                 12.4              9.2             1.0            22.6
5                 14.0             12.8             1.1            27.9
6                 14.0             12.8             1.1            27.9
7                 10.8              9.7             1.1            21.6
8                 10.8              9.7             1.1            21.6
9                  4.7              4.8             0.5            10.0
10                  4.7              4.8             0.5            10.0
11                  0.6              0.4             0.2             1.2
12                  0.5              0.4             0.2             1.1
13                  0.4              0.2             0.1             0.7
14                  0.3_             0.2             -               0.5
TOTALS                 90.2             78.7             8.3           177.2
VJ Includes contingencies



- 61 -                           j      16
REPUBLIC OF TOUMKY
NATIONAL EDUCATION DEVELOMNOT POJECT
TAXFF APPRASIAL REPORT
Bibliosranhv of Materials in Office Files
1.    Statistical Yearbook of Turkev. 1987, Prime Ministry State Institute of
Statistics.
2.    Statistics of National Education. Youth. and Sports. 1986-1987, Ministry
of Education.
3.    Statistics of Higher Education. 1984-1985, Council of Higher Education.
4.    Statistics of Hiaher Education. 1986-1987, Council of Higher Education.
5.    National Education Statistics: PrimarY Bducation. 1985-1986, Prime
Ministry State Institute of Statistics.
6.    Nationl Education Statistics: General Secondary Education. 1985-1986,
Prime Ministry State Institute of Statistics.
7.    National Education Statistics: Vocational and Technical Education. 1984-
1985, Prime Ministry State Institute of Statistics.
8.    National Education Statistics: Adult Education. 1984-1985, Prime
Ministry State Institute of Statistics.
9.    Europe. Middle East. and North Africa Region Pouulation Projections
1988-89, Population and Human Resources Department, The World Bank.
10.   Education and Training Sector Survev. Volumes I. II. III. IV. and V,
Education and Manpower Development Division, Europe, Middle East, and
North Africa Region, The World Bank.
11.   Staff Appraisal Report. Second Industrial Training Proiect. Republic of
Turkev. 1988, The World Bank.
12.   Develoxments in Education: 1986-88. National Report of Turkey,
International Conference on Education, 41st Session, Geneva, 1988.
13.   Yuksekogretimdeki Gelismeler (Historical Develotment of Higher
Education), 1981-1988, Council of Higher Education, Ankara, Turkey,
1988.
14.   Fundamental National Education Law. Law Number 1739, Ministry of
National Education, June 14, 1973.
15.   The Hiaher Education Law. Law Number 2547, Council of Higher Education,
November 4, 1981.
16.   Strategv and Method in Educational Reform, (The official guide for
education reform in Turkey), Strategy and Coordination Commissior. for
National Education Reform, June, 1971.



MAP SECTION



S           |                                              ,             t                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 2403'
25-                                             30                                                                                             40e                                           IERD
BULGARIA    r E _                                               
IEdilerJr0ell                                                          Inetbolv   S. Sop                                                                   U.  S. S. R.
U,                 El~~~~~o.dinmo                                   an I,ce
40~~~~~~~~~  CenokIlule~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U.41
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .P URL ICp
d_ mi  liksiAilike                                             AntOly
Aromur             r                                         O ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,00  200  300
L Iul OE E                   L
- 35 ~T UR K EY                                                                                         s Y R I A N   mo,, ,, .d   r m
NATIONAL EDUCATION                                            CYPRUS                              A R A B                              @   1r-avz-4j
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                             R E P U B LIl C                              BL
MlNISTRY OF ROUCASOON [MOEI:
*    Edaootioo Rmord, and DrsenWpnrn. Cenlo, (EROCl                                                            RPOLAND,)
09   Educelion Rsoun oo Canlonh (ERC UI                                                                                                           S        R 
EdonotiOn AeOdRmy nd L RnBIL Trrin1ng CatIntriEH                                                                                    .       S        5 
eL   COUNOL OF HIGHER ERCCAXION (TO}                                                                                  _<E                               3     
UI   ni   eslFoeRltin of RdoeeIion ./  /
_ ROADSYeec riin  clgs^  ROMdANIA N- < t,
RIVERS                                                                                                            <      --             l>,Se       
e    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                               %r vt -      Th       /ckS
-*-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                e>                                                                    5, r>_
.                                                                                 G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REE<:e  --.     ,j_    REPUE,LIC
is-                                                                                                                             1_RIAN) IRAQ |           IF
35~            ~RRTR                               CYPRIJScij~'   REPURLI91en
De.,z  nyo                                                             yarba                      rt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOCMER10



